risk factors 6 risk factors we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. in addition, we and our clients are affected by global economic conditions. the following sections discuss many, but not all, of the risks and uncertainties that may affect our future performance, but is not intended to be all-inclusive. any of the risks described below could have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows, and could therefore have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. additionally risks not currently known to us or that we now deem immaterial may also harm us and negatively affect your investment. risks related to our business our operating results could be negatively impacted by global economic conditions. our business is impacted by general economic conditions and trends, in the u.s and abroad. economic growth continues to be both weak and uneven in many parts of the world. in addition, problems continue with government deficit spending in the u.s. and other countries, ongoing uncertainty in global trade, and high levels of sovereign debt. these conditions could negatively and materially affect future demand for our products and services. such difficulties could include the ability to maintain client retention, wallet retention and consulting utilization rates, achieve contract value and consulting backlog growth, attract attendees and exhibitors to our events or obtain new clients. such developments could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we face significant competition and our failure to compete successfully could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. we face direct competition from a significant number of independent providers of information products and services, including information available on the internet free of charge. we also compete indirectly against consulting firms and other information providers, including electronic and print media companies, some of which may have greater financial, information gathering and marketing resources than we do. these indirect competitors could also choose to compete directly with us in the future. in addition, limited barriers to entry exist in the markets in which we do business. as a result, new competitors may emerge and existing competitors may start to provide additional or complementary services. additionally, technological advances may provide increased competition from a variety of sources. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete against current and future competitors and our failure to do so could result in loss of market share, diminished value in our products and services, reduced pricing and increased marketing expenditures. furthermore, we may not be successful if we cannot compete effectively on quality of research and analysis, timely delivery of information, customer service, and the ability to offer products to meet changing market needs for information and analysis, or price. we may not be able to maintain our existing products and services. we operate in a rapidly evolving market, and our success depends upon our ability to deliver high quality and timely research and analysis to our clients. any failure to continue to provide credible and reliable information that is useful to our clients could have a material adverse effect on future business and operating results. further, if our predictions prove to be wrong or are not substantiated by appropriate research, our reputation may suffer and demand for our products and services may decline. in addition, we must continue to improve our methods for delivering our products and services in a cost-effective manner. failure to increase and improve our electronic delivery capabilities could adversely affect our future business and operating results. we may not be able to enhance and develop our existing products and services, or introduce the new products and services that are needed to remain competitive. the market for our products and services is characterized by rapidly changing needs for 6 information and analysis on the it industry as a whole. the development of new products is a complex and time-consuming process. nonetheless, to maintain our competitive position, we must continue to anticipate the needs of our client organizations, enhance and improve our products and services, develop or acquire new products and services, deliver all products and services in a timely manner, and appropriately position and price new products and services relative to the marketplace and our costs of producing them. any failure to achieve successful client acceptance of new products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. additionally, significant delays in new product or services releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. we depend on renewals of subscription-based services and sales of new subscription-based services for a significant portion of our revenue, and our failure to renew at historical rates or generate new sales of such services could lead to a decrease in our revenues. a large portion of our success depends on our ability to generate renewals of our subscription-based research products and services and new sales of such products and services, both to new clients and existing clients. these products and services constituted 71% and 70% of our revenues for 2013 and 2012 , respectively. generating new sales of our subscription-based products and services, both to new and existing clients, is often a time consuming process. if we are unable to generate new sales, due to competition or other factors, our revenues will be adversely affected. our research subscription agreements are generally for twelve months, although we do enter into multi-year agreements in certain circumstances. our ability to maintain contract renewals is subject to numerous factors, including the following: delivering high-quality and timely analysis and advice to our clients; understanding and anticipating market trends and the changing needs of our clients; and delivering products and services of the quality and timeliness necessary to withstand competition. additionally, as we continue to adjust our products and service offerings to meet our clients' continuing needs, we may shift the type and pricing of our products which may impact client renewal rates. while our research client retention rate was 82% at december 31, 2013 and 83% at december 31, 2012 , there can be no guarantee that we will continue to maintain this rate of client renewals. we depend on non-recurring consulting engagements and our failure to secure new engagements could lead to a decrease in our revenues. consulting segment revenues constituted 18% of our total revenues in 2013 and 19% in 2012. consulting engagements typically are project-based and non-recurring. our ability to replace consulting engagements is subject to numerous factors, including the following: delivering consistent, high-quality consulting services to our clients; tailoring our consulting services to the changing needs of our clients; and our ability to match the skills and competencies of our consulting staff to the skills required for the fulfillment of existing or potential consulting engagements. any material decline in our ability to replace consulting arrangements could have an adverse impact on our revenues and our financial condition. the profitability and success of our conferences, symposia and events could be adversely affected by external factors beyond our control. the market for desirable dates and locations for conferences, symposia and events is highly competitive. if we cannot secure desirable dates and locations for our conferences, symposia and events their profitability could suffer, and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. in addition, because our events are scheduled in advance and held at specific locations, the success of these events can be affected by circumstances outside of our control, such as labor strikes, transportation shutdowns and travel restrictions, economic slowdowns, reductions in government spending, terrorist attacks, weather, natural disasters, and other occurrences impacting the global, regional, or national economy, the occurrence of any of which could negatively impact the success of the event. additionally, a significant recovery in the global economy could make our ability to procure space for our events and efforts to keep associated costs down more challenging. our sales to governments are subject to appropriations and may be terminated. we derive significant revenues from contracts with the u.s. government and its respective agencies, numerous state and local governments and their respective agencies, and foreign governments and their agencies. at december 31, 2013 and 2012, approximately $283.0 million and $255.0 million, 7 respectively, of our research contract value and consulting backlog was attributable to governments. we believe substantially all of the amount attributable to governments at december 31, 2013 will be filled in 2014. our u.s. government contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations by the u.s. congress to fund the agencies contracting for our services. additionally, our contracts at the state and local levels, as well as foreign government contracts, are subject to various governmental authorizations and funding approvals and mechanisms. in general, most if not all of these contracts may be terminated at any time without cause or penalty ( termination for convenience ). similarly, contracts with domestic and foreign governments and their agencies are subject to increasingly complex bidding procedures and intense competition. should appropriations for the governments and agencies that contract with us be curtailed, or should government contracts be terminated for convenience, we may experience a significant loss of segment and consolidated revenues. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel which could jeopardize the quality of our products and services. our success depends heavily upon the quality of our senior management, research analysts, consultants, sales and other key personnel. we face competition for the limited pool of these qualified professionals from, among others, technology companies, market research firms, consulting firms, financial services companies and electronic and print media companies, some of which have a greater ability to attract and compensate these professionals. some of the personnel that we attempt to hire are subject to non-compete agreements that could impede our short-term recruitment efforts. any failure to retain key personnel or hire and train additional qualified personnel as required to support the evolving needs of clients or growth in our business, could adversely affect the quality of our products and services, as well as future business and operating results. we may not be able to maintain the equity in our brand name. we believe that our gartner brand, including our independence, is critical to our efforts to attract and retain clients and that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition increases. we may expand our marketing activities to promote and strengthen the gartner brand and may need to increase our marketing budget, hire additional marketing and public relations personnel, and expend additional sums to protect our brand and otherwise increase expenditures to create and maintain client brand loyalty. if we fail to effectively promote and maintain the gartner brand, or incur excessive expenses in doing so, our future business and operating results could be adversely impacted. our international operations expose us to a variety of operational risks which could negatively impact our future revenue and growth. we have clients in 85 countries and a substantial amount of our revenues is earned outside of the u.s. our operating results are subject to the risks inherent in international business activities, including general political and economic conditions in each country, changes in market demand as a result of tariffs and other trade barriers, challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations, changes in regulatory requirements, compliance with numerous foreign laws and regulations, differences between u.s. and foreign tax rates and laws, and the difficulty of enforcing client agreements, collecting accounts receivable and protecting intellectual property rights in international jurisdictions. furthermore, we rely on local distributors or sales agents in some international locations. if any of these arrangements are terminated by our agent or us, we may not be able to replace the arrangement on beneficial terms or on a timely basis, or clients of the local distributor or sales agent may not want to continue to do business with us or our new agent. our international operations expose us to volatility in foreign currency exchange rates. revenues earned outside the u.s. are typically transacted in local currencies, which may fluctuate significantly against the u.s. dollar. while we may use forward exchange contracts to a limited extent to seek to mitigate foreign currency risk, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. natural disasters or geo-political events may disrupt our business. a major weather event, terrorist attack, earthquake, flood, volcanic activity, or other catastrophic disaster could significantly disrupt our operations. such events could cause delays in initiating or completing sales, impede delivery of our products and services to our clients, disrupt other critical client-facing and business processes, or dislocate our critical internal functions and personnel. our corporate headquarters is located approximately 30 miles from new york city, and we have an operations center located in ft. myers, florida, a hurricane-prone area. we also operate in numerous international locations, and we have offices in a number of major cities across the globe. abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose a risk of general economic disruption in affected countries and regions, which may negatively impact our sales and increase our operating costs. additionally, these conditions also may add uncertainty to the timing and budget decisions of our clients. such events could significantly harm our ability to conduct normal business operations and negatively impact our financial condition and operating results. internet and critical internal computer system failures, cyber-attacks, or compromises of our systems or security could damage our reputation and harm our business. a significant portion of our business is conducted over the internet and we rely heavily on computer systems. a cyber-attack, widespread internet failure, or disruption of our critical information technology systems through viruses or other events could cause delays in initiating or completing sales, impede delivery of our products and services to our clients, disrupt other critical client-facing or business processes, or dislocate our critical internal functions. such events could 8 significantly harm our ability to conduct normal business operations and negatively impact our financial condition and operating results. we take steps generally acknowledged as standard for the industry to secure our management information systems, including our computer systems, intranet, proprietary websites, email and other telecommunications and data networks, and we carefully scrutinize the security of outsourced website and service providers prior to retaining their services. however, the security measures implemented by us or by our outside service providers may not be effective and our systems (and those of our outside service providers) may be vulnerable to theft, loss, damage and interruption from a number of potential sources and events, including unauthorized access or security breaches, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, power loss, or other disruptive events. our reputation, brand, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected if, as a result of a significant cyber event or other technology-related catastrophe, our operations are disrupted or shutdown; our confidential, proprietary information is stolen or disclosed; we incur costs or are required to pay fines in connection with stolen customer, employee, or other confidential information; we are required to dedicate significant resources to system repairs or increase cyber security protection; or we otherwise incur significant litigation or other costs as a result of these occurrences. we may experience outages and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure. our increasing user traffic and complexity of our products and services demand more computing power. we have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to maintain data centers and equipment and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle increased traffic on our websites. however, any inefficiencies or operational failures could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience, resulting in damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, potentially harming our financial condition and operating results. our outstanding debt obligation could impact our financial condition or future operating results. we have a credit arrangement that provides for a five-year, $150.0 million term loan and a $600.0 million revolving credit facility (the 2013 credit agreement ). the credit arrangement contains an expansion feature by which the term loan and revolving facility may be increased, at our option and under certain conditions, by up to an additional $250.0 million in the aggregate. at december 31, 2013, we had a total of $200.0 million outstanding under the 2013 credit agreement. the affirmative, negative and financial covenants of the 2013 credit agreement could limit our future financial flexibility. additionally, a failure to comply with these covenants could result in acceleration of all amounts outstanding under the arrangement, which would materially impact our financial condition unless accommodations could be negotiated with our lenders. no assurance can be given that we would be successful in doing so in this current financial climate, or that any accommodations that we were able to negotiate would be on terms as favorable as those presently contained in the credit arrangement. the associated debt service costs of this credit arrangement could impair our future operating results. the outstanding debt may limit the amount of cash or additional credit available to us, which could restrain our ability to expand or enhance products and services, respond to competitive pressures or pursue future business opportunities requiring substantial investments of additional capital. we may require additional cash resources which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. we believe that our existing cash balances, projected cash flow from operations, and the borrowing capacity we have under our revolving credit facility will be sufficient to fund our plans for the next 12 months and the foreseeable future. however, we may require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions, implementation of our strategy and stock repurchase program, to repay indebtedness or to pursue future business opportunities requiring substantial investments of additional capital. if our existing financial resources are insufficient to satisfy our requirements, we may seek additional borrowings. prevailing credit market conditions may negatively affect debt availability and cost, and, as a result, financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. in addition, the incurrence of additional indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could require us to agree to operating and financial covenants that would further restrict our operations. if we are unable to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights our competitive position may be harmed. we rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, confidentiality, non-compete and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property rights. despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized third parties may obtain and use technology or other information that we regard as proprietary. our intellectual property rights may not survive a legal challenge to their validity or provide significant protection for us. the laws of certain countries, particularly in emerging markets, do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. accordingly, we may not be able to protect our intellectual property against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. our employees are subject to non-compete agreements. when the non-competition period expires, former employees may compete against us. if a former employee chooses to compete against us prior to the expiration of the non-competition period, we seek to enforce these non-compete provisions but there is no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts. additionally, there can be no assurance that another party will not assert that we have infringed its intellectual property rights. 9 we have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions and strategic investments, which could involve substantial risks. we have made and may continue to make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses that offer complementary products and services. the risks involved in each acquisition or investment include the possibility of paying more than the value we derive from the acquisition, dilution of the interests of our current stockholders or decreased working capital, increased indebtedness, the assumption of undisclosed liabilities and unknown and unforeseen risks, the ability to retain key personnel of the acquired company, the inability to integrate the business of the acquired company, the time to train the sales force to market and sell the products of the acquired business, the potential disruption of our ongoing business and the distraction of management from our business. the realization of any of these risks could adversely affect our business. additionally, we face competition in identifying acquisition targets and consummating acquisitions. we face risks related to litigation. we are, and may in the future be, subject to a variety of legal actions, such as employment, breach of contract, intellectual property-related, and business torts, including claims of unfair trade practices and misappropriation of trade secrets. given the nature of our business, we are also subject to defamation (including libel and slander), negligence, or other claims relating to the information we publish. regardless of the merits, any such claim can affect our reputation, and responding to any such claim could be time consuming, result in costly litigation and require us to enter into settlements, royalty and licensing agreements which may not be offered or available on reasonable terms. if a successful claim is made against us and we fail to settle the claim on reasonable terms, our business, brand, results of operations or financial position could be materially and adversely affected. we face risks related to taxation . we operate in numerous jurisdictions around the world. the company recognizes tax expense based upon the applicable tax rates and tax laws of the countries where income is generated. a substantial amount of our income is generated outside of the u.s. and is taxed at rates significantly less than the u.s. statutory income tax rate of 35%. the u.s. and many other countries in which the company operates are considering proposals which may significantly change the taxation of income earned outside of the u.s. our future effective tax rate, financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by changes in law or if more of our income is earned in higher taxing jurisdictions and less is earned in lower taxing jurisdictions. in addition, our tax filings for various years are subject to examination by taxing authorities and during the ordinary course of business, we are under audit by one or more tax authorities. although we believe that our tax filings are reasonable, the final resolution of tax audits may be different from what is reflected in our historical tax provisions and accruals and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. we operate in a number of countries, and as a result we are required to comply with numerous, and in many cases, changing international and u.s. federal, state and local laws and regulations. as a result, we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program which includes the creation of appropriate policies defining employee behavior that mandate adherence to laws, employee training, annual affirmations, monitoring and enforcement. however, if any employee fails to comply with, or intentionally disregards, any of these laws or regulations, a range of liabilities could result for the employee and for the company, including, but not limited to, significant penalties and fines, sanctions and/or litigation, and the expenses associated with defending and resolving any of the foregoing, any of which could have a material impact on our business. risks related to our common stock our operating results may fluctuate from period to period and may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors or guidance we have given, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate in the future as a result of many factors, including the timing of the execution of research contracts, the extent of completion of consulting engagements, the timing of symposia and other events, the amount of new business generated, the mix of domestic and international business, currency fluctuations, changes in market demand for our products and services, the timing of the development, introduction and marketing of new products and services, and competition in the industry. an inability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flow, and achieve our forecasts, may impact our operating and other activities. the potential fluctuations in our operating results could cause period-to-period comparisons of operating results not to be meaningful and may provide an unreliable indication of future operating results. furthermore, our operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in the future or guidance we have given. if this occurs, the price of our stock would likely decline. our stock price may be impacted by factors outside of our control and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid. the trading price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to, among other factors, developments in the industries in which we do business, general economic conditions, general market conditions, changes in the nature and composition of our stockholder base, changes in securities analysts' recommendations 10 regarding our securities and our performance relative to securities analysts' expectations for any quarterly period, as well as other factors outside of our control. these factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our stock price. sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock in the public market by our current stockholders, or the threat that substantial sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease significantly or make it difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling stock. furthermore, we have various equity incentive plans that provide for awards in the form of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other stock-based awards which have the effect of adding shares of common stock into the public market. as of december 31, 2013, the aggregate number of shares of our common stock issuable pursuant to outstanding grants and awards under these plans was approximately 3.6 million shares (approximately 0.8 million of which have vested). in addition, approximately 6.4 million shares may be issued in connection with future awards under our equity incentive plans. shares of common stock issued under these plans are freely transferable without further registration under the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act ), except for any shares held by affiliates (as that term is defined in rule 144 under the securities act). we cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. interests of certain of our significant stockholders may conflict with yours . to our knowledge, as of december 31, 2013, and based upon publicly-available sec filings, five institutional investors each presently hold over 5% of our common stock. while no stockholder or institutional investor individually holds a majority of our outstanding shares, these significant stockholders may be able, either individually or acting together, to exercise significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation, adoption or amendment of equity plans and approval of significant transactions such as mergers, acquisitions, consolidations and sales or purchases of assets. in addition, in the event of a proposed acquisition of the company by a third party, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change of control in us. accordingly, the interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, or otherwise be in the best interests of us or all stockholders. our anti-takeover protections may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and delaware law may make it difficult for any party to acquire control of us in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. these provisions include: the ability of our board of directors to issue and determine the terms of preferred stock; advance notice requirements for inclusion of stockholder proposals at stockholder meetings; and the anti-takeover provisions of delaware law. these provisions could discourage or prevent a change of control or change in management that might provide stockholders with a premium to the market price of their common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 31 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate risk we have exposure to changes in interest rates arising from borrowings under our 2013 credit agreement. at december 31, 2013, we had $200.0 million outstanding under the 2013 credit agreement, which consisted of $144.4 million outstanding under the term loan and $55.6 million outstanding under the revolver. amounts borrowed under the 2013 credit agreement bear interest at a rate equal to, at gartner's option, either (1) the greatest of: the administrative agent's prime rate; the average rate on overnight federal funds plus 1/2 of 1% ; and the eurodollar rate (adjusted for statutory reserves) plus 1% , in each case plus a margin equal to between 0.25% and 0.75% depending on gartner's leverage ratio as of the end of the four consecutive fiscal quarters most recently ended, or (2) the eurodollar rate (adjusted for statutory reserves) plus a margin equal to between 1.25% and 1.75% , depending on gartner's leverage ratio as of the end of the four consecutive fiscal quarters most recently ended. we have an interest rate swap contract which effectively converts the floating base rate on the first $200.0 million of our borrowings to a 2.26% fixed rate. the company only hedges the base interest rate risk on the first $200.0 million of its outstanding borrowings. accordingly, we are exposed to interest rate risk on borrowings in excess of $200.0 million. a 25 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates could change pre-tax annual interest expense on the additional revolver borrowing capacity under the 2013 credit agreement (not including the expansion feature) by approximately $0.9 million. foreign currency risk for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, approximately 45% and 46% of our revenues, respectively, were derived from sales outside of the u.s. as a result, we conduct business in numerous currencies other than the u.s dollar. among the major foreign currencies in which we conduct business are the euro, the british pound, the japanese yen, the australian dollar, and the canadian dollar. our foreign currency exposure results in both translation risk and transaction risk: translation risk we are exposed to foreign currency translation risk since the functional currencies of our foreign operations are generally denominated in the local currency. translation risk arises since the assets and liabilities that we report for our foreign subsidiaries are translated into u.s. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet dates, and these exchange rates fluctuate over time. these foreign currency translation adjustments are deferred and are recorded as a component of stockholders' equity and do not impact our operating results. a measure of the potential impact of foreign currency translation on our condensed consolidated balance sheets can be determined through a sensitivity analysis of our cash and cash equivalents. at december 31, 2013, we had almost $424.0 million of cash and cash equivalents, with approximately 58% denominated in foreign currencies. if the foreign exchange rates of the major currencies in which we operate changed in comparison to the u.s. dollar by 10%, the amount of cash and cash equivalents we would have reported on december 31, 2013 would have increased or decreased by approximately $20.0 million. because our foreign subsidiaries generally operate in a local functional currency that differs from the u.s. dollar, revenues and expenses in these foreign currencies translate into higher or lower revenues and expenses in u.s. dollars as the u.s. dollar continuously weakens or strengthens against these other currencies. therefore, changes in exchange rates may affect our consolidated revenues and expenses (as expressed in u.s. dollars) from foreign operations. historically, this impact on our consolidated earnings has not been material since foreign currency movements in the major currencies in which we operate tend to impact our revenues and expenses fairly equally. transaction risk we also have foreign exchange transaction risk since foreign subsidiaries typically enter into transactions in the normal course of business that are denominated in foreign currencies that differ from the local functional currency in which the foreign subsidiary operates. we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to mitigate the effects of foreign currency transaction risk. these contracts are normally short term in duration and unrealized and realized gains and losses are recognized in current period earnings. at december 31, 2013, we had 89 outstanding foreign currency forward contracts with a total notional amount of approximately $61.0 million and an immaterial net unrealized loss. substantially all of these contracts matured by the end of january 2014. 31 credit risk financial instruments that potentially subject the company to concentration of credit risk consist primarily of short-term, highly liquid investments classified as cash equivalents, accounts receivable, and an interest rate swap contract. the majority of the company's cash and cash equivalents and its interest rate swap contract are with large investment grade commercial banks that are participants in the company's 2013 credit agreement. accounts receivable balances deemed to be collectible from customers have limited concentration of credit risk due to our diverse customer base and geographic dispersion.risk factors 6 risk factors we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. in addition, we and our clients are affected by global economic conditions. the following sections discuss many, but not all, of the risks and uncertainties that may affect our future performance, but is not intended to be all-inclusive. any of the risks described below could have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows, and could therefore have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. additionally risks not currently known to us or that we now deem immaterial may also harm us and negatively affect your investment. risks related to our business our operating results could be negatively impacted by global economic conditions. our business is impacted by general economic conditions and trends, in the u.s and abroad. u.s. economic data continues to be mixed, but the overall economy continues to grow and unemployment continues to fall. however, economic growth continues to be uneven globally, with continuing weakness across europe and emerging markets, as recent geopolitical events add to the uncertainty. these conditions could negatively and materially affect future demand for our products and services. such difficulties could include the ability to maintain client retention, wallet retention and consulting utilization rates, achieve contract value and consulting backlog growth, attract attendees and exhibitors to our events or obtain new clients. such developments could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we face significant competition and our failure to compete successfully could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. we face direct competition from a significant number of independent providers of information products and services, including information available on the internet free of charge. we also compete indirectly against consulting firms and other information providers, including electronic and print media companies, some of which may have greater financial, information gathering and marketing resources than we do. these indirect competitors could also choose to compete directly with us in the future. in addition, low barriers to entry exist in the markets in which we do business. as a result, new competitors may emerge and existing competitors may start to provide additional or complementary services. additionally, technological advances may provide increased competition from a variety of sources. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete against current and future competitors and our failure to do so could result in loss of market share, diminished value in our products and services, reduced pricing and increased marketing expenditures. furthermore, we may not be successful if we cannot compete effectively on quality of research and analysis, timely 6 delivery of information, customer service, and the ability to offer products to meet changing market needs for information and analysis, or price. we may not be able to maintain the quality of our existing products and services. we operate in a rapidly evolving market, and our success depends upon our ability to deliver high quality and timely research and analysis to our clients. any failure to continue to provide credible and reliable information that is useful to our clients could have a material adverse effect on future business and operating results. further, if our data, viewpoints, or predictions prove to be wrong or are not substantiated by appropriate research, our reputation may suffer and demand for our products and services may decline. in addition, we must continue to improve our methods for delivering our products and services in a cost-effective manner, including via the internet and mobile applications. failure to maintain state of the art electronic delivery capabilities could adversely affect our future business and operating results. we may not be able to enhance and develop our existing products and services, or introduce the new products and services that are needed to remain competitive. the market for our products and services is characterized by rapidly changing needs for information and analysis on the it industry as a whole. the development of new products is a complex and time-consuming process. nonetheless, to maintain our competitive position, we must continue to anticipate the needs of our client organizations, develop, enhance and improve our existing as well as new products and services to address those needs, deliver all products and services in a timely, user-friendly and state of the art manner, and appropriately position and price new products and services relative to the marketplace and our costs of developing them. any failure to achieve successful client acceptance of new products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. additionally, significant delays in new product or services releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. we depend on renewals of subscription-based services and sales of new subscription-based services for a significant portion of our revenue, and our failure to renew at historical rates or generate new sales of such services could lead to a decrease in our revenues. a large portion of our success depends on our ability to generate renewals of our subscription-based research products and services and new sales of such products and services, both to new clients and existing clients. these products and services constituted 72% and 71% of our total revenues for 2014 and 2013 , respectively. generating new sales of our subscription-based products and services, both to new and existing clients, is a challenging, costly, and often time consuming process. if we are unable to generate new sales, due to competition or other factors, our revenues will be adversely affected. the majority of our research subscription agreements are for twelve months. however, we do enter into multi-year agreements, which have been increasing in frequency. our ability to maintain contract renewals is subject to numerous factors, including the following: delivering high-quality and timely analysis and advice to our clients; understanding and anticipating market trends and the changing needs of our clients; and delivering products and services of the quality and timeliness necessary to withstand competition. additionally, as we continue to adjust our products and service offerings to meet our clients' continuing needs, we may shift the type and pricing of our products which may impact client renewal rates. while our research enterprise client retention rate was 85% at december 31, 2014 and 83% at december 31, 2013 , there can be no guarantee that we will continue to maintain this rate of client renewals. we depend on non-recurring consulting engagements and our failure to secure new engagements could lead to a decrease in our revenues. consulting segment revenues constituted 17% of our total revenues in 2014 and 18% in 2013. consulting engagements typically are project-based and non-recurring. our ability to replace consulting engagements is subject to numerous factors, including the following: delivering consistent, high-quality consulting services to our clients; tailoring our consulting services to the changing needs of our clients; and our ability to match the skills and competencies of our consulting staff to the skills required for the fulfillment of existing or potential consulting engagements. 7 any material decline in our ability to replace consulting arrangements could have an adverse impact on our revenues and our financial condition. in addition, revenue in our contract optimization business can fluctuate from period to period. the profitability and success of our conferences, symposia and events could be adversely affected by external factors beyond our control. the market for desirable dates and locations for conferences, symposia and events is highly competitive. if we cannot secure desirable dates and suitable venues for our conferences, symposia and events their profitability could suffer, and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. in addition, because our events are scheduled in advance and held at specific locations, the success of these events can be affected by circumstances outside of our control, such as labor strikes, transportation shutdowns and travel restrictions, economic slowdowns, reductions in government spending, geo-political crises, terrorist attacks, weather, natural disasters, communicable diseases, and other occurrences impacting the global, regional, or national economies, the occurrence of any of which could negatively impact the success of the event. we also face the challenge of procuring venues that are sizeable enough at a reasonable cost to accommodate some of our major events. our sales to governments are subject to appropriations and may be terminated. we derive significant revenues from research and consulting contracts with the u.s. government and its respective agencies, numerous state and local governments and their respective agencies, and foreign governments and their agencies. at december 31, 2014 and 2013, approximately $310.0 million and $283.0 million, respectively, of our total contracts were attributable to government entities. we believe substantially all of the amounts attributable to government entities at december 31, 2014 will be filled in 2015. our u.s. government contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations by the u.s. congress to fund the agencies contracting for our services. additionally, our contracts at the state and local levels, as well as foreign government contracts, are subject to various governmental authorizations and funding approvals and mechanisms. in general, most if not all of these contracts may be terminated at any time without cause or penalty ( termination for convenience ). similarly, contracts with u.s. federal, state and local, and foreign governments and their respective agencies are subject to increasingly complex bidding procedures, compliance requirements and intense competition. should appropriations for the governments and agencies that contract with us be curtailed, or should our government contracts be terminated for convenience, we may experience a significant loss of segment and consolidated revenues. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel which could jeopardize our future growth plans, as well as the quality of our products and services. our success depends heavily upon the quality of our senior management, research analysts, consultants, sales and other key personnel. we face competition for qualified professionals from, among others, technology companies, market research firms, consulting firms, financial services companies and electronic and print media companies, some of which have a greater ability to attract and compensate these professionals. recent improvements in the u.s economy have heightened this competition. additionally, some of the personnel that we attempt to hire are subject to non-compete agreements that could impede our short-term recruitment efforts. any inability to retain key personnel, or to hire and train additional qualified personnel to support the evolving needs of clients or the projected growth in our business, could adversely affect the quality of our products and services, as well as future business and operating results. we may not be able to maintain the equity in our brand name. we believe that our gartner brand, including our independence, is critical to our efforts to attract and retain clients and that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition increases. we may expand our marketing activities to promote and strengthen the gartner brand and may need to increase our marketing budget, hire additional marketing and public relations personnel, and expend additional sums to protect our brand and otherwise increase expenditures to create and maintain client brand loyalty. if we fail to effectively promote and maintain the gartner brand, or incur excessive expenses in doing so, our future business and operating results could be adversely impacted. our international operations expose us to a variety of operational risks which could negatively impact our future revenue and growth. we have clients in over 90 countries and a substantial amount of our revenues is earned outside of the u.s. our operating results are subject to the risks inherent in international business activities, including general political and economic conditions in each country, changes in market demand as a result of tariffs and other trade barriers, challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations, changes in regulatory requirements, compliance with numerous foreign laws and regulations, differences between u.s. and foreign tax rates and laws, and the difficulty of enforcing client agreements, collecting accounts receivable and protecting intellectual property rights in international jurisdictions. furthermore, we rely on local distributors or sales agents in some international locations. if any of these arrangements are terminated by our agent or us, we may not be able to replace the arrangement on beneficial terms or on a timely basis, or clients of the local distributor or sales agent may not want to continue to do business with us or our new agent. we are exposed to volatility in foreign currency exchange rates from our international operations. revenues earned outside the u.s. are typically transacted in local currencies, which may fluctuate significantly against the u.s. dollar. while we may use forward exchange contracts to a limited extent to seek to mitigate foreign currency risk, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. additionally, our effective tax rate is increased as the u.s dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, which could impact our operating results. 8 natural disasters or geo-political events may disrupt our business. a major weather event, terrorist attack, earthquake, flood, volcanic activity, or other catastrophic disaster could significantly disrupt our operations. such events could cause delays in initiating or completing sales, impede delivery of our products and services to our clients, disrupt other critical client-facing and business processes, or dislocate our critical internal functions and personnel. our corporate headquarters is located approximately 30 miles from new york city, and we have an operations center located in ft. myers, florida, a hurricane-prone area. we also operate in numerous international locations, and we have offices in a number of major cities across the globe. abrupt political change, terrorist activity, communicable diseases, and armed conflict pose a risk of general economic disruption in affected countries and regions, which may negatively impact our sales and increase our operating costs. additionally, these conditions also may add uncertainty to the timing and budget decisions of our clients. such events could significantly harm our ability to conduct normal business operations and negatively impact our financial condition and operating results. privacy concerns could damage our reputation and deter current and potential clients from using our products and services or attending our events. concerns relating to global data privacy have the potential to damage our reputation and deter current and prospective clients from using our products and services or attending our events. in the ordinary course of our business and in accordance with applicable laws, we collect personal information (i) from our employees (ii) from the users of our products and services, including event attendees; and (iii) from prospective clients. we collect only basic personal information from our clients and prospects (name, email address, job title) and do not as a rule collect sensitive personal information like ssns and credit card numbers. even if unfounded, concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure, or security of this personal information or other data privacy related matters, could damage our reputation and adversely affect our operating results. in addition, because many of our products and services are web-based, the amount of data we store on our servers (including personal information) has been increasing. any systems failure or compromise of our security that results in the disclosure of our users' personal data could seriously limit the consumption of our products and services and the attendance at our events, as well as harm our reputation and brand and, therefore, our business. in addition, while we are a safe harbor certified company and while we have implemented a company-wide privacy compliance program, regulatory authorities around the world continue to adopt new laws, regulations and penalties concerning data privacy. the interpretation and application of these laws in the u.s., europe and elsewhere are often uncertain, inconsistent and ever changing. it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data privacy practices. complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. internet and critical internal computer system failures, cyber-attacks, or compromises of our systems or security could damage our reputation and harm our business. a significant portion of our business is conducted over the internet and we rely heavily on computer systems to conduct our operations. individuals, groups, and state-sponsored organizations may take steps that pose threats to our operations, our computer systems, our employees, and our customers. they may develop and deploy malicious software to gain access to our networks and attempt to steal confidential information, launch distributed denial of service attacks, or attempt other coordinated disruptions. these threats are constantly evolving and becoming more sophisticated, thereby increasing the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. a cyber-attack, widespread internet failure, or disruption of our critical information technology systems through denial of service, viruses, or other events could cause delays in initiating or completing sales, impede delivery of our products and services to our clients, disrupt other critical client-facing or business processes, or dislocate our critical internal functions. such events could significantly harm our ability to conduct normal business operations and negatively impact our financial results. we take steps to secure our management information systems, including our computer systems, intranet, proprietary websites, email and other telecommunications and data networks, and we carefully scrutinize the security of outsourced website and service providers prior to retaining their services. however, the security measures implemented by us or by our outside service providers may not be effective and our systems (and those of our outside service providers) may be vulnerable to theft, loss, damage and interruption from a number of potential sources and events, including unauthorized access or security breaches, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, power loss, or other disruptive events. our reputation, brand, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected if, as a result of a significant cyber event or other technology-related catastrophe, our operations are disrupted or shutdown; our confidential, proprietary information is stolen or disclosed; we incur costs or are required to pay fines in connection with stolen customer, employee, or other confidential information; we are required to dedicate significant resources to system repairs or increase cyber security protection; or we otherwise incur significant litigation or other costs as a result of these occurrences. we may experience outages and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure. our increasing user traffic and complexity of our products and services demand more computing power. we have spent and expect 9 to continue to spend substantial amounts to maintain data centers and equipment, to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle increased traffic on our websites, and to deliver our products and services through emerging channels, such as mobile applications. however, any inefficiencies or operational failures could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience, resulting in damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, potentially harming our financial condition and operating results. our outstanding debt obligation could impact our financial condition or future operating results. we have a credit arrangement that provides for a five-year, $400.0 million term loan and a $1.1 billion revolving credit facility (the 2014 credit agreement ). in addition, the credit arrangement contains an expansion feature by which the term loan and revolving facility may be increased, at our option and under certain conditions, by up to an additional $500.0 million in the aggregate. at december 31, 2014, we had a total of $400.0 million outstanding under the term loan of the 2014 credit agreement. the affirmative, negative and financial covenants of the 2014 credit agreement could limit our future financial flexibility. additionally, a failure to comply with these covenants could result in acceleration of all amounts outstanding under the arrangement, which would materially impact our financial condition unless accommodations could be negotiated with our lenders. no assurance can be given that we would be successful in doing so in this current financial climate, or that any accommodations that we were able to negotiate would be on terms as favorable as those presently contained in the credit arrangement. the associated debt service costs of this credit arrangement could impair our future operating results. the outstanding debt may limit the amount of cash or additional credit available to us, which could restrain our ability to expand or enhance products and services, respond to competitive pressures or pursue future business opportunities requiring substantial investments of additional capital. we may require additional cash resources which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. we believe that our existing cash balances, projected cash flow from operations, and the borrowing capacity we have under our revolving credit facility will be sufficient to fund our plans for the next 12 months and the foreseeable future. however, we may require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions, implementation of our strategy and stock repurchase program, to repay indebtedness or to pursue future business opportunities requiring substantial investments of additional capital, including acquisitions. if our existing financial resources are insufficient to satisfy our requirements, we may seek additional borrowings or issue debt. prevailing credit and debt market conditions may negatively affect debt availability and cost, and, as a result, financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. in addition, the incurrence of additional indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could require us to agree to operating and financial covenants that would further restrict our operations. if we are unable to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights our competitive position may be harmed. we rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, patent, confidentiality, non-compete and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property rights. despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized third parties may obtain and use technology or other information that we regard as proprietary. our intellectual property rights may not survive a legal challenge to their validity or provide significant protection for us. the laws of certain countries, particularly in emerging markets, do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. accordingly, we may not be able to protect our intellectual property against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. additionally, there can be no assurance that another party will not assert that we have infringed its intellectual property rights. our employees are subject to non-compete agreements to the extent permitted under applicable law. when the non-competition period expires, former employees may compete against us. if a former employee chooses to compete against us prior to the expiration of the non-competition period, we seek to enforce these non-compete provisions but there is no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts. we have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions and strategic investments, which could involve substantial risks. we have made and may continue to make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses that offer complementary products and services or otherwise support our growth objectives. the risks involved in each acquisition or investment include the possibility of paying more than the value we derive from the acquisition, dilution of the interests of our current stockholders should we issue stock in the acquisition, decreased working capital, increased indebtedness, the assumption of undisclosed liabilities and unknown and unforeseen risks, the ability to retain key personnel of the acquired company, the inability to integrate the business of the acquired company, the time to train the sales force to market and sell the products of the acquired business, the potential disruption of our ongoing business and the distraction of management from our day to day business. the realization of any of these risks could adversely affect our business. additionally, we face competition in identifying acquisition targets and consummating acquisitions. 10 we face risks related to litigation. we are, and in the future may be, subject to a variety of legal actions, such as employment, breach of contract, intellectual property-related, and business torts, including claims of unfair trade practices and misappropriation of trade secrets. given the nature of our business, we are also subject to defamation (including libel and slander), negligence, or other claims relating to the information we publish. regardless of the merits and despite vigorous efforts to defend any such claim can affect our reputation, and responding to any such claim could be time consuming, result in costly litigation and require us to enter into settlements, royalty and licensing agreements which may not be offered or available on reasonable terms. if a claim is made against us which we cannot defend or resolve on reasonable terms, our business, brand, and financial results could be materially and adversely affected. we face risks related to taxation . we are a global company with operations and clients in over 90 countries. a substantial amount of our earnings is generated outside of the u.s. and taxed at rates significantly less than the u.s. statutory federal income tax rate. our effective tax rate, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected by earnings being higher than anticipated in jurisdictions with higher statutory tax rates and, conversely, lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and/or by changes in tax laws or accounting principles and their interpretation by relevant authorities. at the present time, the united states and other countries where we do business have either changed or are actively considering changes in their tax, accounting and other related laws. in the united states, proposed tax law changes, particularly those directed at taxing unremitted and future foreign earnings, could increase our effective tax rate. in addition, ireland recently modified its tax residency rules. while, at the present time, these changes are not effective until 2020 for many companies with irish resident operations, including gartner, the new rules could increase our effective tax rate at that future date. likewise, certain international organizations such as the organization for economic development and cooperation, are actively considering proposals, certain of which, if enacted by foreign governments, could significantly increase our tax obligations in many countries where we do business. these actual, potential, and other changes, both individually and collectively, could materially increase our effective tax rate and negatively impact our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. in addition, our tax filings for various years are subject to examination by domestic and international taxing authorities and, during the ordinary course of business, we are under audit by tax authorities. although we believe that our tax filings and related accruals are reasonable, the final resolution of tax audits may be materially different from what is reflected in our historical tax provisions and accruals and could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows, particularly in major taxing jurisdictions including, but not limited to: the united states, ireland, india, canada, united kingdom, japan, france, and italy. our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. we operate in a number of countries, including emerging markets, and as a result we are required to comply with numerous, and in many cases, changing international and u.s. federal, state and local laws and regulations. as a result, we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program which includes the creation of appropriate policies defining employee behavior that mandate adherence to laws, employee training, annual affirmations, monitoring and enforcement. however, if any employee fails to comply with, or intentionally disregards, any of these laws, regulations or our policies, a range of liabilities could result for the employee and for the company, including, but not limited to, significant penalties and fines, sanctions and/or litigation, and the expenses associated with defending and resolving any of the foregoing, any of which could have a negative impact on our reputation and business. risks related to our common stock our operating results may fluctuate from period to period and may not meet the expectations of investors or the financial guidance we have given, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate in the future as a result of many factors, including the timing of the execution of research contracts, the extent of completion of consulting engagements, the timing of symposia and other events, the amount of new business generated, the mix of domestic and international business, currency fluctuations, changes in market demand for our products and services, the timing of the development, introduction and marketing of new products and services, and competition in the industry. an inability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flow, and achieve our forecasts, may impact our operating and other activities. the potential fluctuations in our operating results could cause period-to-period comparisons of operating results not to be meaningful and may provide an unreliable indication of future operating results. furthermore, our operating results may not meet the expectations of investors or the financial guidance we have previously provided. if this occurs, the price of our common stock could decline. our stock price may be impacted by factors outside of our control and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid. the price of our common stock is subject to significant fluctuations in response to, among other factors, developments in the industries in which we do business, general economic conditions, general market conditions, geo- 11 political events, changes in the nature and composition of our stockholder base, changes in securities analysts' recommendations regarding our securities and our performance relative to securities analysts' expectations for any quarterly period, as well as other factors outside of our control including any and all factors that move the securities markets generally. these factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our stock price. sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock in the public market by our current stockholders, or the threat that substantial sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease significantly or make it difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling stock. furthermore, we have various equity incentive plans that provide for awards in the form of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other stock-based awards which have the effect of adding shares of common stock into the public market. at the present time, we are executing against a board-approved share repurchase program to reduce the number of outstanding shares of our common stock. at december 31, 2014, $413.3 million remained available for share purchases under this program. no assurance can be given that we will continue these activities in the future when the program is completed, or in the event that the price of our common stock reaches levels at which repurchases are not accretive. as of december 31, 2014, the aggregate number of shares of our common stock issuable pursuant to outstanding grants and awards under these plans was approximately 2.9 million shares (approximately 0.6 million of which have vested). in addition, at the present time, approximately 8.0 million shares may be issued in connection with future awards under our equity incentive plans. shares of common stock issued under these plans are freely transferable and have been registered under the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act ), except for any shares held by affiliates (as that term is defined in rule 144 under the securities act) which are subject to certain limitations. we cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. interests of certain of our significant stockholders may conflict with yours . to our knowledge, as of the date hereof, and based upon publicly-available sec filings, four institutional investors each presently hold over 5% of our common stock. while no stockholder or institutional investor individually holds a majority of our outstanding shares, these significant stockholders may be able, either individually or acting together, to exercise significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation, adoption or amendment of equity plans and approval of significant transactions such as mergers, acquisitions, consolidations and sales or purchases of assets. in addition, in the event of a proposed acquisition of the company by a third party, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change of control in us. accordingly, the interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, or otherwise be in the best interests of us or all stockholders. our anti-takeover protections may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and delaware law may make it difficult for any party to acquire control of us in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. these provisions include: the ability of our board of directors to issue and determine the terms of preferred stock; advance notice requirements for inclusion of stockholder proposals at stockholder meetings; and the anti-takeover provisions of delaware law. these provisions could discourage or prevent a change of control or change in management that might provide stockholders with a premium to the market price of their common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 32 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate risk the company's 2014 credit agreement provides for a five-year, $400.0 million term loan and a $1.1 billion revolving credit facility. we have exposure to changes in interest rates arising from borrowings under the 2014 credit agreement since amounts borrowed are based on a floating base rate of interest. at december 31, 2014, we had $400.0 million outstanding under the term portion of the 2014 credit agreement and zero under the revolver. we have an interest rate swap contract which effectively converts the floating base rate on the first $200.0 million of our borrowings to a 2.26% fixed rate. since the company only hedges the base interest rate risk on the first $200.0 million of its outstanding borrowings, we are exposed to interest rate risk on floating rate borrowings in excess of $200.0 million. assuming the company borrowed the entire $1.5 billion under the 2014 credit agreement as of december 31, 2014, a 25 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates could change pre-tax annual interest expense by approximately $3.3 million. foreign currency risk for both the fiscal years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013, approximately 45% of our revenues were derived from sales outside of the u.s. as a result, we conduct business in numerous currencies other than the u.s dollar. among the major foreign currencies in which we conduct business are the euro, the british pound, the japanese yen, the australian dollar, and the canadian dollar. this foreign currency exposure results in both translation risk and transaction risk: translation risk we are exposed to foreign currency translation risk since the functional currencies of our foreign operations are generally denominated in the local currency. translation risk arises since the assets and liabilities that we report for our foreign subsidiaries are translated into u.s. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet dates, and these exchange rates fluctuate over time. for accounting purposes, these foreign currency translation adjustments are deferred and are recorded as a component of stockholders' equity and do not impact our operating results. a measure of the potential impact of foreign currency translation on our consolidated balance sheets can be determined through a sensitivity analysis of our cash and cash equivalents. at december 31, 2014, we had over $365.0 million of cash and cash equivalents, with a substantial portion denominated in foreign currencies. if the foreign exchange rates of the five major foreign currencies in which we operate changed in comparison to the u.s. dollar by 10%, the amount of cash and cash equivalents we would have reported on december 31, 2014 could have increased or decreased by approximately $24.0 million. because our foreign subsidiaries generally operate in a local functional currency that differs from the u.s. dollar, revenues and expenses in these foreign currencies translate into higher or lower revenues and expenses in u.s. dollars as the u.s. dollar continuously weakens or strengthens against these other currencies. therefore, changes in exchange rates may affect our consolidated revenues and expenses (as expressed in u.s. dollars) from foreign operations. historically, this impact on our consolidated earnings has not been material since foreign currency movements in the major currencies in which we operate tend to impact our revenues and expenses fairly equally. transaction risk we also have foreign exchange transaction risk since foreign subsidiaries typically enter into transactions in the normal course of business that are denominated in foreign currencies that differ from the local functional currency in which the foreign subsidiary operates. we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to mitigate the effects of foreign currency transaction risk. these contracts are normally short term in duration and both realized and unrealized gains and losses are recognized in current period earnings. at december 31, 2014, we had 77 outstanding foreign currency forward contracts with a total notional amount of approximately $45.6 million and an immaterial net unrealized gain. substantially all of these contracts matured by the end of january 2015. credit risk financial instruments that potentially subject the company to concentration of credit risk consist primarily of short-term, highly liquid investments classified as cash equivalents, accounts receivable, and an interest rate swap contract. the majority of the company's cash and cash equivalents and its interest rate swap contract are with large investment grade commercial banks. accounts receivable balances collectible from customers have limited concentration of credit risk due to our diverse customer base and geographic dispersion. 32risk factors 7 risk factors we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. in addition, we and our clients are affected by global economic conditions. the following sections discuss many, but not all, of the risks and uncertainties that may affect our future performance, but is not intended to be all-inclusive. any of the risks described below could have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows, and could therefore have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. additionally risks not currently known to us or that we now deem immaterial may also harm us and negatively affect your investment. risks related to our business our operating results could be negatively impacted by global economic conditions. our business is impacted by general economic conditions and trends, in the u.s and abroad. severe downward pressures on global commodity prices and a lower growth rate in china have contributed to a general outlook of weaker economic growth both in the u.s. and abroad in 2016. recent geopolitical events, such as the terrorist attacks in france, have added to the uncertainty. these conditions could negatively and materially affect future demand for our products and services in general, in certain geographic regions, or in particular industry sectors. such difficulties could include the ability to maintain client retention, wallet retention and consulting utilization rates, achieve contract value and consulting backlog growth, attract attendees and exhibitors to our events or obtain new clients. such developments could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we face significant competition and our failure to compete successfully could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. we face direct competition from a significant number of independent providers of information products and services, including information available on the internet free of charge. we also compete indirectly against consulting firms and other information providers, including electronic and print media companies, some of which may have greater financial, information gathering and marketing resources than we do. these indirect competitors could also choose to compete directly with us in the future. in addition, low barriers to entry exist in the markets in which we do business. as a result, new competitors may emerge and existing competitors may start to provide additional or complementary services. additionally, technological advances may provide increased competition from a variety of sources. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete against current and future competitors and our failure to do so could result in loss of market share, diminished value in our products and services, reduced pricing and increased marketing expenditures. furthermore, we may not be successful if we cannot compete effectively on quality of research and analysis, timely delivery of information, customer service, and the ability to offer products to meet changing market needs for information and analysis, or price. we may not be able to maintain the quality of our existing products and services. we operate in a rapidly evolving market, and our success depends upon our ability to deliver high quality and timely research and analysis to our clients. any failure to continue to provide credible and reliable information that is useful to our clients could have a material adverse effect on future business and operating results. further, if our published data, opinions or viewpoints prove to be wrong or are not substantiated by appropriate research, our reputation may suffer and demand for our products and services may decline. in addition, we must continue to improve our methods for delivering our products and services in a cost-effective manner via the internet and mobile applications. failure to maintain state of the art electronic delivery capabilities could adversely affect our future business and operating results. we may not be able to enhance and develop our existing products and services, or introduce the new products and services that are needed to remain competitive. the market for our products and services is characterized by rapidly changing needs for information and analysis on the it industry as a whole. the development of new products is a complex and time-consuming process. nonetheless, to maintain our competitive position, we must continue to anticipate the needs of our client organizations, develop, enhance and improve our existing as well as new products and services to address those needs, deliver all products and services in a timely, user-friendly and state of the art manner, and appropriately position and price new products and services relative to the marketplace and our costs of developing them. any failure to achieve successful client acceptance of new products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. additionally, significant delays in new product or service releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect our business, the results of operations and our financial position. technology is rapidly evolving, and if we do not continue to develop new product and service offerings in response to these changes, our business could suffer. disruptive technologies are rapidly changing the environment in which we, our clients, and our competitors operate. we will need to continue to respond to these changes by enhancing our product and service offerings in order 7 to maintain our competitive position. however, we may not be successful in responding to these forces and enhance our products on a timely basis, and any enhancements we develop may not adequately address the changing needs of our clients. our future success will depend upon our ability to develop and introduce in a timely manner new or enhanced existing offerings that address the changing needs of this constantly evolving marketplace. failure to develop products that meet the needs of our clients in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, the results of operations and our financial position. we depend on renewals of subscription-based services and sales of new subscription-based services for a significant portion of our revenue, and our failure to renew at historical rates or generate new sales of such services could lead to a decrease in our revenues. a large portion of our success depends on our ability to generate renewals of our subscription-based research products and services and new sales of such products and services, both to new clients and existing clients. these products and services constituted approximately 73% and 72% of our total revenues for 2015 and 2014, respectively. generating new sales of our subscription-based products and services, both to new and existing clients, is a challenging, costly, and often time consuming process. if we are unable to generate new sales, due to competition or other factors, our revenues will be adversely affected. our research subscription contracts are typically for twelve months or longer. our ability to maintain contract renewals is subject to numerous factors, including the following: delivering high-quality and timely analysis and advice to our clients; understanding and anticipating market trends and the changing needs of our clients; and providing products and services of the quality and timeliness necessary to withstand competition. additionally, as we continue to adjust our products and service offerings to meet our clients' continuing needs, we may shift the type and pricing of our products which may impact client renewal rates. while our research client retention rate was 84% at december 31, 2015 and 85% at december 31, 2014, there can be no guarantee that we will continue to maintain this rate of client renewals. we depend on non-recurring consulting engagements and our failure to secure new engagements could lead to a decrease in our revenues. consulting segment revenues constituted 15% of our total revenues in 2015 and 17% in 2014. consulting engagements typically are project-based and non-recurring. our ability to replace consulting engagements is subject to numerous factors, including the following: delivering consistent, high-quality consulting services to our clients; tailoring our consulting services to the changing needs of our clients; and our ability to match the skills and competencies of our consulting staff to the skills required for the fulfillment of existing or potential consulting engagements. any material decline in our ability to replace consulting arrangements could have an adverse impact on our revenues and our financial condition. in addition, revenue from our contract optimization business can fluctuate significantly from period to period and is not predictable. the profitability and success of our conferences, symposia and events could be adversely affected by external factors beyond our control. the market for desirable dates and locations for conferences, symposia and events is highly competitive. if we cannot secure desirable dates and suitable venues for our conferences, symposia and events their profitability could suffer, and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. in addition, because our events are scheduled in advance and held at specific locations, the success of these events can be affected by circumstances outside of our control, such as labor strikes, transportation shutdowns and travel restrictions, economic slowdowns, reductions in government spending, geo-political crises, terrorist attacks, war, weather, natural disasters, communicable diseases, and other occurrences impacting the global, regional, or national economies, the occurrence of any of which could negatively impact the success of the event. we also face the challenge of procuring venues that are sizeable enough at a reasonable cost to accommodate some of our major events. our sales to governments are subject to appropriations and may be terminated. we derive significant revenues from research and consulting contracts with the u.s. government and its respective agencies, numerous state and local governments and their respective agencies, and foreign governments and their agencies. at december 31, 2015 and 2014, approximately $345.0 million and $310.0 million, respectively, of our total contracts were attributable to government entities. we believe substantially all of the amounts attributable to government entities at december 31, 2015 will be filled in 2016. our u.s. government contracts are subject 8 to the approval of appropriations by the u.s. congress to fund the agencies contracting for our services. additionally, our contracts at the state and local levels, as well as foreign government contracts, are subject to various governmental authorizations and funding approvals and mechanisms. in general, most if not all of these contracts may be terminated at any time without cause or penalty ( termination for convenience ). similarly, contracts with u.s. federal, state and local, and foreign governments and their respective agencies are subject to increasingly complex bidding procedures, compliance requirements and intense competition. should appropriations for the governments and agencies that contract with us be curtailed, or should our government contracts be terminated for convenience, we may experience a significant loss of consolidated and segment revenues. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel which could jeopardize our future growth plans, as well as the quality of our products and services. our success depends heavily upon the quality of our senior management, research analysts, consultants, sales and other key personnel. we face competition for qualified professionals from, among others, technology companies, market research firms, consulting firms, financial services companies and electronic and print media companies, some of which have a greater ability to attract and compensate these professionals. recent improvements in the u.s economy have heightened this competition. additionally, some of the personnel that we attempt to hire are subject to non-compete agreements that could impede our short-term recruitment efforts. any inability to retain key personnel, or to hire and train additional qualified personnel to support the evolving needs of clients or the projected growth in our business, could adversely affect the quality of our products and services, as well as future business and operating results. we may not be able to maintain the equity in our brand name. we believe that our gartner brand, including our independence, is critical to our efforts to attract and retain clients and that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition increases. we may expand our marketing activities to promote and strengthen the gartner brand and may need to increase our marketing budget, hire additional marketing and public relations personnel, and expend additional sums to protect our brand and otherwise increase expenditures to create and maintain client brand loyalty. if we fail to effectively promote and maintain the gartner brand, or incur excessive expenses in doing so, our future business and operating results could be adversely impacted. our international operations expose us to a variety of operational and other risks which could negatively impact our future revenue and growth. we have clients in over 90 countries and a substantial amount of our revenue is earned outside of the u.s. our operating results are subject to the risks inherent in international business activities, including general political and economic conditions in each country, changes in market demand as a result of tariffs and other trade barriers, challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations, changes in regulatory requirements, compliance with numerous foreign laws and regulations, and the difficulty of enforcing client agreements, collecting accounts receivable and protecting intellectual property rights in international jurisdictions. furthermore, we rely on local distributors or sales agents in some international locations. if any of these arrangements are terminated by our agent or us, we may not be able to replace the arrangement on beneficial terms or on a timely basis, or clients of the local distributor or sales agent may not want to continue to do business with us or our new agent. our business and operations may be conducted in countries where corruption has historically penetrated the economy. it is our policy to comply, and to require our local partners and those with whom we do business to comply, with all applicable anti-corruption laws, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and u.k. bribery act, and with applicable local laws of the foreign countries in which we operate. our business and reputation may be adversely affected if we fail to comply with such laws. we are exposed to volatility in foreign currency exchange rates from our international operations. revenues earned outside the u.s. are typically transacted in local currencies, which may fluctuate significantly against the u.s. dollar. while we may use forward exchange contracts to a limited extent to seek to mitigate foreign currency risk, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. additionally, our effective tax rate is increased as the u.s dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, which could impact our operating results. natural disasters, terrorist acts, war, and other geo-political events could disrupt our business. we operate in numerous u.s. and international locations, and we have offices in a number of major cities across the globe. a major weather event, earthquake, flood, drought, volcanic activity, disease, or other catastrophic natural disaster could significantly disrupt our operations. in addition, acts of civil unrest, failure of critical infrastructure, terrorism, armed conflict, war, and abrupt political change, as well as responses by various governments and the international community to such acts, can have a negative effect on our business. such events could cause delays in initiating or completing sales, impede delivery of our products and services to our clients, disrupt or shut down the internet or other critical client-facing and business processes, impede the travel of our personnel and clients, dislocate our critical internal functions and personnel, and in general harm our ability to conduct normal business operations, any of which can negatively impact our financial condition and operating results. such events could also impact the timing and budget decisions of our clients, which could negatively impact our business. privacy concerns could damage our reputation and deter current and potential clients from using our products and services or attending our events. concerns relating to global data privacy have the potential to damage our reputation and deter current and 9 prospective clients from using our products and services or attending our events. in the ordinary course of our business and in accordance with applicable laws, we collect personal information (i) from our employees (ii) from the users of our products and services, including event attendees; and (iii) from prospective clients. we collect only basic personal information from our clients and prospects (name, email address, job title) and do not as a rule collect sensitive personal information like the social security numbers used in the u.s. while we may collect credit card numbers on a limited basis from some clients to facilitate payment, we do not store such numbers. even if unfounded, concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure, or security of this personal information or other data privacy related matters, could damage our reputation and adversely affect our operating results. in addition, because many of our products and services are web-based, the amount of data we store on our servers (including personal information) has been increasing. any systems failure or compromise of our security that results in the disclosure of our users' personal data could seriously limit the consumption of our products and services and the attendance at our events, as well as harm our reputation and brand and, therefore, our business. in addition, while we have been a safe harbor certified company for a number of years, and while we have implemented a company-wide privacy compliance program, regulatory authorities around the world continue to adopt new laws, regulations and penalties concerning data privacy. most recently, the european court of justice invalidated the safe harbor framework between the u.s. and eu countries, w hich thousands of global companies, including gartner, relied on for the lawful transfer of personal data from the eu to the u.s. and, as of the date of this report, an agreement regarding a new framework entitled the eu-u.s. privacy shield has been announced. we are closely monitoring developments as the eu and u.s. work to address this issue. until there is definitive guidance for u.s. companies impacted by this decision, gartner will continue to maintain and rely upon our comprehensive global data privacy compliance program and robust processes to safeguard our associates' and clients' personal data. the interpretation and application of these laws in the u.s., the eu and elsewhere are often uncertain, inconsistent and ever changing. it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data privacy practices. complying with these various laws, as well as the yet to be issued definitive guidance for u.s. companies concerning the transmission of personal data between the eu and u.s., could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. internet and critical internal computer system failures, cyber-attacks, or compromises of our systems or security could damage our reputation and harm our business. a significant portion of our business is conducted over the internet and we rely heavily on computer systems to conduct our operations. individuals, groups, and state-sponsored organizations may take steps that pose threats to our operations, our computer systems, our employees, and our customers. they may develop and deploy malicious software to gain access to our networks and attempt to steal confidential information, launch distributed denial of service attacks, or attempt other coordinated disruptions. these threats are constantly evolving and becoming more sophisticated, thereby increasing the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. a cyber-attack, widespread internet failure or internet access limitations, or disruption of our critical information technology systems through denial of service, viruses, or other events could cause delays in initiating or completing sales, impede delivery of our products and services to our clients, disrupt other critical client-facing or business processes, or dislocate our critical internal functions. such events could significantly harm our ability to conduct normal business operations and negatively impact our financial results. we take steps to secure our management information systems, including our computer systems, intranet, proprietary websites, email and other telecommunications and data networks, and we carefully scrutinize the security of outsourced website and service providers prior to retaining their services. however, the security measures implemented by us or by our outside service providers may not be effective and our systems (and those of our outside service providers) may be vulnerable to theft, loss, damage and interruption from a number of potential sources and events, including unauthorized access or security breaches, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, power loss, or other disruptive events. our reputation, brand, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected if, as a result of a significant cyber event or other technology-related catastrophe, our operations are disrupted or shutdown; our confidential, proprietary information is stolen or disclosed; we incur costs or are required to pay fines in connection with stolen customer, employee, or other confidential information; we are required to dedicate significant resources to system repairs or increase cyber security protection; or we otherwise incur significant litigation or other costs as a result of these occurrences. we may experience outages and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure. our increasing user traffic and complexity of our products and services demand more computing power. we have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to maintain data centers and equipment, to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle increased traffic on our websites, and to deliver our products and services through emerging channels, such as mobile applications. however, any inefficiencies or operational failures could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience, resulting in damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, potentially harming our financial condition and operating results. 10 our outstanding debt obligations could impact our financial condition or future operating results. we have a credit arrangement that provides for a five-year, $400.0 million term loan and a $1.1 billion revolving credit facility (the 2014 credit agreement ). in addition, the credit arrangement contains an expansion feature by which the term loan and revolving facility may be increased, at our option and under certain conditions, by up to an additional $500.0 million in the aggregate. at december 31, 2015, we had a total of $820.0 million outstanding under the 2014 credit agreement. the affirmative, negative and financial covenants of the 2014 credit agreement could limit our future financial flexibility. additionally, a failure to comply with these covenants could result in acceleration of all amounts outstanding under the 2014 credit agreement, which would materially impact our financial condition unless accommodations could be negotiated with our lenders. no assurance can be given that we would be successful in doing so, or that any accommodations that we were able to negotiate would be on terms as favorable as those presently contained in the credit arrangement. the associated debt service costs of this credit arrangement could impair our future operating results. the outstanding debt may limit the amount of cash or additional credit available to us, which could restrain our ability to expand or enhance products and services, respond to competitive pressures or pursue future business opportunities requiring substantial investments of additional capital. we may require additional cash resources which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. we believe that our existing cash balances, projected cash flow from operations, and the borrowing capacity we have under our revolving credit facility will be sufficient to fund our plans for the next 12 months and the foreseeable future. however, we may require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions, implementation of our strategy and stock repurchase program, to repay indebtedness or to pursue future business opportunities requiring substantial investments of additional capital, including acquisitions. if our existing financial resources are insufficient to satisfy our requirements, we may seek additional borrowings or issue debt. prevailing credit and debt market conditions may negatively affect debt availability and cost, and, as a result, financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. in addition, the incurrence of additional indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could require us to agree to operating and financial covenants that would further restrict our operations. if we are unable to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights our competitive position may be harmed. we rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, patent, confidentiality, non-compete and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property rights. despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized third parties may obtain and use technology or other information that we regard as proprietary. our intellectual property rights may not survive a legal challenge to their validity or provide significant protection for us. the laws of certain countries, particularly in emerging markets, do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. accordingly, we may not be able to protect our intellectual property against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. additionally, there can be no assurance that another party will not assert that we have infringed its intellectual property rights. our employees are subject to non-compete agreements, non-solicitation agreements and assignment of invention agreements, to the extent permitted under applicable law. when the non-competition period expires, former employees may compete against us. if a former employee chooses to compete against us prior to the expiration of the non-competition period, we seek to enforce these non-compete provisions but there is no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts. we have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions and strategic investments, which could involve substantial risks. we have made and may continue to make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses that offer complementary products and services or otherwise support our growth objectives. the risks involved in each acquisition or investment include the possibility of paying more than the value we derive from the acquisition, dilution of the interests of our current stockholders should we issue stock in the acquisition, decreased working capital, increased indebtedness, the assumption of undisclosed liabilities and unknown and unforeseen risks, the ability to retain key personnel of the acquired company, the inability to integrate the business of the acquired company, the time to train the sales force to market and sell the products of the acquired business, the potential disruption of our ongoing business and the distraction of management from our day to day business. the realization of any of these risks could adversely affect our business. additionally, we face competition in identifying acquisition targets and consummating acquisitions. we face risks related to litigation. we are, and in the future may be, subject to a variety of legal actions, such as employment, breach of contract, intellectual property-related, and business torts, including claims of unfair trade practices and misappropriation of trade secrets. given the nature of our business, we are also subject to defamation (including libel and slander), negligence, or other claims relating to the information we publish. regardless of the merits and despite vigorous efforts to defend any such claim can affect our reputation, and responding to any such claim could be time consuming, result in costly litigation and require us to enter into settlements, royalty and licensing agreements which may not be offered or available on reasonable terms. if a claim is made against us which we cannot defend or resolve on reasonable terms, our business, brand, and financial results could be materially and adversely affected. 11 we face risks related to taxation . we are a global company with operations and clients in over 90 countries. a substantial amount of our earnings is generated outside of the u.s. and taxed at rates significantly less than the u.s. statutory federal income tax rate. our effective tax rate, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected by earnings being higher than anticipated in jurisdictions with higher statutory tax rates and, conversely, lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and/or by changes in tax laws or accounting principles and their interpretation by relevant authorities. at the present time, the united states and other countries where we do business have either changed or are actively considering changes in their tax, accounting and other related laws. in the united states, proposed and other tax law changes, particularly those directed at taxing unremitted and future foreign earnings, could increase our effective tax rate. in 2014, ireland modified its tax residency rules. while these changes are not effective until 2021 for many companies with irish resident operations, including gartner, the new rules could increase our effective tax rate at that future date. likewise, during 2015, the organization for economic development and cooperation ( oecd ) released final reports on various actions items associated with its initiative to prevent base erosion and profit shifting ( beps). the future enactment by various governments of these and future oecd proposals could significantly increase our tax obligations in many countries where we do business. these actual, potential, and other changes, both individually and collectively, could materially increase our effective tax rate and negatively impact our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. in addition, our tax filings for various years are subject to examination by domestic and international taxing authorities and, during the ordinary course of business, we are under audit by various tax authorities. recent and future actions on the part of the oecd and various governments will likely result in increased scrutiny of our tax filings. although we believe that our tax filings and related accruals are reasonable, the final resolution of tax audits may be materially different from what is reflected in our historical tax provisions and accruals and could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows, particularly in major taxing jurisdictions including, but not limited to: the united states, ireland, india, canada, united kingdom, japan, and france. our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. we operate in a number of countries, including emerging markets, and as a result we are required to comply with numerous, and in many cases, changing international and u.s. federal, state and local laws and regulations. as a result, we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program which includes the creation of appropriate policies defining employee behavior that mandate adherence to laws, employee training, annual affirmations, monitoring and enforcement. however, if any employee fails to comply with, or intentionally disregards, any of these laws, regulations or our policies, a range of liabilities could result for the employee and for the company, including, but not limited to, significant penalties and fines, sanctions and/or litigation, and the expenses associated with defending and resolving any of the foregoing, any of which could have a negative impact on our reputation and business. risks related to our common stock our operating results may fluctuate from period to period and/or the financial guidance we have given may not meet the expectations of investors, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate in the future as a result of many factors, including the timing of the execution of research contracts, the extent of completion of consulting engagements, the timing of symposia and other events, the amount of new business generated, the mix of domestic and international business, currency fluctuations, changes in market demand for our products and services, the timing of the development, introduction and marketing of new products and services, competition in our industry, and the impact of our acquisitions. an inability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flow, and achieve our forecasts, may impact our operating and other activities. the potential fluctuations in our operating results could cause period-to-period comparisons of operating results not to be meaningful and may provide an unreliable indication of future operating results. furthermore, our operating results may not meet the expectations of investors or the financial guidance we have previously provided. if this occurs, the price of our common stock could decline. our stock price may be impacted by factors outside of our control and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid. the price of our common stock is subject to significant fluctuations in response to, among other factors, developments in the industries in which we do business, general economic conditions, general market conditions, geo-political events, changes in the nature and composition of our stockholder base, changes in securities analysts' recommendations regarding our securities and our performance relative to securities analysts' expectations for any quarterly period, as well as other factors outside of our control including any and all factors that move the securities markets generally. these factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 12 future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our stock price. sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock in the public market by our current stockholders, or the threat that substantial sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease significantly or make it difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling stock. furthermore, we have various equity incentive plans that provide for awards in the form of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other stock-based awards which have the effect of adding shares of common stock into the public market. at the present time, we are executing against a board-approved share repurchase program to reduce the number of outstanding shares of our common stock. at december 31, 2015, approximately $1.1 billion remained available for share purchases under this program. no assurance can be given that we will continue these activities in the future when the program is completed, or in the event that the price of our common stock reaches levels at which repurchases are not accretive. future sales of our common stock from grants and awards could lower our stock price. as of december 31, 2015, the aggregate number of shares of our common stock issuable pursuant to outstanding grants and awards under our equity incentive plans was approximately 2.7 million shares (approximately 0.5 million of which have vested). in addition, at the present time, approximately 7.0 million shares may be issued in connection with future awards under our equity incentive plans. shares of common stock issued under these plans are freely transferable and have been registered under the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act ), except for any shares held by affiliates (as that term is defined in rule 144 under the securities act) which are subject to certain limitations. we cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. interests of certain of our significant stockholders may conflict with yours . to our knowledge, as of the date hereof, and based upon publicly-available sec filings, four institutional investors each presently hold over 5% of our common stock. while no stockholder or institutional investor individually holds a majority of our outstanding shares, these significant stockholders may be able, either individually or acting together, to exercise significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation, adoption or amendment of equity plans and approval of significant transactions such as mergers, acquisitions, consolidations and sales or purchases of assets. in addition, in the event of a proposed acquisition of the company by a third party, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change of control in us. accordingly, the interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, or otherwise be in the best interests of us or all stockholders. our anti-takeover protections may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and delaware law may make it difficult for any party to acquire control of us in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. these provisions include: the ability of our board of directors to issue and determine the terms of preferred stock; advance notice requirements for inclusion of stockholder proposals at stockholder meetings; and the anti-takeover provisions of delaware law. these provisions could discourage or prevent a change of control or change in management that might provide stockholders with a premium to the market price of their common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 33 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate risk the company's 2014 credit agreement provides for a five-year, $400.0 million term loan and a $1.1 billion revolving credit facility. at december 31, 2015, we had $820.0 million outstanding under the 2014 credit agreement, which included $380.0 million outstanding under the term loan and $440.0 million under the revolver. we have exposure to changes in interest rates arising from borrowings under the 2014 credit agreement since amounts borrowed are based on a floating base rate of interest. however, we reduce our exposure to changes in interest rates through our interest rate swap contracts which effectively convert the floating base interest rate on the first $700.0 million of our variable rate borrowings to fixed rates. thus we are exposed to interest rate risk on borrowings only in excess of $700.0 million, which equaled $120.0 million at december 31, 2015. as an indication of our exposure to changes in interest rates, a hypothetical 25 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates could have changed our 2015 pre-tax annual interest expense on the $120.0 million of unhedged borrowings at december 31, 2015 by approximately $0.3 million. foreign currency risk for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, approximately 41% and 45%, respectively, of the company's revenues were derived from sales outside of the u.s. as a result, we conduct business in numerous currencies other than the u.s dollar. among the major foreign currencies in which we conduct business are the euro, the british pound, the japanese yen, the australian dollar, and the canadian dollar. the reporting currency of our financial statements is the u.s. dollar. as the values of the foreign currencies in which we operate fluctuate over time relative to the u.s dollar, the company is exposed to both foreign currency translation and transaction risk. translation risk arises as our foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated into u.s. dollars since the functional currencies of our foreign operations are generally denominated in the local currency. adjustments resulting from the translation of these assets and liabilities are deferred and recorded as a component of stockholders' (deficit) equity. a measure of the potential impact of foreign currency translation can be determined through a sensitivity analysis of our cash and cash equivalents. at december 31, 2015, approximately half of our $373.0 million of cash and cash equivalents was denominated in foreign currencies. if the exchange rates of the foreign currencies we hold all changed in comparison to the u.s. dollar by 10%, the amount of cash and cash equivalents we would have reported on december 31, 2015 would have increased or decreased by approximately $19.0 million. the translation of our foreign currency revenues and expenses historically has not had a material impact on our consolidated earnings since movements in and among the major currencies in which we operate tend to impact our revenues and expenses fairly equally. however, our earnings could be impacted during periods of significant exchange rate volatility, or when some or all of the major currencies in which we operate move in the same direction against the u.s dollar. transaction risk arises when our foreign subsidiaries enter into transactions that are denominated in a currency that may differ from the local functional currency. as these transactions are translated into the local functional currency, gain or loss may result, which is recorded in current period earnings. we typically enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to mitigate the effects of some of this foreign currency transaction risk. our outstanding currency contracts as of december 31, 2015 had an immaterial net unrealized gain. 33 credit risk financial instruments that potentially subject the company to concentration of credit risk consist primarily of short-term, highly liquid investments classified as cash equivalents, accounts receivable, and interest rate swap contracts. the majority of the company's cash and cash equivalents, interest rate swap contracts, and its foreign exchange contracts are with large investment grade commercial banks. accounts receivable balances deemed to be collectible from customers have limited concentration of credit risk due to our diverse customer base and geographic dispersion.risk factors 7 risk factors we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. in addition, we and our clients are affected by global economic conditions and trends. the following sections discuss many, but not all, of the risks and uncertainties that may affect our future performance, but is not intended to be all-inclusive. any of the risks described below could have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows, and could therefore have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. additionally risks not currently known to us or that we now deem immaterial may also harm us and negatively affect your investment. risks related to our proposed merger with ceb inc. we may not complete the proposed transaction with ceb within the timeframe we anticipate or at all, which could have a negative effect on our results of operations. on january 5, 2017, we announced together with ceb inc. (nyse: ceb) ("ceb") that we entered into a definitive agreement whereby we will acquire all of the outstanding shares of ceb in a cash and stock transaction valued at approximately $2.6 billion. we will also assume and refinance approximately $0.9 billion of ceb debt. the transaction has been unanimously approved by the boards of directors of both companies. closing of the transaction is subject to the approval of ceb shareholders and the satisfaction of customary closing conditions. the transaction is also subject to other risks and uncertainties, such as the possibility that ceb could receive an unsolicited proposal from a third party or that either we or ceb could exercise our respective termination rights. if the transaction is not consummated or is materially delayed for any reason, we will have spent considerable time and resources, and incurred substantial costs related to the merger, many of which must be paid even if the merger is not consummated. we cannot provide any assurance that the transaction will be consummated, that there will not be a delay in the consummation of the merger, or that all or any of the anticipated benefits and cost synergies of the transaction will be obtained. if the merger is not consummated, our reputation in our industry and in the investment community could be damaged, and the market price of our common stock could decline. we may not be able to obtain our preferred form of financing to consummate the merger, and the terms of the financing may be less favorable to us than expected, depending on market conditions. there is no financing condition under the merger agreement, which means that if the conditions to closing are otherwise satisfied or waived, we are obligated to consummate the merger whether or not we have sufficient funds to pay the consideration under the merger agreement. we currently intend to finance the cash portion of the merger consideration, repay and redeem certain outstanding indebtedness of ceb and its subsidiaries and pay related fees and expenses in connection with the merger using a combination of new term loans, proceeds from the issuance of debt securities (or, to extent such debt securities are not issued, borrowings under a high-yield bridge credit facility), borrowings under a 364-day credit facility, borrowings under our existing revolving credit facility, and cash on hand. although we have obtained debt commitments from certain lenders in connection with our financing plan, such commitment is subject to a number of conditions and we cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to close the financing as anticipated. in addition, although the debt commitment letter for the financing specifies a number of terms for the different facilities, we retain some exposure to changes in pricing and other terms based on market conditions at the time the financing is consummated, which could result in less favorable terms for the financing than expected. the terms of the expected issuance of debt securities are not committed, and the pricing and terms of such debt securities may be less favorable than expected. if terms for the debt financing are less favorable than expected, financing costs could increase, potentially significantly, and our financing or operating flexibility may be constrained. in addition, the short tenor of the 364-day credit facility, together with duration fees, pricing step-ups and other terms of the 364-day credit facility and high-yield bridge credit facility (if drawn), provide significant economic incentive for us to refinance those facilities, which could result in us accessing the market at a less favorable time than we would otherwise choose. if we cannot close on any element of our financing plan, we will need to pursue other financing options, which may result in less favorable financing terms that could increase costs and/or materially adversely affect the credit rating or financing and operating flexibility of the combined company. if the merger agreement is terminated, we may, under certain circumstances, be obligated to pay a termination fee to ceb. these costs could require us to use available cash that would have otherwise been available for general corporate purposes. if the merger agreement is terminated in certain circumstances, we would be required to pay ceb a reverse termination fee of $125.0 million. if the merger agreement is terminated, we may decide to pay the termination fee from available cash that we would have otherwise used for general corporate purposes. for these and other reasons, a failed merger could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows, or the price per share of our common stock. 7 we may experience difficulties in integrating our operations with ceb's and realizing the expected benefits of the transaction with ceb. the success of the transaction with ceb, if consummated, will depend in part on our ability to realize the anticipated business opportunities and growth prospects from combining with ceb in an efficient and effective manner. we may never realize these business opportunities and growth prospects. further, our management might have its attention diverted while trying to integrate operations and corporate and administrative infrastructures. ceb will continue to operate independently of us until the consummation of the transaction. the integration process could take longer than anticipated and could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each company's ongoing businesses, tax costs or inefficiencies, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, information technology systems, procedures and policies, any of which could materially adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees or other third parties, or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the transaction, and could harm our financial performance. if we are unable to successfully or timely integrate the operations of ceb's business with our business, we may incur unanticipated liabilities and be unable to realize the revenue growth, synergies and other anticipated benefits resulting from the proposed transaction, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. risks related to our business our operating results could be negatively impacted by global economic conditions. our business is impacted by general economic conditions and trends, in the united states and abroad. global economic growth, including in the united states, has been subdued in recent years and there is concern this trend will continue in 2017. terrorist attacks around the world and significant political shifts, such as the change in u.s. political leadership, have added additional uncertainty and risks to the economic environment. these trends and conditions could negatively and materially affect future demand for our products and services in general, in certain geographic regions, or in particular industry sectors. such difficulties could include the ability to maintain client retention, wallet retention and consulting utilization rates, achieve contract value and consulting backlog growth, attract attendees and exhibitors to our events or obtain new clients. such developments could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we face significant competition and our failure to compete successfully could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. we face direct competition from a significant number of independent providers of information products and services, including information available on the internet free of charge. we also compete indirectly against consulting firms and other information providers, including electronic and print media companies, some of which may have greater financial, information gathering and marketing resources than we do. these indirect competitors could also choose to compete directly with us in the future. in addition, low barriers to entry exist in the markets in which we do business. as a result, new competitors may emerge and existing competitors may start to provide additional or complementary services. additionally, technological advances may provide increased competition from a variety of sources. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete against current and future competitors and our failure to do so could result in loss of market share, diminished value in our products and services, reduced pricing and increased marketing expenditures. furthermore, we may not be successful if we cannot compete effectively on quality of research and analysis, timely delivery of information, customer service, and the ability to offer products to meet changing market needs for information and analysis, or price. we may not be able to maintain the quality of our existing products and services. we operate in a rapidly evolving market, and our success depends upon our ability to deliver high quality and timely research and analysis to our clients. any failure to continue to provide credible and reliable information that is useful to our clients could have a material adverse effect on future business and operating results. further, if our published data, opinions or viewpoints prove to be wrong or are not substantiated by appropriate research, our reputation may suffer and demand for our products and services may decline. in addition, we must continue to improve our methods for delivering our products and services in a cost-effective manner via the internet and mobile applications. failure to maintain state of the art electronic delivery capabilities could materially adversely affect our future business and operating results. we may not be able to enhance and develop our existing products and services, or introduce the new products and services that are needed to remain competitive. the market for our products and services is characterized by rapidly changing needs for information and analysis on the it industry as a whole. the development of new products is a complex and time-consuming process. nonetheless, to maintain our competitive position, we must continue to anticipate the needs of our client organizations, develop, enhance and improve our existing as well as new products and services to address those needs, deliver all products and services in a timely, user-friendly and state of the art manner, and appropriately position and price new products and services relative to the marketplace and our costs of developing them. any failure to achieve successful client acceptance of new products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. additionally, 8 significant delays in new product or service releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. technology is rapidly evolving, and if we do not continue to develop new product and service offerings in response to these changes, our business could suffer. disruptive technologies are rapidly changing the environment in which we, our clients, and our competitors operate. we will need to continue to respond to these changes by enhancing our product and service offerings in order to maintain our competitive position. however, we may not be successful in responding to these forces and enhance our products on a timely basis, and any enhancements we develop may not adequately address the changing needs of our clients. our future success will depend upon our ability to develop and introduce in a timely manner new or enhanced existing offerings that address the changing needs of this constantly evolving marketplace. failure to develop products that meet the needs of our clients in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position. we depend on renewals of subscription-based services and sales of new subscription-based services for a significant portion of our revenue, and our failure to renew at historical rates or generate new sales of such services could lead to a decrease in our revenues. a large portion of our success depends on our ability to generate renewals of our subscription-based research products and services and new sales of such products and services, both to new clients and existing clients. these products and services constituted approximately 75% and 73% of our total revenues for 2016 and 2015, respectively. generating new sales of our subscription-based products and services, both to new and existing clients, is a challenging, costly, and often time consuming process. if we are unable to generate new sales, due to competition or other factors, our revenues will be adversely affected. our research subscription contracts are typically for 12-months or longer. our ability to maintain contract renewals is subject to numerous factors, including the following: delivering high-quality and timely analysis and advice to our clients; understanding and anticipating market trends and the changing needs of our clients; and providing products and services of the quality and timeliness necessary to withstand competition. additionally, as we continue to adjust our products and service offerings to meet our clients' continuing needs, we may shift the type and pricing of our products which may impact client renewal rates. while our research client retention rate was 84% at both december 31, 2016 and 2015, there can be no guarantee that we will continue to maintain this rate of client renewals. we depend on non-recurring consulting engagements and our failure to secure new engagements could lead to a decrease in our revenues. consulting segment revenues constituted 14% of our total revenues in 2016 and 15% in 2015. consulting engagements typically are project-based and non-recurring. our ability to replace consulting engagements is subject to numerous factors, including the following: delivering consistent, high-quality consulting services to our clients; tailoring our consulting services to the changing needs of our clients; and our ability to match the skills and competencies of our consulting staff to the skills required for the fulfillment of existing or potential consulting engagements. any material decline in our ability to replace consulting engagements could have an adverse impact on our revenues and our financial condition. in addition, revenue from our contract optimization business can fluctuate significantly from period to period and is not predictable. the profitability and success of our conferences, symposia and events could be adversely affected by external factors beyond our control. the market for desirable dates and locations for conferences, symposia and events is highly competitive. if we cannot secure desirable dates and suitable venues for our conferences, symposia and events their profitability could suffer, and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. in addition, because our events are scheduled in advance and held at specific locations, the success of these events can be affected by circumstances outside of our control, such as labor strikes, transportation shutdowns and travel restrictions, economic slowdowns, reductions in government spending, geo-political crises, terrorist attacks, war, weather, natural disasters, communicable diseases, and other occurrences impacting the global, regional, or national economies, the occurrence of any of which could negatively impact the success of the event. we also face the challenge of procuring venues that are sizeable enough at a reasonable cost to accommodate some of our major events. 9 our sales to governments are subject to appropriations and may be terminated. we derive significant revenues from research and consulting contracts with the united states government and its respective agencies, numerous state and local governments and their respective agencies, and foreign governments and their agencies. at december 31, 2016 and 2015, approximately $355.0 million and $345.0 million, respectively, of our total contracts were attributable to government entities. our u.s. government contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations by the u.s. congress to fund the agencies contracting for our services. additionally, our contracts at the state and local levels, as well as foreign government contracts, are subject to various governmental authorizations and funding approvals and mechanisms. in general, most if not all of these contracts may be terminated at any time without cause or penalty ( termination for convenience ). similarly, contracts with u.s. federal, state and local, and foreign governments and their respective agencies are subject to increasingly complex bidding procedures, compliance requirements and intense competition. should appropriations for the governments and agencies that contract with us be curtailed, or should our government contracts be terminated for convenience, we may experience a significant loss of revenues. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel which could jeopardize our future growth plans, as well as the quality of our products and services. our success depends heavily upon the quality of our senior management, research analysts, consultants, sales and other key personnel. we face competition for qualified professionals from, among others, technology companies, market research firms, consulting firms, financial services companies and electronic and print media companies, some of which have a greater ability to attract and compensate these professionals. additionally, some of the personnel that we attempt to hire are subject to non-compete agreements that could impede our short-term recruitment efforts. any inability to retain key personnel, or to hire and train additional qualified personnel to support the evolving needs of clients or the projected growth in our business, could materially adversely affect the quality of our products and services, as well as future business and operating results. we may not be able to maintain the equity in our brand name. we believe that our gartner brand, including our independence, is critical to our efforts to attract and retain clients and that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition increases. we may expand our marketing activities to promote and strengthen the gartner brand and may need to increase our marketing budget, hire additional marketing and public relations personnel, and expend additional sums to protect our brand and otherwise increase expenditures to create and maintain client brand loyalty. if we fail to effectively promote and maintain the gartner brand, or incur excessive expenses in doing so, our future business and operating results could be materially adversely impacted. our international operations expose us to a variety of operational and other risks which could negatively impact our future revenue and growth. we have clients in over 90 countries and a substantial amount of our revenue is earned outside of the united states. our operating results are subject to the risks inherent in international business activities, including general political and economic conditions in each country, changes in market demand as a result of tariffs and other trade barriers, challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations, changes in regulatory requirements, compliance with numerous foreign laws and regulations, and the difficulty of enforcing client agreements, collecting accounts receivable and protecting intellectual property rights in international jurisdictions. furthermore, we rely on local distributors or sales agents in some international locations. if any of these arrangements are terminated by our agent or us, we may not be able to replace the arrangement on beneficial terms or on a timely basis, or clients of the local distributor or sales agent may not want to continue to do business with us or our new agent. our business and operations may be conducted in countries where corruption has historically penetrated the economy. it is our policy to comply, and to require our local partners and those with whom we do business to comply, with all applicable anti-corruption laws, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and u.k. bribery act, and with applicable local laws of the foreign countries in which we operate. our business and reputation may be adversely affected if we fail to comply with such laws. we are exposed to volatility in foreign currency exchange rates from our international operations. for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, 42% and 41%, respectively, of our revenues were derived from sales outside of the united states. revenues earned outside the u.s. are typically transacted in local currencies, which may fluctuate significantly against the u.s. dollar. while we may use forward exchange contracts to a limited extent to seek to mitigate foreign currency risk, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. additionally, our effective tax rate is increased as the u.s dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, which could impact our operating results. natural disasters, terrorist acts, war, and other geo-political events could disrupt our business. we operate in numerous u.s. and international locations, and we have offices in a number of major cities across the globe. a major weather event, earthquake, flood, drought, volcanic activity, disease, or other catastrophic natural disaster could significantly disrupt our operations. in addition, acts of civil unrest, failure of critical infrastructure, terrorism, armed conflict, war, and abrupt political change, as well as responses by various governments and the international community to such acts, can have a negative effect on our business. such events could cause delays in initiating or completing sales, impede delivery of our products and services to our clients, disrupt or shut down the internet or other critical client-facing and business processes, impede the travel of our personnel and clients, dislocate our critical internal functions and personnel, and in general harm our ability to conduct normal business operations, any of which 10 can negatively impact our financial condition and operating results. such events could also impact the timing and budget decisions of our clients, which could materially adversely affect our business. privacy concerns could damage our reputation and deter current and potential clients from using our products and services or attending our events. concerns relating to global data privacy have the potential to damage our reputation and deter current and prospective clients from using our products and services or attending our events. in the ordinary course of our business and in accordance with applicable laws, we collect personal information (i) from our employees (ii) from the users of our products and services, including event attendees; and (iii) from prospective clients. we collect only basic personal information from our clients and prospects (name, email address, job title) and do not as a rule collect sensitive personal information like the social security numbers used in the united states. while we may collect credit card numbers on a limited basis from some clients to facilitate payment, we do not store such numbers. even if unfounded, concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure, or security of this personal information or other data privacy related matters could damage our reputation and materially adversely affect our operating results. in addition, because many of our products and services are web-based, the amount of data we store on our servers (including personal information) has been increasing. any systems failure or compromise of our security that results in the disclosure of our users' personal data could seriously limit the consumption of our products and services and the attendance at our events, as well as harm our reputation and brand and, therefore, our business. in addition, while we had been a safe harbor certified company for a number of years, and while we have implemented a company-wide privacy compliance program, regulatory authorities around the world continue to adopt new laws, regulations and penalties concerning data privacy. most recently, the european commission adopted the eu-us privacy shield framework (which, as of the date of this report, has undergone a number of legal challenges as to its validity), and the european parliament formally adopted the general data protection regulation ( gdpr ) which will become effective in may 2018 . we are closely monitoring these legal developments and are working towards timely gdpr compliance. in the meantime, gartner will continue to maintain and rely upon our comprehensive global data privacy compliance program and robust processes to safeguard our associates' and clients' personal data. the interpretation and application of these laws in the united states, the european union and elsewhere are often uncertain, inconsistent and ever changing. it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data privacy practices. complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. internet and critical internal computer system failures, cyber-attacks, or compromises of our systems or security could damage our reputation and harm our business. a significant portion of our business is conducted over the internet and we rely heavily on computer systems to conduct our operations. individuals, groups, and state-sponsored organizations may take steps that pose threats to our operations, our computer systems, our employees, and our customers. they may develop and deploy malicious software to gain access to our networks and attempt to steal confidential information, launch distributed denial of service attacks, or attempt other coordinated disruptions. these threats are constantly evolving and becoming more sophisticated, thereby increasing the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. a cyber-attack, widespread internet failure or internet access limitations, or disruption of our critical information technology systems through denial of service, viruses, or other events could cause delays in initiating or completing sales, impede delivery of our products and services to our clients, disrupt other critical client-facing or business processes, or dislocate our critical internal functions. such events could significantly harm our ability to conduct normal business operations and negatively impact our financial results. we take steps to secure our management information systems, including our computer systems, intranet, proprietary websites, email and other telecommunications and data networks, and we carefully scrutinize the security of outsourced website and service providers prior to retaining their services. however, the security measures implemented by us or by our outside service providers may not be effective and our systems (and those of our outside service providers) may be vulnerable to theft, loss, damage and interruption from a number of potential sources and events, including unauthorized access or security breaches, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, power loss, or other disruptive events. our reputation, brand, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected if, as a result of a significant cyber event or other technology-related catastrophe, our operations are disrupted or shutdown; our confidential, proprietary information is stolen or disclosed; we incur costs or are required to pay fines in connection with stolen customer, employee, or other confidential information; we are required to dedicate significant resources to system repairs or increase cyber security protection; or we otherwise incur significant litigation or other costs as a result of these occurrences. we may experience outages and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure. our increasing user traffic and complexity of our products and services demand more computing power. we have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to maintain data centers and equipment, to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle increased traffic on our websites, and to deliver our products and services through emerging channels, such as mobile applications. however, any inefficiencies or operational failures could diminish the quality of our products, services, 11 and user experience, resulting in damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, potentially harming our financial condition and operating results. our outstanding debt obligations could impact our financial condition or future operating results. we have a credit arrangement that provides for a five-year, $600.0 million term loan and a $1.2 billion secured five year revolving credit facility (the 2016 credit agreement ). the 2016 credit agreement was amended on january 20, 2017 to permit the acquisition of ceb and the incurrence of an additional $1.375 billion senior secured term loan b facility, a $300.0 million 364-day senior unsecured bridge facility and a senior unsecured high-yield bridge facility of up to $600.0 million (or the issuance of a corresponding amount of debt securities (the "notes")) to finance, in part, the acquisition and repay certain debt of ceb, and to modify certain covenants (the "first amendment"). in connection with financing the ceb acquisition, the company has also received a commitment with respect to $600.0 million unsecured senior bridge facilities. the 2016 credit agreement contains an expansion feature by which the term loan and revolving facility may be increased, at our option and under certain conditions, by up to an additional $750.0 million in the aggregate plus additional amounts subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including a maximum secured leverage ratio. at december 31, 2016, we had a total of $700.0 million outstanding under the 2016 credit agreement. the affirmative, negative and financial covenants of the 2016 credit agreement, as amended, as well as the covenants related to the notes, by the first amendment, could limit our future financial flexibility. additionally, a failure to comply with these covenants could result in acceleration of all amounts outstanding under the 2016 credit agreement and the notes, which would materially impact our financial condition unless accommodations could be negotiated with our lenders and noteholders. no assurance can be given that we would be successful in doing so, or that any accommodations that we were able to negotiate would be on terms as favorable as those presently contained in the 2016 credit agreement. the associated debt service costs of these credit arrangements could impair our future operating results. the outstanding debt may limit the amount of cash or additional credit available to us, which could restrain our ability to expand or enhance products and services, respond to competitive pressures or pursue future business opportunities requiring substantial investments of additional capital. we may require additional cash resources which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. we may require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions, implementation of our strategy and stock repurchase program, to repay indebtedness or to pursue future business opportunities requiring substantial investments of additional capital, including acquisitions. if our existing financial resources are insufficient to satisfy our requirements, we may seek additional borrowings or issue debt. prevailing credit and debt market conditions may negatively affect debt availability and cost, and, as a result, financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. in addition, the incurrence of additional indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could require us to agree to operating and financial covenants that would further restrict our operations. if we are unable to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights our competitive position may be harmed. we rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, patent, confidentiality, non-compete and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property rights. despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized third parties may obtain and use technology or other information that we regard as proprietary. our intellectual property rights may not survive a legal challenge to their validity or provide significant protection for us. the laws of certain countries, particularly in emerging markets, do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. accordingly, we may not be able to protect our intellectual property against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. additionally, there can be no assurance that another party will not assert that we have infringed its intellectual property rights. our employees are subject to non-compete agreements, non-solicitation agreements and assignment of invention agreements, to the extent permitted under applicable law. when the non-competition period expires, former employees may compete against us. if a former employee chooses to compete against us prior to the expiration of the non-competition period, we seek to enforce these non-compete provisions but there is no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts. we have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions and strategic investments, which could involve substantial risks. we have made and may continue to make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses that offer complementary products and services or otherwise support our growth objectives. the risks involved in each acquisition or investment include the possibility of paying more than the value we derive from the acquisition, dilution of the interests of our current stockholders should we issue stock in the acquisition, decreased working capital, increased indebtedness, the assumption of undisclosed liabilities and unknown and unforeseen risks, the ability to retain key personnel of the acquired company, the inability to integrate the business of the acquired company, the time to train the sales force to market and sell the products of the acquired business, the potential disruption of our ongoing business and the distraction of management from our day to day business. the realization of any of these risks could adversely affect our business. additionally, we face competition in identifying acquisition targets and consummating acquisitions. 12 we face risks related to litigation. we are, and in the future may be, subject to a variety of legal actions, such as employment, breach of contract, intellectual property-related, and business torts, including claims of unfair trade practices and misappropriation of trade secrets. given the nature of our business, we are also subject to defamation (including libel and slander), negligence, or other claims relating to the information we publish. regardless of the merits and despite vigorous efforts to defend any such claim can affect our reputation, and responding to any such claim could be time consuming, result in costly litigation and require us to enter into settlements, royalty and licensing agreements which may not be offered or available on reasonable terms. if a claim is made against us which we cannot defend or resolve on reasonable terms, our business, brand, and financial results could be materially adversely affected. we face risks related to taxation . we are a global company with clients in over 90 countries. a substantial amount of our earnings is generated outside of the united states and taxed at rates significantly less than the u.s. statutory federal income tax rate. our effective tax rate, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected by earnings being higher than anticipated in jurisdictions with higher statutory tax rates and, conversely, lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and/or by changes in tax laws or accounting principles and their interpretation by relevant authorities. at the present time, the united states and other countries where we do business have either changed or are actively considering changes in their tax, accounting and other related laws. in the united states, proposed and other tax law changes, particularly those directed at taxing unremitted and future foreign earnings, could increase our effective tax rate. in 2014, ireland modified its tax residency rules. while these changes are not effective until 2021 for many companies with irish resident operations, including gartner, the new rules could increase our effective tax rate at that future date. likewise, during 2015, the organization for economic development and cooperation ( oecd ) released final reports on various actions items associated with its initiative to prevent base erosion and profit shifting ( beps). the future enactment by various governments of these and future oecd proposals could significantly increase our tax obligations in many countries where we do business. these actual, potential, and other changes, both individually and collectively, could materially increase our effective tax rate and negatively impact our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. in addition, our tax filings for various years are subject to examination by domestic and international taxing authorities and, during the ordinary course of business, we are under audit by various tax authorities. recent and future actions on the part of the oecd and various governments will likely result in increased scrutiny of our tax filings. although we believe that our tax filings and related accruals are reasonable, the final resolution of tax audits may be materially different from what is reflected in our historical tax provisions and accruals and could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows, particularly in major taxing jurisdictions including, but not limited to: the united states, ireland, india, canada, united kingdom, japan, and france. as of december 31, 2016, we had approximately $340.0 million of accumulated undistributed earnings in our non-u.s. subsidiaries. under u.s. gaap rules, no provision for income taxes that may result from the remittance of such earnings is required if the company has the ability and intent to reinvest such funds overseas indefinitely. our current plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate these undistributed earnings to fund our u.s. operations or otherwise satisfy the liquidity needs of our u.s. operations. we intend to reinvest these earnings in our non-u.s. operations, except in instances in which the repatriation of these earnings would result in minimal additional tax. as a result, the company has not recognized income tax expense that could result from the remittance of these earnings. however, future events such as a change in our liquidity needs or u.s. tax laws could cause us to change our repatriation policy and decide to repatriate some or all of these undistributed earnings. as a result, we could be required to accrue additional taxes in the future which could have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, cash flows and results of operations in future periods. our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. we operate in a number of countries, including emerging markets, and as a result we are required to comply with numerous, and in many cases, changing international and u.s. federal, state and local laws and regulations. as a result, we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program which includes the creation of appropriate policies defining employee behavior that mandate adherence to laws, employee training, annual affirmations, monitoring and enforcement. however, if any employee fails to comply with, or intentionally disregards, any of these laws, regulations or our policies, a range of liabilities could result for the employee and for the company, including, but not limited to, significant penalties and fines, sanctions and/or litigation, and the expenses associated with defending and resolving any of the foregoing, any of which could have a negative impact on our reputation and business. 13 risks related to our common stock our operating results may fluctuate from period to period and/or the financial guidance we have given may not meet the expectations of investors, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate in the future as a result of many factors, including the timing of the execution of research contracts, the extent of completion of consulting engagements, the timing of symposia and other events, the amount of new business generated, the mix of domestic and international business, currency fluctuations, changes in market demand for our products and services, the timing of the development, introduction and marketing of new products and services, competition in our industry, the impact of our acquisitions, and general economic conditions. an inability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flow, and achieve our forecasts, may impact our operating and other activities. the potential fluctuations in our operating results could cause period-to-period comparisons of operating results not to be meaningful and may provide an unreliable indication of future operating results. furthermore, our operating results may not meet the expectations of investors or the financial guidance we have previously provided. if this occurs, the price of our common stock could decline. our stock price may be impacted by factors outside of our control and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid. the price of our common stock is subject to significant fluctuations in response to, among other factors, developments in the industries in which we do business, general economic conditions, general market conditions, geo-political events, changes in the nature and composition of our stockholder base, changes in securities analysts' recommendations regarding our securities and our performance relative to securities analysts' expectations for any quarterly period, as well as other factors outside of our control including any and all factors that move the securities markets generally. these factors may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our stock price. sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock in the public market by our current stockholders, or the threat that substantial sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease significantly or make it difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling stock. furthermore, we have various equity incentive plans that provide for awards in the form of stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other stock-based awards which have the effect of adding shares of common stock into the public market. at the present time, we are executing against a board-approved share repurchase program to reduce the number of outstanding shares of our common stock. at december 31, 2016, approximately $1.1 billion remained available for share purchases under this program. no assurance can be given that we will continue these activities in the future when the program is completed, or in the event that the price of our common stock reaches levels at which repurchases are not accretive. future sales of our common stock from grants and awards could lower our stock price. as of december 31, 2016, the aggregate number of shares of our common stock issuable pursuant to outstanding grants and awards under our equity incentive plans was approximately 2.6 million shares (approximately 1.5 million of which have vested). in addition, at the present time, approximately 6.2 million shares may be issued in connection with future awards under our equity incentive plans. shares of common stock issued under these plans are freely transferable and have been registered under the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act ), except for any shares held by affiliates (as that term is defined in rule 144 under the securities act) which are subject to certain limitations. we cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. interests of certain of our significant stockholders may conflict with yours . to our knowledge, as of the date hereof, and based upon publicly-available sec filings, three institutional investors each presently hold over 5% of our common stock. while no stockholder or institutional investor individually holds a majority of our outstanding shares, these significant stockholders may be able, either individually or acting together, to exercise significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation, adoption or amendment of equity plans and approval of significant transactions such as mergers, acquisitions, consolidations and sales or purchases of assets. in addition, in the event of a proposed acquisition of the company by a third party, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change of control in us. accordingly, the interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, or otherwise be in the best interests of us or all stockholders. our anti-takeover protections may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and delaware law may make it difficult for any party to acquire control of us in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. these provisions include: (i) the ability of our board of directors to issue and determine the terms of preferred stock; (ii) advance notice requirements for inclusion of stockholder proposals at stockholder meetings; and (iii) the anti-takeover provisions of delaware law. these provisions could discourage or prevent a change of control or change in management that might provide stockholders with a premium to the market price of their common stock. 14 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 36 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate risk the company's 2016 credit agreement provides for a five-year, $600.0 million term loan and a $1.2 billion revolving credit facility. at december 31, 2016, we had $700.0 million outstanding under the 2016 credit agreement, which included $585.0 million outstanding under the term loan and $115.0 million under the revolver. the 2016 credit agreement was amended on january 20, 2017 to permit the acquisition of ceb and the incurrence of an additional $1.375 billion senior secured term loan b facility, $300.0 million 364-day senior unsecured bridge facility and a senior unsecured high-yield bridge facility of up to $600.0 million (or the issuance of a corresponding amount of debt securities) to finance, in part, the acquisition and repay certain debt of ceb and to modify certain covenants. in addition, in connection with financing the ceb acquisition, the company has received a commitment with respect to $600.0 million senior unsecured bridge facilities. we have cash flow exposure to changes in interest rates since amounts currently borrowed under our 2016 credit agreement are based on a floating base rate of interest. however, we reduce our exposure to changes in interest rates through our interest rate swap contracts which effectively convert the floating base interest rate on the first $700.0 million of our variable rate borrowings to fixed rates. thus we are exposed to interest rate risk on borrowings under the 2016 credit agreement only if our borrowings exceed $700.0 million. at december 31, 2016, the amount of unhedged borrowings under the 2016 credit agreement was zero. foreign currency risk for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, 42% and 41%, respectively, of our revenues were derived from sales outside of the united states. we conduct business in numerous currencies other than the u.s dollar. among the major foreign currencies in which we conduct business are the euro, the british pound, the japanese yen, the australian dollar, and the canadian dollar. the reporting currency of our consolidated financial statements is the u.s. dollar. as the values of the foreign currencies in which we operate fluctuate over time relative to the u.s. dollar, the company is exposed to both foreign currency translation and transaction risk. translation risk arises as our foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated into u.s. dollars since the functional currencies of our foreign operations are generally denominated in the local currency. adjustments resulting from the translation of these assets and liabilities are deferred and recorded as a component of stockholders' equity (deficit). a measure of the potential impact of foreign currency translation can be determined through a sensitivity analysis of our cash and cash equivalents. at december 31, 2016, we had $474.2 million of cash and cash equivalents, with a substantial portion denominated in foreign currencies. if the exchange rates of the foreign currencies we hold all changed in comparison to the u.s. dollar by 10%, the amount of cash and cash equivalents we would have reported on december 31, 2016 would have increased or decreased by approximately $21.0 million. the translation of our foreign currency revenues and expenses historically has not had a material impact on our consolidated earnings since movements in and among the major currencies in which we operate tend to impact our revenues and expenses fairly equally. however, our earnings could be impacted during periods of significant exchange rate volatility, or when some or all of the major currencies in which we operate move in the same direction against the u.s dollar. transaction risk arises because our foreign subsidiaries enter into transactions that are denominated in a currency that may differ from the local functional currency. as these transactions are translated into the local functional currency, a gain or loss may result, which is recorded in current period earnings. we typically enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to mitigate the effects of some of this foreign currency transaction risk. our outstanding currency contracts as of december 31, 2016 had an immaterial net unrealized loss. 36 credit risk financial instruments that potentially subject the company to concentration of credit risk consist primarily of short-term, highly liquid investments classified as cash equivalents, accounts receivable, and interest rate swap contracts and foreign exchange contracts. the majority of the company's cash and cash equivalents, interest rate swap contracts, and its foreign exchange contracts are with large investment grade commercial banks. accounts receivable balances deemed to be collectible from customers have a limited concentration of credit risk due to our diverse customer base and geographic dispersion.risk factors 6 risk factors we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. in addition, we and our clients are affected by global economic conditions and trends. the following sections discuss many, but not all, of the risks and uncertainties that may affect our future performance, but is not intended to be all-inclusive. any of the risks described below could have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows, and could therefore have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. additional risks not currently known to us or that we now deem immaterial may also harm us and negatively affect your investment. risks related to our business on april 5, 2017, gartner acquired ceb inc. ("ceb"). references to "heritage gartner" operating results and business measurements refer to gartner excluding ceb. references to ceb refer to the operating results and business measurements of ceb subsequent to the acquisition. our operating results could be negatively impacted by global economic conditions. our business is impacted by general economic conditions and trends, in the united states and abroad. in its january 2018 global economic prospects report, the world bank 6 notes that global growth is expected to continue while substantial downside risks are present, to include financial stress, protectionism, and geopolitical change. we also believe that terrorist attacks around the world have added additional uncertainty and risks to the economic environment. a downturn in growth could negatively and materially affect future demand for our products and services in general, in certain geographic regions, or in particular countries or industry sectors. such difficulties could include the ability to maintain client retention, wallet retention and consulting utilization rates, achieve contract value and consulting backlog growth, and attract attendees and exhibitors to our events. such developments could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we face significant competition and our failure to compete successfully could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. we face direct competition from a significant number of independent providers of information products and services, including information available on the internet free of charge. we also compete indirectly against consulting firms and other information providers, including electronic and print media companies, some of which may have greater financial, information gathering and marketing resources than we do. these indirect competitors could also choose to compete directly with us in the future. in addition, low barriers to entry exist in the markets in which we do business. as a result, new competitors may emerge and existing competitors may start to provide additional or complementary services. additionally, technological advances may provide increased competition from a variety of sources. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete against current and future competitors and our failure to do so could result in loss of market share, diminished value in our products and services, reduced pricing and increased marketing expenditures. furthermore, we may not be successful if we cannot compete effectively on quality of research and analysis, timely delivery of information, customer service, the ability to offer products to meet changing market needs for information and analysis, or price. we may not be able to maintain the quality of our existing products and services. we operate in a rapidly evolving market, and our success depends upon our ability to deliver high quality and timely research and analysis to our clients. any failure to continue to provide credible and reliable information and advice that is useful to our clients could have a material adverse effect on future business and operating results. further, if our published data, opinions or viewpoints prove to be wrong, lack independence, or are not substantiated by appropriate research, our reputation may suffer and demand for our products and services may decline. in addition, we must continue to improve our methods for delivering our products and services in a cost-effective manner via the internet and mobile applications. failure to maintain state of the art electronic delivery capabilities could materially adversely affect our future business and operating results. we may not be able to enhance and develop our existing products and services, or introduce the new products and services that are needed to remain competitive. the market for our products and services is characterized by rapidly changing needs for information and analysis. the development of new products is a complex and time-consuming process. nonetheless, to maintain our competitive position, we must continue to anticipate the needs of our client organizations, develop, enhance and improve our existing as well as new products and services to address those needs, deliver all products and services in a timely, user-friendly and state of the art manner, and appropriately position and price new products and services relative to the marketplace and our costs of developing them. any failure to achieve successful client acceptance of new products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. additionally, significant delays in new product or service releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. as a result of the acquisition of ceb in 2017, a portion of our revenue is now derived from products, services, and tools that relate to human talent assessment, management, and development, which were new products for the company. revenue from these activities is concentrated in our talent assessment &amp; other business segment. revenue from these activities is affected in part by our ability to create new offerings as demand changes, and our ability to support existing offerings. if we fail to successfully manage and grow this new business, our operating results, financial condition, and liquidity could be negatively impacted. also, economic downturns in certain segments or geographic regions may cause reductions in discretionary spending by our customers, which may adversely affect our ability to maintain or grow the volume of business. technology is rapidly evolving, and if we do not continue to develop new product and service offerings in response to these changes, our business could suffer. disruptive technologies are rapidly changing the environment in which we, our clients, and our competitors operate. we will need to continue to respond to these changes by enhancing our product and service offerings in order to maintain our competitive position. however, we may not be successful in responding to these forces and enhance our products on a timely basis, and any enhancements we develop may not adequately address the changing needs of our clients. our future success will depend upon our ability to develop and introduce in a timely manner new or enhanced existing offerings that address the changing needs of this constantly evolving marketplace. failure to develop products that meet the needs of our clients in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position. 7 our research business depends on renewals of subscription-based services and sales of new subscription-based services for a significant portion of our revenue, and our failure to renew at historical rates or generate new sales of such services could lead to a decrease in our revenues. a large portion of our success depends on our ability to generate renewals of our subscription-based research products and services and new sales of such products and services, both to new clients and existing clients. these products and services constituted approximately 70% and 71% of our total revenues for 2017 and 2016, respectively. generating new sales of our subscription-based products and services, both to new and existing clients, is a challenging, costly, and often time consuming process. if we are unable to generate new sales, due to competition or other factors, our revenues will be adversely affected. our research subscription contracts are typically for 12-months or longer. our ability to maintain contract renewals is subject to numerous factors, including the following: delivering high-quality and timely analysis and advice to our clients; understanding and anticipating market trends and the changing needs of our clients; and providing products and services of the quality and timeliness necessary to withstand competition. additionally, as we continue to adjust our products and service offerings to meet our clients' continuing needs, we may shift the type and pricing of our products which may impact client renewal rates. while our heritage research client retention rate was 84% at both december 31, 2017 and 2016, there can be no guarantee that we will continue to maintain this rate of client renewals. our consulting business depends on non-recurring engagements and our failure to secure new engagements could lead to a decrease in our revenues. consulting segment revenues constituted 10% of our total revenues in 2017 and 14% in 2016. consulting engagements typically are project-based and non-recurring. our ability to replace consulting engagements is subject to numerous factors, including the following: delivering consistent, high-quality consulting services to our clients; tailoring our consulting services to the changing needs of our clients; and our ability to match the skills and competencies of our consulting staff to the skills required for the fulfillment of existing or potential consulting engagements. any material decline in our ability to replace consulting engagements could have an adverse impact on our revenues and our financial condition. in addition, revenue from our contract optimization business can fluctuate significantly from period to period and is not predictable. the profitability and success of our conferences, symposia and events could be adversely affected by external factors beyond our control. our events business constituted 10% of our total revenues in 2017 and 11% in 2016. the market for desirable dates and locations for conferences, symposia and events is highly competitive. if we cannot secure desirable dates and suitable venues for our conferences, symposia and events their profitability could suffer, and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. in addition, because our events are scheduled in advance and held at specific locations, the success of these events can be affected by circumstances outside of our control, such as labor strikes, transportation shutdowns and travel restrictions, economic slowdowns, reductions in government spending, geopolitical crises, terrorist attacks, war, weather, natural disasters, communicable diseases, and other occurrences impacting the global, regional, or national economies, the occurrence of any of which could negatively impact the success of the event. we also face the challenge of procuring venues that are sizeable enough at a reasonable cost to accommodate some of our major events. our sales to governments are subject to appropriations and may be terminated. we derive significant revenues from research and consulting contracts with the united states government and its respective agencies, numerous state and local governments and their respective agencies, and foreign governments and their agencies. at december 31, 2017 and 2016, approximately $435.0 million and $355.0 million, respectively, of our contracts were attributable to government entities. our u.s. government contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations by the u.s. congress to fund the agencies contracting for our services. additionally, our contracts at the state and local levels, as well as foreign government contracts, are subject to various governmental authorizations and funding approvals and mechanisms. in general, most if not all of these contracts may be terminated at any time by the government entity without cause or penalty ( termination for convenience ). in addition, contracts with u.s. federal, state and local, and foreign governments and their respective agencies are subject to increasingly complex bidding procedures, compliance 8 requirements and intense competition. should appropriations for the governments and agencies that contract with us be curtailed, or should our government contracts be terminated for convenience, we may experience a significant loss of revenues. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel which could jeopardize our future growth plans, as well as the quality of our products and services. our success depends heavily upon the quality of our senior management, research analysts, consultants, sales and other key personnel. we face competition for qualified professionals from, among others, technology companies, market research firms, consulting firms, financial services companies and electronic and print media companies, some of which have a greater ability to attract and compensate these professionals. additionally, some of the personnel that we attempt to hire are subject to non-compete agreements that could impede our short-term recruitment efforts. any inability to retain key personnel, or to hire and train additional qualified personnel to support the evolving needs of clients or the projected growth in our business, could materially adversely affect the quality of our products and services, as well as future business and operating results. we may not be able to maintain the equity in our brand name. we believe that our gartner brand, in particular our independence, is critical to our efforts to attract and retain clients and that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition increases. we may expand our marketing activities to promote and strengthen the gartner brand and may need to increase our marketing budget, hire additional marketing and public relations personnel, and expend additional sums to protect our brand and otherwise increase expenditures to create and maintain client brand loyalty. if we fail to effectively promote, maintain, and protect the gartner brand, or incur excessive expenses in doing so, our future business and operating results could be materially adversely impacted. our international operations expose us to a variety of operational and other risks which could negatively impact our future revenue and growth. we have clients in more than 100 countries and a substantial amount of our revenue is earned outside of the united states. our operating results are subject to the risks inherent in international business activities, including general political and economic conditions in each country, changes in market demand as a result of tariffs and other trade barriers, challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations, changes in regulatory requirements, compliance with numerous foreign laws and regulations, and the difficulty of enforcing client agreements, collecting accounts receivable and protecting intellectual property rights or against economic espionage in international jurisdictions. furthermore, we rely on local distributors or sales agents in some international locations. if any of these arrangements are terminated by our agent or us, we may not be able to replace the arrangement on beneficial terms or on a timely basis, or clients of the local distributor or sales agent may not want to continue to do business with us or our new agent. our business and operations may be conducted in countries where corruption has historically penetrated the economy. it is our policy to comply, and to require our local partners and those with whom we do business to comply, with all applicable anti-corruption laws, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and u.k. bribery act, and with applicable local laws of the foreign countries in which we operate. our business and reputation may be adversely affected if we fail to comply with such laws. we are exposed to volatility in foreign currency exchange rates from our international operations. for both the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, 42% of our revenues were derived from sales outside of the united states. revenues earned outside the u.s. are typically transacted in local currencies, which may fluctuate significantly against the u.s. dollar. while we may use forward exchange contracts to a limited extent to seek to mitigate foreign currency risk, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. additionally, our effective tax rate is increased as the u.s dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, which could impact our operating results. natural disasters, terrorist acts, war, and other geopolitical events could disrupt our business. we operate in numerous u.s. and international locations, and we have offices in a number of major cities across the globe. a major weather event, earthquake, flood, drought, volcanic activity, disease, or other catastrophic natural disaster could significantly disrupt our operations. in addition, acts of civil unrest, failure of critical infrastructure, terrorism, armed conflict, war, and abrupt political change, as well as responses by various governments and the international community to such acts, can have a negative effect on our business. such events could cause delays in initiating or completing sales, impede delivery of our products and services to our clients, disrupt or shut down the internet or other critical client-facing and business processes, impede the travel of our personnel and clients, dislocate our critical internal functions and personnel, and in general harm our ability to conduct normal business operations, any of which can negatively impact our financial condition and operating results. such events could also impact the timing and budget decisions of our clients, which could materially adversely affect our business. privacy concerns could damage our reputation and deter current and potential clients from using our products and services or attending our events. concerns relating to global data privacy have the potential to damage our reputation and deter current and prospective clients from using our products and services or attending our events. in the ordinary course of our business and in accordance with applicable laws, we collect personal information (i) from our employees (ii) from the users of our products and services, including event attendees; and (iii) from prospective clients. we collect only basic personal information from our clients 9 and prospects. while we believe our overall data privacy procedures are adequate, the theft or loss of such data, or concerns about our practices, even if unfounded, with regard to the collection, use, disclosure, or security of this personal information or other data protection related matters could damage our reputation and materially adversely affect our operating results. any systems failure or compromise of our security that results in the disclosure of our users' personal data could seriously limit the consumption of our products and services and the attendance at our events, as well as harm our reputation and brand and, therefore, our business. in addition, new data protection laws and regulations, particularly the new european union general data protection regulation ( gdpr ) (effective in may 2018), pose increasingly complex compliance challenges. we are closely monitoring these legal developments and are working towards timely gdpr compliance. in the meantime, gartner will continue to maintain and rely upon our comprehensive global data protection compliance program, which includes administrative, technical, and physical controls to safeguard our associates' and clients' personal data. the interpretation and application of these laws in the united states, the european union and elsewhere are often uncertain, inconsistent and ever changing. complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. internet and critical internal computer system failures, cyber-attacks, or compromises of our systems or security could damage our reputation and harm our business. a significant portion of our business is conducted over the internet and we rely heavily on computer systems to conduct our operations. individuals, groups, and state-sponsored organizations may take steps that pose threats to our operations, our computer systems, our employees, and our customers. they may develop and deploy malicious software to gain access to our networks and attempt to steal confidential information, launch distributed denial of service attacks, or attempt other coordinated disruptions. these threats are constantly evolving and becoming more sophisticated, thereby increasing the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. a cyber-attack, widespread internet failure or internet access limitations, or disruption of our critical information technology systems through denial of service, viruses, or other events could cause delays in initiating or completing sales, impede delivery of our products and services to our clients, disrupt other critical client-facing or business processes, or dislocate our critical internal functions. such events could significantly harm our ability to conduct normal business operations and negatively impact our financial results. we take steps to secure our management information systems, including our computer systems, intranet, proprietary websites, email and other telecommunications and data networks, and we carefully scrutinize the security of outsourced website and service providers prior to retaining their services. however, the security measures implemented by us or by our outside service providers may not be effective and our systems (and those of our outside service providers) may be vulnerable to theft, loss, damage and interruption from a number of potential sources and events, including unauthorized access or security breaches, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, power loss, or other disruptive events. our reputation, brand, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected if, as a result of a significant cyber event or other technology-related catastrophe, our operations are disrupted or shutdown; our confidential, proprietary information is stolen or disclosed; we incur costs or are required to pay fines in connection with stolen customer, employee, or other confidential information; we are required to dedicate significant resources to system repairs or increase cyber security protection; or we otherwise incur significant litigation, regulatory action and scrutiny or other costs as a result of these occurrences. we may experience outages and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure. our increasing user traffic and complexity of our products and services demand more computing power. we have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to maintain data centers and equipment, to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle increased traffic on our websites, and to deliver our products and services through emerging channels, such as mobile applications. however, any inefficiencies or operational failures could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience, resulting in damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, potentially harming our financial condition and operating results. our outstanding debt obligations could negatively impact our financial condition and future operating results. as of december 31, 2017, the company had outstanding debt of $2.5 billion under its 2016 term loan and revolving credit facility (the "2016 credit agreement") and $800.0 million of senior notes due 2025 ("senior notes"). the 2016 credit agreement was amended three times during 2017 and it currently provides for a $1.5 billion term loan a facility, a $500.0 million term loan b facility, and a $1.2 billion revolving credit facility. the company borrowed significant amounts in 2017 under the 2016 credit agreement, and issued the senior notes, in conjunction with the ceb acquisition. additional information regarding the 2016 credit facility and the senior notes is included in note 5 debt in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. the debt service requirements of these credit arrangements could impair our future financial condition and operating results. in addition, the affirmative, negative and financial covenants of the 2016 credit agreement, as amended, as well as the covenants related to the senior notes, could limit our future financial flexibility. a failure to comply with these covenants could result in acceleration of all amounts outstanding, which could materially impact our financial condition unless accommodations could be 10 negotiated with our lenders and noteholders. no assurance can be given that we would be successful in doing so, or that any accommodations that we were able to negotiate would be on terms as favorable as those currently. the outstanding debt may limit the amount of cash or additional credit available to us, which could restrain our ability to expand or enhance products and services, respond to competitive pressures or pursue future business opportunities requiring substantial investments of additional capital. we may require additional cash resources which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. we may require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions, implementation of our strategy and stock repurchase program, to repay indebtedness or to pursue future business opportunities requiring substantial investments of additional capital, including acquisitions. if our existing financial resources are insufficient to satisfy our requirements, we may seek additional borrowings or issue debt. prevailing credit and debt market conditions may negatively affect debt availability and cost, and, as a result, financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. in addition, the incurrence of additional indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could require us to agree to operating and financial covenants that would further restrict our operations. if we are unable to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights our competitive position may be harmed. we rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, patent, confidentiality, non-compete and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property rights. despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized third parties may obtain and use technology or other information that we regard as proprietary. our intellectual property rights may not survive a legal challenge to their validity or provide significant protection for us. the laws of certain countries, particularly in emerging markets, do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. accordingly, we may not be able to protect our intellectual property against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. additionally, there can be no assurance that another party will not assert that we have infringed its intellectual property rights. our employees are subject to restrictive covenant agreements (which include restrictions on employees' ability to compete and solicit customers and employees) and assignment of invention agreements, to the extent permitted under applicable law. when the period expires relating to the particular restriction, former employees may compete against us. if a former employee violates the provisions of his/her restrictive covenant agreement, we seek to enforce the restrictions but there is no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts. we have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions and strategic investments, which could involve substantial risks. we have made and may continue to make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses that offer complementary products and services or otherwise support our growth objectives. the risks involved in each acquisition or investment include the possibility of paying more than the value we derive from the acquisition, dilution of the interests of our current stockholders should we issue stock in the acquisition, decreased working capital, increased indebtedness, the assumption of undisclosed liabilities and unknown and unforeseen risks, the ability to retain key personnel of the acquired company, the inability to integrate the business of the acquired company, the time to train the sales force to market and sell the products of the acquired business, the potential disruption of our ongoing business and the distraction of management from our day to day business. the realization of any of these risks could adversely affect our business. additionally, we face competition in identifying acquisition targets and consummating acquisitions. our business has increased significantly with the ceb acquisition. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to continue to integrate its operations as well as manage the overall expanded business, which poses substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations, new products, and associated increased cost and complexity. a failure to realize the expected benefits from the acquisition or successfully manage the expanded operation could adversely and materially affect our future business and operating results. we face risks related to leased office space. with the ceb acquisition we assumed a significant amount of additional leased office space, in particular in arlington, virginia, which formerly served as ceb's headquarters location, and where the majority of its staff is currently located. gartner is continuing with a plan originally approved by ceb before the acquisition to relocate and consolidate its office space in arlington into a new, nearby building, and sublease the entirety of the existing space. the consolidation into the new building is expected to be completed in the first half of 2018 with the first set of moves already completed in december 2017. we have also made significant progress in subleasing the existing space and we expect to sublease all of the remaining space during 2018. however, if we are unable to sublease the remaining existing space at acceptable rents or at all, or if subtenants default on their sublease obligation with us or otherwise terminate the subleases with us, we may experience a loss of planned sublease rental income, which could result in a material charge which could adversely affect our operating results. we are also in the process of adding new leased space. if the new spaces are not completed on schedule, or if the landlord defaults on its commitments and obligations pursuant to the new leases, we may incur additional expenses. in addition, unanticipated difficulties in initiating operations in this new space, including construction delays, it system interruptions, or other infrastructure 11 support problems, could result in a delay in moving into the new space, resulting in a loss of employee and operational productivity and a loss of revenue and/or additional expenses, which could also have an adverse, material impact on our operating results. we face risks related to litigation. we are, and in the future may be, subject to a variety of legal actions, such as employment, breach of contract, intellectual property-related, and business torts, including claims of unfair trade practices and misappropriation of trade secrets. given the nature of our business, we are also subject to defamation (including libel and slander), negligence, or other claims relating to the information we publish. regardless of the merits and despite vigorous efforts to defend any such claim can affect our reputation, and responding to any such claim could be time consuming, result in costly litigation and require us to enter into settlements, royalty and licensing agreements which may not be offered or available on reasonable terms. if a claim is made against us which we cannot defend or resolve on reasonable terms, our business, brand, and financial results could be materially adversely affected. we face risks related to taxation . we are a global company and a substantial amount of our earnings is generated outside of the united states and taxed at rates less than the u.s. statutory federal income tax rate. our effective tax rate, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected by earnings being higher than anticipated in jurisdictions with higher statutory tax rates and, conversely, lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and/or by changes in tax laws or accounting principles and their interpretation by relevant authorities. at the present time, the united states and other countries where we do business have either changed or are actively considering changes in their tax, accounting and other related laws. in the united states, recently enacted tax reform introduced several new complicated tax laws which could unfavorably impact our future effective tax rate. in 2014, ireland modified its tax residency rules. while these changes are not effective until 2021 for many companies with irish resident operations, including gartner, the new rules could increase our effective tax rate at that future date. likewise, during 2015, the organization for economic cooperation and development ( oecd ) released final reports on various actions items associated with its initiative to prevent base erosion and profit shifting ( beps ). numerous countries have and continue to propose unilateral tax law changes intended to address beps. the future enactment by various governments of these and other proposals could significantly increase our tax obligations in many countries where we do business. these actual, potential, and other changes, both individually and collectively, could materially increase our effective tax rate and negatively impact our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. in addition, as regulations and guidance evolve with respect to the u.s. tax cuts and jobs act of 2017, and as we gather more information and perform additional analysis, the impact of the new law may differ from previous estimates and may materially affect our results of operations and financial position in the future. in addition, our tax filings for various years are subject to examination by domestic and international taxing authorities and, during the ordinary course of business, we are under audit by various tax authorities. recent and future actions on the part of the oecd and various governments have increased scrutiny of our tax filings. although we believe that our tax filings and related accruals are reasonable, the final resolution of tax audits may be materially different from what is reflected in our historical tax provisions and accruals and could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows, particularly in major taxing jurisdictions including, but not limited to: the united states, ireland, india, canada, united kingdom, japan, and france. as of december 31, 2017, we had approximately $194.0 million of accumulated undistributed earnings in our non-u.s. subsidiaries. our cash and cash equivalents are held in numerous locations throughout the world. at december 31, 2017, 97% of our cash and cash equivalents was held overseas, with a substantial portion representing accumulated undistributed earnings of our non-u.s. subsidiaries. under u.s. gaap, no provision for income taxes that may result from the remittance of accumulated undistributed foreign earnings is required if the company intends to reinvest such earnings overseas indefinitely. our current liquidity requirements do not demonstrate a need to repatriate accumulated undistributed foreign earnings to fund our u.s. operations or otherwise satisfy the liquidity needs of our u.s. operations. accordingly, the company intends to continue to reinvest substantially all of its accumulated undistributed foreign earnings, except in instances in which the repatriation of those earnings would result in minimal additional tax. as a result, we have not recognized income tax expense on the amounts deemed permanently reinvested. however, with the recently enacted u.s tax cuts and jobs act of 2017, we envision that the income tax that would be payable if such earnings were repatriated would be minimal. our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. we operate in a number of countries, including emerging markets, and as a result we are required to comply with numerous, and in many cases, changing international and u.s. federal, state and local laws and regulations. as a result, we have a corporate compliance program which includes the creation of appropriate policies defining employee behavior that mandate adherence to laws, employee training, annual affirmations, monitoring and enforcement. however, if any employee fails to comply with, or intentionally disregards, any of these laws, regulations or our policies, a range of liabilities could result for the employee and for 12 the company, including, but not limited to, significant penalties and fines, sanctions and/or litigation, and the expenses associated with defending and resolving any of the foregoing, any of which could have a negative impact on our reputation and business. risks related to our common stock our operating results may fluctuate from period to period and/or the financial guidance we have given may not meet the expectations of investors, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate in the future as a result of many factors, including the timing of the execution of research contracts, the extent of completion of consulting engagements, the timing of symposia and other events, the amount of new business generated, the mix of domestic and international business, currency fluctuations, changes in market demand for our products and services, the timing of the development, introduction and marketing of new products and services, competition in our industry, the impact of our acquisitions, and general economic conditions. an inability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flow, and achieve our forecasts, may impact our operating and other activities. the potential fluctuations in our operating results could cause period-to-period comparisons of operating results not to be meaningful and may provide an unreliable indication of future operating results. furthermore, our operating results may not meet the expectations of investors or the financial guidance we have previously provided. if this occurs, the price of our common stock could decline. our stock price may be impacted by factors outside of our control and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid. the price of our common stock is subject to significant fluctuations in response to, among other factors, developments in the industries in which we do business, general economic conditions, general market conditions, geo-political events, changes in the nature and composition of our stockholder base, changes in securities analysts' recommendations regarding our securities and our performance relative to securities analysts' expectations for any quarterly period, as well as other factors outside of our control including any and all factors that move the securities markets generally. these factors may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. future sales or issuances of our common stock in the public market could lower our stock price. sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock in the public market by our current stockholders, or the threat that substantial sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease significantly or make it difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling stock. the issuance of additional shares of our common stock could also lower the market price of our common stock. furthermore, we have various equity incentive plans that provide for awards in the form of stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other stock-based awards which have the effect of adding shares of common stock into the public market. we have a board-approved share repurchase program and at december 31, 2017, approximately $1.1 billion remained available for share purchases under this program. no assurance can be given that we will continue these share repurchase activities in the future when the program is completed, or in the event that the price of our common stock reaches levels at which repurchases are not accretive. future sales of our common stock from grants and awards could lower our stock price. as of december 31, 2017, the aggregate number of shares of our common stock issuable pursuant to outstanding grants and awards under our equity incentive plans was approximately 2.8 million shares (approximately 1.3 million of which have vested). in addition, at the present time, approximately 5.6 million shares may be issued in connection with future awards under our equity incentive plans. shares of common stock issued under these plans are freely transferable and have been registered under the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act ), except for any shares held by affiliates (as that term is defined in rule 144 under the securities act) which are subject to certain limitations. we cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. interests of certain of our significant stockholders may conflict with yours . to our knowledge, as of the date hereof, and based upon publicly-available sec filings, five institutional investors each presently hold over 5% of our common stock. while no stockholder or institutional investor individually holds a majority of our outstanding shares, these significant stockholders may be able, either individually or acting together, to exercise significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation, adoption or amendment of equity plans and approval of significant transactions such as mergers, acquisitions, consolidations and sales or purchases of assets. in addition, in the event of a proposed acquisition of the company by a third party, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change of control in us. accordingly, the interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, or otherwise be in the best interests of us or all stockholders. our anti-takeover protections may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and delaware law may make it difficult for any party to acquire control of us in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. these provisions include: (i) the ability of our board of directors to issue and determine the terms of preferred stock; (ii) advance notice requirements for inclusion of stockholder proposals at stockholder meetings; and (iii) the anti-takeover provisions of delaware law. these provisions could 13 discourage or prevent a change of control or change in management that might provide stockholders with a premium to the market price of their common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 36 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate risk at december 31, 2017, the company had $3.3 billion in outstanding debt. approximately $2.5 billion of the company's total debt outstanding as of december 31, 2017 was based on a floating base rate of interest, which potentially exposes the company to increases in interest rates. however, we partially reduce our overall exposure to changes in interest rates through our interest rate swap contracts, which effectively converts the floating base interest rate on a portion of these variable rate borrowings to fixed rates. thus we are exposed to base interest rate risk on floating rate borrowings only in excess of any amounts that are not hedged. at december 31, 2017, we had unhedged interest rate risk on approximately $1.1 billion of borrowings. as an indication of our potential exposure to changes in interest rates, a hypothetical 25 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates could change our annual pre-tax interest expense by approximately $2.8 million. foreign currency risk for both years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, 42% of our revenues were derived from sales outside of the united states. among the major foreign currencies in which we conduct business are the euro, the british pound, the japanese yen, the australian dollar, and the canadian dollar. the reporting currency of our consolidated financial statements is the u.s. dollar. as the values 36 of the foreign currencies in which we operate fluctuate over time relative to the u.s dollar, the company is exposed to both foreign currency translation and transaction risk. translation risk arises as our foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated into u.s. dollars since the functional currencies of our foreign operations are generally denominated in the local currency. adjustments resulting from the translation of these assets and liabilities are deferred and recorded as a component of stockholders' equity (deficit). a measure of the potential impact of foreign currency translation can be determined through a sensitivity analysis of our cash and cash equivalents. at december 31, 2017, we had $538.9 million of cash and cash equivalents (excluding cash held-for-sale), with a substantial portion denominated in foreign currencies. if the exchange rates of the foreign currencies we hold all changed in comparison to the u.s. dollar by 10%, the amount of cash and cash equivalents we would have reported on december 31, 2017 would have increased or decreased by approximately $28.0 million. the translation of our foreign currency revenues and expenses historically has not had a material impact on our consolidated earnings since movements in and among the major currencies in which we operate tend to impact our revenues and expenses fairly equally. however, our earnings could be impacted during periods of significant exchange rate volatility, or when some or all of the major currencies in which we operate move in the same direction against the u.s dollar. transaction risk arises when our foreign subsidiaries enter into transactions that are denominated in a currency that may differ from the local functional currency. as these transactions are translated into the local functional currency, a gain or loss may result, which is recorded in current period earnings. we typically enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to mitigate the effects of some of this foreign currency transaction risk. our outstanding currency contracts as of december 31, 2017 had an immaterial net unrealized loss. credit risk financial instruments that potentially subject the company to concentration of credit risk consist primarily of short-term, highly liquid investments classified as cash equivalents, accounts receivable, interest rate swap contracts and foreign exchange contracts. the majority of the company's cash and cash equivalents, interest rate swap contracts, and its foreign exchange contracts are with large investment grade commercial banks. accounts receivable balances deemed to be collectible from customers have limited concentration of credit risk due to our diverse customer base and geographic dispersion.risk factors 6 risk factors we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. in addition, we and our clients are affected by global economic conditions and trends. the following sections discuss many, but not all, of the various risks and uncertainties that may affect our future performance, but is not intended to be all-inclusive. any of the risks described below could have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows, and could therefore have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. additional risks not currently known to us or that we now deem immaterial may also harm us and negatively affect your investment. risks related to our business our operating results could be negatively impacted by global economic conditions. our business is impacted by general economic conditions and trends, in the united states and abroad. in its recent report, global economics prospects , january 2019: darkening skies , the world bank reported that global trade and investment have weakened and it reduced its growth outlook for both 2018 and 2019. among the concerns cited were trade disputes, higher interest rates and lower liquidity as advanced-economy central banks continue to withdraw accommodative monetary policies, high corporate debt loads, and volatile financial markets. in the u.s., where growth has remained solid, the world bank also cited concerns regarding the diminishing impact of the 2017 tax cuts and a volatile political environment. a downturn in growth could negatively and materially affect future demand for our products 6 and services in general, in certain geographic regions, in particular countries, or industry sectors. such difficulties could negatively impact our ability to maintain or improve the various business measurements we utilize (which are defined in this annual report), such as contract value and consulting backlog growth, client retention, wallet retention and consulting utilization rates, and the number of attendees and exhibitors to our conferences and other meetings. failure to achieve acceptable levels of these measurements or improve them could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we face significant competition and our failure to compete successfully could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. we face direct competition from a significant number of independent providers of information products and services, including information available on the internet free of charge. we also compete indirectly against consulting firms and other information providers, including electronic and print media companies, some of which may have greater financial, information gathering and marketing resources than we do. these indirect competitors could also choose to compete directly with us in the future. in addition, low barriers to entry exist in the markets in which we do business. as a result, new competitors may emerge and existing competitors may start to provide additional or complementary services. additionally, technological advances may provide increased competition from a variety of sources. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete against current and future competitors and our failure to do so could result in loss of market share, diminished value in our products and services, reduced pricing and increased marketing expenditures. furthermore, we may not be successful if we cannot compete effectively on quality of research and analysis, timely delivery of information, customer service, the ability to offer products to meet changing market needs for information and analysis, or price. we may not be able to maintain the quality of our existing products and services. we operate in a rapidly evolving market, and our success depends upon our ability to deliver high quality and timely research and analysis to our clients. any failure to continue to provide credible and reliable information and advice that is useful to our clients could have a material adverse effect on future business and operating results. further, if our published data, opinions or viewpoints prove to be wrong, lack independence, or are not substantiated by appropriate research, our reputation may suffer and demand for our products and services may decline. in addition, we must continue to improve our methods for delivering our products and services in a cost-effective manner via the internet and mobile applications. failure to maintain state of the art electronic delivery capabilities could materially adversely affect our future business and operating results. we may not be able to enhance and develop our existing products and services, or introduce the new products and services that are needed to remain competitive. the market for our products and services is characterized by rapidly changing needs for information and analysis. the development of new products is a complex and time-consuming process. nonetheless, to maintain our competitive position, we must continue to anticipate the needs of our client organizations, develop, enhance and improve our existing as well as new products and services to address those needs, deliver all products and services in a timely, user-friendly and state of the art manner, and appropriately position and price new products and services relative to the marketplace and our costs of developing them. any failure to achieve successful client acceptance of new products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. additionally, significant delays in new product or service releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. technology is rapidly evolving, and if we do not continue to develop new product and service offerings in response to these changes, our business could suffer. disruptive technologies are rapidly changing the environment in which we, our clients, and our competitors operate. we will need to continue to respond to these changes by enhancing our product and service offerings in order to maintain our competitive position. however, we may not be successful in responding to these forces and enhance our products on a timely basis, and any enhancements we develop may not adequately address the changing needs of our clients. our future success will depend upon our ability to develop and introduce in a timely manner new or enhanced existing offerings that address the changing needs of this constantly evolving marketplace. failure to develop products that meet the needs of our clients in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position. our research business depends on renewals of subscription-based services and sales of new subscription-based services for a significant portion of our revenue, and our failure to renew at historical rates or generate new sales of such services could lead to a decrease in our revenues. a large portion of our success depends on our ability to generate renewals of our subscription-based research products and services and new sales of such products and services, both to new clients and existing clients. these products and services constituted approximately 80% and 79% of total revenues from our on-going operations for 2018 and 2017, respectively. generating new sales of our subscription-based products and services, both to new and existing clients, is a challenging, costly, and often time consuming process. if we are unable to generate new sales, due to competition or other factors, our revenues will be adversely affected. 7 our research subscription contracts are typically for 12-months or longer. our ability to maintain contract renewals is subject to numerous factors, including the following: delivering high-quality and timely analysis and advice to our clients; understanding and anticipating market trends and the changing needs of our clients; and providing products and services of the quality and timeliness necessary to withstand competition. additionally, as we continue to adjust our products and service offerings to meet our clients' continuing needs, we may shift the type and pricing of our products which may impact client renewal rates. while our research client retention rate was 83% at both december 31, 2018 and 2017, there can be no guarantee that we will continue to maintain this rate of client renewals. the profitability and success of our conferences and other meetings could be adversely affected by external factors beyond our control. our conferences business constituted approximately 11% of total revenues from our on-going operations in both 2018 and 2017. the market for desirable dates and locations for our activities is highly competitive. if we cannot secure desirable dates and suitable venues for our conferences their profitability could suffer, and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. in addition, because our conferences are scheduled in advance and held at specific locations, the success of these activities can be affected by circumstances outside of our control, such as labor strikes, transportation shutdowns and travel restrictions, economic slowdowns, reductions in government spending, geopolitical crises, terrorist attacks, war, weather, natural disasters, communicable diseases, and other occurrences impacting the global, regional, or national economies, the occurrence of any of which could negatively impact the success of the activity. we also face the challenge of procuring venues that are sizeable enough at a reasonable cost to accommodate some of our major activities. our consulting business depends on non-recurring engagements and our failure to secure new engagements could lead to a decrease in our revenues. consulting segment revenues constituted approximately 9% and 10% of total revenues from our on-going operations in 2018 and 2017, respectively. consulting engagements typically are project-based and non-recurring. our ability to replace consulting engagements is subject to numerous factors, including the following: delivering consistent, high-quality consulting services to our clients; tailoring our consulting services to the changing needs of our clients; and our ability to match the skills and competencies of our consulting staff to the skills required for the fulfillment of existing or potential consulting engagements. any material decline in our ability to replace consulting engagements could have an adverse impact on our revenues and our financial condition. in addition, revenue from our contract optimization business can fluctuate significantly from period to period and is not predictable. our sales to governments are subject to appropriations and may be terminated. we derive significant revenues from research and consulting contracts with the united states government and its respective agencies, numerous state and local governments and their respective agencies, and foreign governments and their agencies. at december 31, 2018 and 2017, approximately $555.0 million and $435.0 million, respectively, of our revenue contracts were attributable to government entities. our u.s. government contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations by the u.s. congress to fund the agencies contracting for our services. additionally, our contracts at the state and local levels, as well as foreign government contracts, are subject to various governmental authorizations and funding approvals and mechanisms. in general, most if not all of these contracts may be terminated at any time by the government entity without cause or penalty ( termination for convenience ). in addition, contracts with u.s. federal, state and local, and foreign governments and their respective agencies are subject to increasingly complex bidding procedures and compliance requirements, as well as intense competition. while terminations by governments have not been significant historically, should appropriations for the various governments and agencies that contract with us be curtailed, or should our government contracts be terminated for convenience, we may experience a significant loss of revenues. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel which could jeopardize the quality of our products and services and our future growth plans. our success is based on attracting and retaining talented employees and we depend heavily upon the quality of our senior management, research analysts, consultants, sales and other key personnel. the market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive. maintaining our brand and reputation are important to our ability to recruit and retain employees. we face competition for qualified professionals from, among others, technology companies, market research firms, consulting firms, financial services companies and electronic and print media companies, some of which have a 8 greater ability to attract and compensate these professionals. additionally, some of the personnel that we attempt to hire are subject to non-compete agreements that could impede our short-term recruitment efforts. we may also be limited in our ability to recruit internationally by restrictive domestic immigration laws, and changes to policies that restrain the flow of technical and professional talent could inhibit our ability to adequately staff our research and development and other efforts. an inability to retain key personnel or to hire and train additional qualified personnel could materially adversely affect the quality of our products and services, as well as our future business and operating results. in addition, effective succession planning is important to our long-term success, and failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. we may not be able to maintain the equity in our brand name. we believe that our gartner brand, in particular our independence, is critical to our efforts to attract and retain clients and top talent, and that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition increases. we may also discover that our brand, though recognized, is not perceived to be relevant by new market segments we have targeted. we may expand our marketing activities to promote and strengthen the gartner brand and may need to increase our marketing budget, hire additional marketing and public relations personnel, and expend additional sums to protect our brand and otherwise increase expenditures to create and maintain client brand loyalty. if we fail to effectively promote, maintain, and protect the gartner brand, or incur excessive expenses in doing so, our future business and operating results could be materially adversely impacted. our international operations expose us to a variety of operational and other risks which could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we have clients in more than 100 countries and a substantial amount of our revenue is earned outside of the united states. our operating results are subject to all of the risks typically inherent in international business activities, including general political and economic conditions in each country, challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations, changes in regulatory requirements, compliance with numerous and complex foreign laws and regulations, currency restrictions and fluctuations, the difficulty of enforcing client agreements, collecting accounts receivable and protecting intellectual property rights or against economic espionage in international jurisdictions. our business could also be negatively impacted by tariffs, trade barriers and restrictions, and other acts by governments to protect domestic markets or to retaliate against the trade tariffs and restrictions of other nations. in addition, the withdrawal of nations from existing common markets or trading blocs, such as the possible exit of the united kingdom from the european union (eu), commonly referred to as brexit, could be potentially disruptive and could negatively impact our business and our clients. brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations in the united kingdom and eu. we, as well as our clients who have significant operations in the united kingdom, may incur additional costs and expenses as we adapt to potentially divergent regulatory frameworks from the rest of the eu and as a result, our contractual commitments in the united kingdom and the rest of the eu may be impacted, which could negatively affect our operations in europe. this and other brexit-related issues may require changes to our legal entity structure in the united kingdom and the eu. any of these effects of brexit, among others, could harm our business and financial results. we rely on local distributors or sales agents in some international locations. if any of these arrangements are terminated by our agent or us, we may not be able to replace the arrangement on beneficial terms or on a timely basis, or clients of the local distributor or sales agent may not want to continue to do business with us or our new agent. our business and operations may be conducted in countries where corruption has historically penetrated the economy. it is our policy to comply, and to require our local partners, distributors, agents, and those with whom we do business to comply, with all applicable anti-corruption laws, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and u.k. bribery act, and with applicable local laws of the foreign countries in which we operate. there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents will comply with the company's policies that mandate compliance with these laws. any failure to comply with these laws, even if inadvertent could be costly and disrupt our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows, as well as on our reputation. for example, during the second half of 2018 we cooperated fully with a south african government commission established to review a wide range of issues related to the country's revenue service, including the procurement and fulfillment of consulting agreements we entered into with the revenue service through a sales agent from late 2014 through early 2017. with respect to gartner, the commission recommended that the revenue service explore lawful options to invalidate the agreements, in whole or in part, and attempt to recover certain payments it made to us. in parallel with our cooperation in south africa, we commenced an internal investigation regarding this matter and voluntarily disclosed to the sec and department of justice ( doj ) in november 2018 that the commission was reviewing our procurement of these agreements. we intend to fully cooperate with any sec or doj inquiries into this matter. at this time, we do not believe the ultimate outcome of these matters will have a material effect on our financial results, however, an unexpected adverse resolution of these matters could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. 9 we are exposed to volatility in foreign currency exchange rates from our international operations. a significant portion of our revenues are typically derived from sales outside of the united states. revenues earned outside the u.s. are typically transacted in local currencies, which may fluctuate significantly against the u.s. dollar. while we may use forward exchange contracts to a limited extent to seek to mitigate foreign currency risk, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. additionally, our effective tax rate is increased as the u.s. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, which could impact our operating results. natural disasters, terrorist acts, war, actions by governments, and other geopolitical activities could disrupt our operations. we operate in numerous u.s. and international locations, and we have offices in a number of major cities across the globe. a major weather event, earthquake, flood, drought, volcanic activity, disease, or other natural disaster could significantly disrupt our operations. in addition, acts of civil unrest, failure of critical infrastructure, terrorism, armed conflict, war, and abrupt political change, as well as responses by various governments and the international community to such acts, can have a negative effect on our business. such events could cause delays in initiating or completing sales, impede delivery of our products and services to our clients, disrupt or shut down the internet or other critical client-facing and business processes, impede the travel of our personnel and clients, dislocate our critical internal functions and personnel, and in general harm our ability to conduct normal business operations, any of which can negatively impact our financial condition and operating results. such events could also impact the timing and budget decisions of our clients, which could materially adversely affect our business. privacy concerns could damage our reputation and deter current and potential clients from using our products and services or attending our conferences. concerns relating to global data privacy have the potential to damage our reputation and deter current and prospective clients from using our products and services or attending our conferences. in the ordinary course of our business and in accordance with applicable laws, we collect personal information (i) from our employees (ii) from the users of our products and services, including conference attendees; and (iii) from prospective clients. we collect only basic personal information from our clients and prospects. while we believe our overall data privacy procedures are adequate, the theft or loss of such data, or concerns about our practices, even if unfounded, with regard to the collection, use, disclosure, or security of this personal information or other data protection related matters could damage our reputation and materially adversely affect our operating results. any systems failure or compromise of our security that results in the disclosure of our users' personal data could seriously limit the consumption of our products and services and the attendance at our conferences, as well as harm our reputation and brand and, therefore, our business. in addition, continuously evolving data protection laws and regulations, such as the european union general data protection regulation ( gdpr ) (effective in may 2018), and the new california consumer privacy act ( ccpa ), which takes effect in january 2020, pose increasingly complex compliance challenges. we have implemented a gdpr compliance program and are working towards ccpa compliance. in the meantime, gartner will continue to maintain and rely upon our comprehensive global data protection compliance program, which includes administrative, technical, and physical controls to safeguard our associates' and clients' personal data. the interpretation and application of these laws in the united states, the european union and elsewhere are often uncertain, inconsistent and ever changing. complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. internet and critical internal computer system failures, cyber-attacks, or compromises of our systems or security could damage our reputation and harm our business. a significant portion of our business is conducted over the internet and we rely heavily on computer systems to conduct our operations. individuals, groups, and state-sponsored organizations may take steps that pose threats to our operations, our computer systems, our employees, and our customers. they may develop and deploy malicious software to gain access to our networks and attempt to steal confidential information, launch distributed denial of service attacks, or attempt other coordinated disruptions. these threats are constantly evolving and becoming more sophisticated, thereby increasing the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. a cyber-attack, widespread internet failure or internet access limitations, or disruption of our critical information technology systems through denial of service, viruses, or other events could cause delays in initiating or completing sales, impede delivery of our products and services to our clients, disrupt other critical client-facing or business processes, or dislocate our critical internal functions. such events could significantly harm our ability to conduct normal business operations and negatively impact our financial results. we take steps to secure our management information systems, including our computer systems, intranet, proprietary websites, email and other telecommunications and data networks, and we carefully scrutinize the security of outsourced website and service providers prior to retaining their services. however, the security measures implemented by us or by our outside service providers may not be effective and our systems (and those of our outside service providers) may be vulnerable to theft, loss, damage and interruption from a number of potential sources and events, including unauthorized access or security breaches, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, power loss, or other disruptive events. our reputation, brand, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected if, as a result of a significant cyber event or other technology-related catastrophe, our operations are disrupted or shutdown; our confidential, proprietary information is stolen or disclosed; we incur costs or are required to pay fines 10 in connection with stolen customer, employee, or other confidential information; we are required to dedicate significant resources to system repairs or increase cyber security protection; or we otherwise incur significant litigation, regulatory action and scrutiny or other costs as a result of these occurrences. we may experience outages and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure. our increasing user traffic and complexity of our products and services demand more computing power. we have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to maintain data centers and equipment and to move more of our workload into cloud services, to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle increased traffic on our websites, and to deliver our products and services through emerging channels, such as mobile applications. however, any inefficiencies or operational failures could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience, resulting in damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, potentially harming our financial condition and operating results. our outstanding debt obligations could negatively impact our financial condition and future operating results. as of december 31, 2018, the company had outstanding debt of $1.5 billion under its 2016 term loan and revolving credit facility, as amended (the "2016 credit agreement") and $800.0 million of senior notes due 2025 ("senior notes"). additional information regarding the 2016 credit agreement and the senior notes is included in note 5 debt in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. the debt service requirements of these borrowings could impair our future financial condition and operating results. in addition, the affirmative, negative and financial covenants of the 2016 credit agreement, as amended, as well as the covenants related to the senior notes, could limit our future financial flexibility. a failure to comply with these covenants could result in acceleration of all amounts outstanding, which could materially impact our financial condition unless accommodations could be negotiated with our lenders and noteholders. no assurance can be given that we would be successful in doing so, or that any accommodations that we were able to negotiate would be on terms as favorable as those currently. the outstanding debt may limit the amount of cash or additional credit available to us, which could restrain our ability to expand or enhance products and services, respond to competitive pressures or pursue future business opportunities requiring substantial investments of additional capital. in addition, variable rate borrowings under our 2016 credit agreement typically use libor as a benchmark for establishing the rate of interest. libor is the subject of recent national and international regulatory scrutiny which may result in changes that cause libor to disappear entirely after 2021 or to cause it to perform differently than in the past. the consequences of these libor developments on our variable rate borrowings, including the possible transition to other rates such as the secured overnight financing rate (sofr), cannot be predicted at this time, but could include an increase in the cost of our variable rate indebtedness and volatility in our earnings. we may require additional cash resources which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. we may require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions, implementation of our strategy and stock repurchase program, to repay indebtedness or to pursue future business opportunities requiring substantial investments of additional capital, including acquisitions. if our existing financial resources are insufficient to satisfy our requirements, we may seek additional borrowings or issue debt. prevailing credit and debt market conditions may negatively affect debt availability and cost, and, as a result, financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. in addition, the incurrence of additional indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could require us to agree to operating and financial covenants that would further restrict our operations. if we are unable to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights our competitive position may be harmed. we rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, patent, confidentiality, non-compete and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property rights. despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized third parties may obtain and use technology or other information that we regard as proprietary. our intellectual property rights may not survive a legal challenge to their validity or provide significant protection for us. the laws of certain countries, particularly in emerging markets, do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. accordingly, we may not be able to protect our intellectual property against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. additionally, there can be no assurance that another party will not assert that we have infringed its intellectual property rights. our employees are subject to restrictive covenant agreements (which include restrictions on employees' ability to compete and solicit customers and employees) and assignment of invention agreements, to the extent permitted under applicable law. when the period expires relating to the particular restriction, former employees may compete against us. if a former employee violates the provisions of his/her restrictive covenant agreement, we seek to enforce the restrictions but there is no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts. 11 we have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions and strategic investments, which could involve substantial risks. we have made and may continue to make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses that offer complementary products and services or otherwise support our growth objectives. the risks involved in each acquisition or investment include the possibility of paying more than the value we derive from the acquisition, dilution of the interests of our current stockholders should we issue stock in the acquisition, decreased working capital, increased indebtedness, the assumption of undisclosed liabilities and unknown and unforeseen risks, the ability to retain key personnel of the acquired company, the inability to integrate the business of the acquired company and increase sales, the time to train the sales force to market and sell the products of the acquired business, the potential disruption of our ongoing business and the distraction of management from our day to day business. the realization of any of these risks could adversely affect our business. additionally, we face competition in identifying acquisition targets and consummating acquisitions. we face risks related to leased office space. with the 2017 ceb acquisition we assumed a significant amount of additional leased office space, in particular in arlington, virginia, which formerly served as ceb's headquarters location. we have largely completed all the office space consolidations necessitated by the ceb acquisition as well as the divestiture of certain former ceb businesses that we completed during 2018. in arlington we have consolidated all our businesses into a single new building and have substantially sublet the excess space in all of our other properties. similarly, in chicago we have also consolidated into a single new office space consolidating four different legacy spaces. through all the consolidations we have tried to secure quality sub-tenants with appropriate sub-lease terms. however, if subtenants default on their sublease obligation with us or otherwise terminate the subleases with us, we may experience a loss of planned sublease rental income, which could result in a material charge against our operating results. we are also in the process of adding new leased spaces to support our continued growth. if the new spaces are not completed on schedule, or if the landlord defaults on its commitments and obligations pursuant to the new leases, we may incur additional expenses. in addition, unanticipated difficulties in initiating operations in a new space, including construction delays, it system interruptions, or other infrastructure support problems, could result in a delay in moving into the new space, resulting in a loss of employee and operational productivity and a loss of revenue and/or additional expenses, which could also have an adverse, material impact on our operating results. we face risks related to litigation. we are, and in the future may be, subject to a variety of legal actions, such as employment, breach of contract, intellectual property-related, and business torts, including claims of unfair trade practices and misappropriation of trade secrets. given the nature of our business, we are also subject to defamation (including libel and slander), negligence, or other claims relating to the information we publish. regardless of the merits and despite vigorous efforts to defend any such claim can affect our reputation, and responding to any such claim could be time consuming, result in costly litigation and require us to enter into settlements, royalty and licensing agreements which may not be offered or available on reasonable terms. if a claim is made against us which we cannot defend or resolve on reasonable terms, our business, brand, and financial results could be materially adversely affected. we face risks related to taxation . we are a global company and a substantial amount of our earnings is generated outside of the united states and taxed at rates less than the u.s. statutory federal income tax rate. our effective tax rate, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected by earnings being higher than anticipated in jurisdictions with higher statutory tax rates and, conversely, lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and/or by changes in tax laws or accounting principles and their interpretation by relevant authorities. at the present time, the united states and other countries where we do business have either changed or are actively considering changes in their tax, accounting and other related laws. in the united states, tax reform has introduced numerous new complicated tax laws which could unfavorably impact our future effective tax rate. various provisions of the u.s. tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 ("the act") are highly complex and remain unclear in certain respects. additional guidance in the form of notices and proposed regulations have been issued, and further guidance is expected to be issued. changes could be made to the proposed regulations, future legislation could be enacted, and more regulations and notices could be issued. we will continue to monitor and will reflect impacts in future financial statements as appropriate. in addition, many state and local tax jurisdictions are still determining how they will interpret the act. final state and local governments' legislation or guidance relating to the act may impact our financial results. during 2015, the organization for economic cooperation and development ( oecd ) released final reports on various action items associated with its initiative to prevent base erosion and profit shifting ( beps ). numerous countries have and continue to propose tax law changes intended to address beps. the future enactment by various governments of these and other proposals could significantly increase our tax obligations in many countries where we do business. these actual, potential, and other changes, both individually and collectively, could materially increase our effective tax rate and negatively impact our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. 12 in addition, our tax filings for various years are subject to examination by domestic and international taxing authorities and, during the ordinary course of business, we are under audit by various tax authorities. recent and future actions on the part of the oecd and various governments have increased scrutiny of our tax filings. although we believe that our tax filings and related accruals are reasonable, the final resolution of tax audits may be materially different from what is reflected in our historical tax provisions and accruals and could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows, particularly in major taxing jurisdictions including, but not limited to: the united states, ireland, india, canada, united kingdom, japan, and france. as of december 31, 2018, we had approximately $171.0 million of accumulated undistributed earnings in our non-u.s. subsidiaries. our cash and cash equivalents are held in numerous locations throughout the world. at december 31, 2018, 79% of our cash and cash equivalents was held overseas, with a substantial portion representing accumulated undistributed earnings of our non-u.s. subsidiaries. under u.s. gaap, no provision for income taxes that may result from the remittance of accumulated undistributed foreign earnings is required if the company intends to reinvest such earnings overseas indefinitely. our current liquidity requirements do not demonstrate a need to repatriate accumulated undistributed foreign earnings to fund our u.s. operations or otherwise satisfy the liquidity needs of our u.s. operations. accordingly, the company intends to continue to reinvest substantially all of its accumulated undistributed foreign earnings, except in instances in which the repatriation of those earnings would result in minimal additional tax. as a result, we have not recognized income tax expense on the amounts deemed permanently reinvested. however, under the provisions of the u.s tax cuts and jobs act of 2017, we envision that the income tax that would be payable if such earnings were repatriated would be minimal. our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. we operate in a number of countries, including emerging markets, and as a result we are required to comply with numerous, and in many cases, changing international and u.s. federal, state and local laws and regulations. as a result, we have a corporate compliance program which includes the creation of appropriate policies defining employee behavior that mandate adherence to laws, employee training, annual affirmations, monitoring and enforcement. however, if any employee fails to comply with, or intentionally disregards, any of these laws, regulations or our policies, a range of liabilities could result for the employee and for the company, including, but not limited to, significant penalties and fines, sanctions and/or litigation, and the expenses associated with defending and resolving any of the foregoing, any of which could have a negative impact on our reputation and business. risks related to our common stock our operating results may fluctuate from period to period and/or the financial guidance we have given may not meet the expectations of investors, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate in the future as a result of many factors, including the timing of the execution of research contracts, the extent of completion of consulting engagements, the timing of our conferences, the amount of new business generated, the mix of domestic and international business, currency fluctuations, changes in market demand for our products and services, the timing of the development, introduction and marketing of new products and services, competition in our industry, the impact of our acquisitions, and general economic conditions. an inability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flow, and achieve our forecasts, may impact our operating and other activities. the potential fluctuations in our operating results could cause period-to-period comparisons of operating results not to be meaningful and may provide an unreliable indication of future operating results. furthermore, our operating results may not meet the expectations of investors or the financial guidance we have previously provided. if this occurs, the price of our common stock could decline. our stock price may be impacted by factors outside of our control and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid. the price of our common stock is subject to significant fluctuations in response to, among other factors, developments in the industries in which we do business, general economic conditions, general market conditions, geo-political events, changes in the nature and composition of our stockholder base, changes in securities analysts' recommendations regarding our securities and our performance relative to securities analysts' expectations for any quarterly period, as well as other factors outside of our control including any and all factors that move the securities markets generally. these factors may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. future sales or issuances of our common stock in the public market could lower our stock price. sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock in the public market by our current stockholders, or the threat that substantial sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease significantly or make it difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling stock. the issuance of additional shares of our common stock could also lower the market price of our common stock. furthermore, we have various equity incentive plans that provide for awards in the form of stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other stock-based awards which have the effect of adding shares of common stock into the public market. we have a board-approved share repurchase program and at december 31, 2018, approximately $871.0 million remained available for share 13 purchases under this program. no assurance can be given that we will continue these share repurchase activities in the future when the program is completed, or in the event that the price of our common stock reaches levels at which repurchases are not accretive. future sales of our common stock from grants and awards could lower our stock price. as of december 31, 2018, the aggregate number of shares of our common stock issuable pursuant to outstanding grants and awards under our equity incentive plans was approximately 2.6 million shares (approximately 0.5 million of which have vested). in addition, at the present time, approximately 4.9 million shares may be issued in connection with future awards under our equity incentive plans. shares of common stock issued under these plans are freely transferable and have been registered under the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act ), except for any shares held by affiliates (as that term is defined in rule 144 under the securities act) which are subject to certain limitations. we cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. interests of certain of our significant stockholders may conflict with yours . to our knowledge, as of the date hereof, and based upon publicly-available sec filings, five institutional investors each presently hold over 5% of our common stock. while no stockholder or institutional investor individually holds a majority of our outstanding shares, these significant stockholders may be able, either individually or acting together, to exercise significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation, adoption or amendment of equity plans and approval of significant transactions such as mergers, acquisitions, consolidations and sales or purchases of assets. in addition, in the event of a proposed acquisition of the company by a third party, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change of control in us. accordingly, the interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, or otherwise be in the best interests of us or all stockholders. our anti-takeover protections may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and delaware law may make it difficult for any party to acquire control of us in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. these provisions include: (i) the ability of our board of directors to issue and determine the terms of preferred stock; (ii) advance notice requirements for inclusion of stockholder proposals at stockholder meetings; and (iii) the anti-takeover provisions of delaware law. these provisions could discourage or prevent a change of control or change in management that might provide stockholders with a premium to the market price of their common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate risk at december 31, 2018, the company had $2.3 billion in outstanding debt. approximately $1.5 billion of the company's total debt outstanding as of december 31, 2018 was based on a floating base rate of interest, which potentially exposes the company to increases in interest rates. however, we partially reduce our overall exposure to changes in interest rates through our interest rate swap contracts, which effectively converts the floating base interest rate on a portion of these variable rate borrowings to fixed rates. thus we are exposed to base interest rate risk on floating rate borrowings only in excess of any amounts that are not hedged. at december 31, 2018, we had unhedged interest rate risk on approximately $110.0 million of borrowings. as an indication of our potential exposure to changes in interest rates, a hypothetical 25 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates could change our annual pre-tax interest expense by approximately $0.3 million. 37 foreign currency risk for both the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017, a significant portion of our revenues were derived from sales outside of the united states. among the major foreign currencies in which we conduct business are the euro, the british pound, the japanese yen, the australian dollar, and the canadian dollar. the reporting currency of our consolidated financial statements is the u.s. dollar. as the values of the foreign currencies in which we operate fluctuate over time relative to the u.s dollar, the company is exposed to both foreign currency translation and transaction risk. translation risk arises as our foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated into u.s. dollars since the functional currencies of our foreign operations are generally denominated in the local currency. adjustments resulting from the translation of these assets and liabilities are deferred and recorded as a component of stockholders' equity (deficit). a measure of the potential impact of foreign currency translation can be determined through a sensitivity analysis of our cash and cash equivalents. at december 31, 2018, we had $156.4 million of cash and cash equivalents, with a substantial portion denominated in foreign currencies. if the exchange rates of the foreign currencies we hold all changed in comparison to the u.s. dollar by 10%, the amount of cash and cash equivalents we would have reported on december 31, 2018 would have increased or decreased by approximately $12.0 million. the translation of our foreign currency revenues and expenses historically has not had a material impact on our consolidated earnings since movements in and among the major currencies in which we operate tend to impact our revenues and expenses fairly equally. however, our earnings could be impacted during periods of significant exchange rate volatility, or when some or all of the major currencies in which we operate move in the same direction against the u.s dollar. transaction risk arises when we enter into a transaction that is denominated in a currency that may differ from the local functional currency. as these transactions are translated into the local functional currency, a gain or loss may result, which is recorded in current period earnings. we typically enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to mitigate the effects of some of this foreign currency transaction risk. our outstanding currency contracts as of december 31, 2018 had an immaterial net unrealized loss. credit risk financial instruments that potentially subject the company to concentration of credit risk consist primarily of short-term, highly liquid investments classified as cash equivalents, accounts receivable, interest rate swap contracts and foreign exchange contracts. the majority of the company's cash and cash equivalents, interest rate swap contracts, and its foreign exchange contracts are with large investment grade commercial banks. accounts receivable balances deemed to be collectible from customers have limited concentration of credit risk due to our diverse customer base and geographic dispersion.risk factors 6 risk factors. we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. in addition, we and our clients are affected by global economic conditions and trends. the following sections address significant factors, events and uncertainties that make an investment in our securities risky. we urge you to consider carefully the factors described below and the risks that they present for our operations, as well as the risks addressed in other reports and materials that we file with the sec and the other information, included or incorporated by reference in this form 10-k. when the factors, events and contingencies described below or elsewhere in this form 10-k materialize there could be a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows, and could therefore have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. additional risks not currently known to us or that we now deem immaterial may also harm us and negatively affect your investment. our operating results could be negatively impacted by global economic conditions. our business is impacted by general economic conditions and trends in the united states and abroad. in its recent report, global economics prospects, january 2020: slow growth, policy challenges , the world bank reported that global trade and investment are expected to recover modestly this year, but advanced economies are expected to slow. the report also indicated that even if growth in emerging and developing economies occurs as anticipated, the per capita growth is still expected to be less than long-term averages. among the concerns cited were increasing and accelerated global debt accumulation, slowdown in productivity, price controls in emerging markets and developing economies, risk of re-escalating trade tensions and downturns in major economies. in the united states, the world bank notes that growth has decelerated in part due to lessening investment and exports, and it is expected that general uncertainty and the diminishing impact of 2017 tax cuts will have a negative effect on growth in the near term. a downturn in growth could negatively and materially affect future demand for our products and services in general, in certain geographic regions, in particular countries, or industry sectors. such difficulties could negatively impact our ability to maintain or improve the various business measurements we utilize (which are defined in this annual report), such as contract value and consulting backlog growth, client retention, wallet retention, consulting utilization rates, and the number of attendees and exhibitors at our conferences and other meetings. failure to achieve acceptable levels of these measurements or improve them will negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we face significant competition and our failure to compete successfully could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. we face direct competition from a significant number of independent providers of information products and services, including information available on the internet free of charge. we also compete indirectly against consulting firms and other information providers, including electronic and print media companies, some of which have greater financial, information gathering and marketing resources than we do. these indirect competitors could also choose to compete directly with us in the future. in addition, low barriers to entry exist in the markets in which we do business. as a result, new competitors may emerge, and existing competitors may start to provide additional or complementary services. additionally, technological advances may provide increased competition from a variety of sources. 6 there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete against current and future competitors and our failure to do so will result in loss of market share, diminished value in our products and services, reduced pricing and increased marketing expenditures. furthermore, we will not be successful if we cannot compete effectively on quality of research and analysis, timely delivery of information, customer service, the ability to offer products to meet changing market needs for information and analysis, or price. we may not be able to maintain the quality of our existing products and services. we operate in a rapidly evolving market, and our success depends on our ability to deliver high quality and timely research and analysis to our clients. any failure to continue to provide credible and reliable information and advice that is useful to our clients could have a material adverse effect on future business and operating results. further, if our published data, opinions or viewpoints prove to be wrong, lack independence, or are not substantiated by appropriate research, our reputation will suffer and demand for our products and services may decline. in addition, we must continue to improve our methods for delivering our products and services in a cost-effective manner via the internet and mobile applications. failure to maintain state of the art electronic delivery capabilities could materially adversely affect our future business and operating results. we may not be able to enhance and develop our existing products and services or introduce the new products and services that are needed to remain competitive. the market for our products and services is characterized by rapidly changing needs for information and analysis. the development of new products is a complex and time-consuming process. nonetheless, to maintain our competitive position, we must continue to anticipate the needs of our clients, develop, enhance and improve our existing products, as well as new products and services to address those needs, deliver all products and services in a timely, user-friendly and state of the art manner, and appropriately position and price new products and services relative to the marketplace and our costs of developing them. any failure to achieve successful client acceptance of new products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. additionally, significant delays in new product or service releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. technology is rapidly evolving, and if we do not continue to develop new product and service offerings in response to these changes, our business could suffer. disruptive technologies are rapidly changing the environment in which we, our clients, and our competitors operate. we will need to continue to respond to these changes by enhancing our product and service offerings to maintain our competitive position. however, we may not be successful in responding to these forces and enhancing our products on a timely basis, and any enhancements we develop may not adequately address the changing needs of our clients. our future success will depend upon our ability to develop and introduce in a timely manner new or enhanced existing offerings that address the changing needs of this constantly evolving marketplace. failure to develop products that meet the needs of our clients in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position. our research business depends on renewals of subscription-based services and sales of new subscription-based services for a significant portion of our revenue, and our failure to renew at historical rates or generate new sales of such services will lead to a decrease in our revenues. a large portion of our success depends on our ability to generate renewals of our subscription-based research products and services and new sales of such products and services, both to new clients and existing clients. these products and services constituted approximately 73% and 72% of total revenues from our on-going operations for 2019 and 2018 , respectively. generating new sales of our subscription-based products and services, both to new and existing clients, is a challenging, costly, and often time-consuming process. if we are unable to generate new sales, due to competition or other factors, our revenues will be adversely affected. our research subscription contracts are typically for twelve months or longer. our ability to maintain contract renewals is subject to numerous factors, including the following: delivering high-quality and timely analysis and advice to our clients; understanding and anticipating market trends and the changing needs of our clients; and providing products and services of the quality and timeliness necessary to withstand competition. additionally, as we continue to adjust our products and service offerings to meet our clients' continuing needs, we may shift the type and pricing of our products which may impact client renewal rates. while our research client retention rate was 82% and 83% at december 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively, there can be no guarantee that we will continue to maintain this rate of client renewals. 7 the profitability and success of our conferences and other meetings are subject to external factors beyond our control. our conferences business constituted approximately 11% of total revenues from our on-going operations in both 2019 and 2018 . the market for desirable dates and locations for our activities is highly competitive. if we cannot secure desirable dates and suitable venues for our conferences their profitability will suffer, and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. in addition, because our conferences are scheduled in advance and held at specific locations, the success of these activities can be affected by circumstances outside of our control, such as the occurrence of or concerns related to labor strikes, transportation shutdowns and travel restrictions, economic slowdowns, reductions in government spending, geopolitical crises, terrorist attacks, war, weather, natural disasters, communicable diseases, and other occurrences impacting the global, regional, or national economies, the occurrence of any of which could negatively impact the success of the conference or meeting. we also face the challenge of procuring venues that are sizeable enough at a reasonable cost to accommodate some of our major activities. our consulting business depends on non-recurring engagements and our failure to secure new engagements could lead to a decrease in our revenues. consulting segment revenues constituted approximately 9% of total revenues from our on-going operations in both 2019 and 2018 . consulting engagements typically are project-based and non-recurring. in addition, revenue from our contract optimization business can fluctuate significantly from period to period and is not predictable. our ability to replace consulting engagements is subject to numerous factors, including the following: delivering consistent, high-quality consulting services to our clients; tailoring our consulting services to the changing needs of our clients; and our ability to match the skills and competencies of our consulting staff to the skills required for the fulfillment of existing or potential consulting engagements. a material decline in our ability to replace consulting engagements will have an adverse impact on our revenues and our financial condition. our sales to governments are subject to appropriations and some may be terminated early. we derive significant revenues from research and consulting contracts with the united states government and its respective agencies, numerous state and local governments and their respective agencies, and foreign governments and their agencies. at december 31, 2019 and 2018 , approximately $639 million and $555 million , respectively, of our outstanding revenue contracts were attributable to government entities. our u.s. government contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations by the u.s. congress to fund the agencies contracting for our services. additionally, our contracts at the state and local levels, as well as foreign government contracts, are subject to various governmental authorizations and funding approvals and mechanisms. certain of these contracts may be terminated at any time by the government entity without cause or penalty ( termination for convenience ). in addition, contracts with u.s. federal, state and local, and foreign governments and their respective agencies are subject to increasingly complex bidding procedures and compliance requirements, as well as intense competition. while terminations by governments have not been significant historically, should appropriations for the various governments and agencies that contract with us be curtailed, or should our government contracts be terminated for convenience, we may experience a significant loss of revenues. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel which could jeopardize the quality of our products and services and our future growth plans. our success is based on attracting and retaining talented employees and we depend heavily upon the quality of our senior management, research analysts, consultants, sales and other key personnel. the market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive. maintaining our brand and reputation is important to our ability to recruit and retain employees. we face competition for qualified professionals from, among others, technology companies, market research firms, consulting firms, financial services companies and electronic and print media companies, some of which have a greater ability to attract and compensate these professionals. additionally, some of the personnel that we attempt to hire are subject to non-compete agreements that could impede our short-term recruitment efforts. we may also be limited in our ability to recruit internationally by restrictive domestic immigration laws, and changes to policies that restrain the flow of technical and professional talent could inhibit our ability to adequately staff our research and development and other efforts. an inability to retain key personnel or to hire and train additional qualified personnel could materially adversely affect the quality of our products and services, as well as our future business and operating results. in addition, effective succession planning is important to our long-term success, and failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. we may not be able to maintain the equity in our brand name. we believe that our gartner brand, in particular our independence, is critical to our efforts to attract and retain clients and top talent, and that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition increases. we may also discover that our brand, though recognized, is not perceived to be relevant by new market segments we have targeted. we may expand our marketing activities to promote and strengthen the gartner brand and may need 8 to increase our marketing budget, hire additional marketing and public relations personnel, and expend additional sums to protect our brand and otherwise increase expenditures to create and maintain client brand loyalty. if we fail to effectively promote, maintain, and protect the gartner brand, or incur excessive expenses in doing so, our future business and operating results could be materially adversely impacted. we are subject to risks from operating globally. we have clients in more than 100 countries and a substantial amount of our revenue is earned outside of the united states. our operating results are subject to all of the risks typically inherent in international business activities, including general political and economic conditions in each country, challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations, changes in regulatory requirements, compliance with numerous and complex foreign laws and regulations, currency restrictions and fluctuations, the difficulty of enforcing client agreements, collecting accounts receivable and protecting intellectual property rights including against economic espionage in international jurisdictions. further, we rely on local distributors or sales agents in some international locations. if any of these arrangements are terminated by our agent or us, we may not be able to replace the arrangement on beneficial terms or on a timely basis, or clients of the local distributor or sales agent may not want to continue to do business with us or our new agent. tariffs, trade barriers and restrictions, and other acts by governments to protect domestic markets or to retaliate against the trade tariffs and restrictions of other nations could negatively affect our business operations. in addition, the withdrawal of nations from existing common markets or trading blocs, such as the exit of the united kingdom from the european union (the eu), commonly referred to as brexit, could be disruptive and negatively impact our business and the business of our clients. we continue to monitor brexit and its potential impacts on our results of operations and financial condition, but its specific effects on our operations depend in part on what agreements are negotiated between the united kingdom and the eu regarding post-brexit access to eu markets. if brexit leads to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations in the united kingdom and eu, then we, as well as our clients who have significant operations in the united kingdom, may incur additional costs and expenses as we adapt to the divergent regulatory frameworks. for example, if brexit requires us to change our legal entity structure in the united kingdom and the eu, our contractual commitments in the united kingdom and the rest of the eu may be impacted. additionally, separation from the eu may negatively impact the united kingdom economy, result in the imposition of tariffs on us or result in currency devaluations in the united kingdom. the impact of any of these effects of brexit, among others, could materially harm our business and financial results. our failure to comply with complex us and foreign laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. our business and operations may be conducted in countries where corruption has historically penetrated the economy. it is our policy to comply, and to require our local partners, distributors, agents, and those with whom we do business to comply, with all applicable anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and u.k. bribery act, and with applicable local laws of the foreign countries in which we operate. there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents will comply with the company's policies that mandate compliance with these laws. any determination that we have violated or are responsible for violations of these laws, even if inadvertent, could be costly and disrupt our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows, as well as on our reputation. for example, during the second half of 2018 we cooperated fully with a south african government commission established to review a wide range of issues related to the country's revenue service, including the procurement and fulfillment of consulting agreements we entered into with the revenue service through a sales agent from late 2014 through early 2017. with respect to gartner, the commission recommended that the revenue service explore lawful options to invalidate the agreements, in whole or in part, and attempt to recover certain payments it made to us. we are in ongoing discussions with the revenue service regarding the matter. in parallel with our cooperation in south africa, we commenced an internal investigation regarding this matter and voluntarily disclosed to the sec and department of justice (doj) in november 2018 that the commission was reviewing our procurement of these agreements. we are cooperating fully with the sec and doj inquiries into this matter. at this time, we do not believe the ultimate outcome of these matters will have a material effect on our financial results, however, an unexpected adverse resolution of these matters could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. we are exposed to volatility in foreign currency exchange rates from our international operations. a significant portion of our revenues are typically derived from sales outside of the united states. revenues earned outside the united states are typically transacted in local currencies, which may fluctuate significantly against the u.s. dollar. while we use forward exchange contracts to a limited extent to seek to mitigate foreign currency risk, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. natural disasters, pandemics, terrorist acts, war, actions by governments, and other geopolitical activities could disrupt our operations. we operate in numerous u.s. and international locations, and we have offices in a number of major cities across the globe. the occurrence of, or concerns related to, a major weather event, earthquake, flood, drought, volcanic activity, disease or pandemic, or other natural disaster could significantly disrupt our operations. in addition, acts of civil unrest, failure of critical 9 infrastructure, terrorism, armed conflict, war, and abrupt political change, as well as responses by various governments and the international community to such acts, can have a negative effect on our business. such events could cause delays in initiating or completing sales, impede delivery of our products and services to our clients, disrupt or shut down the internet or other critical client-facing and business processes, impede the travel of our personnel and clients, dislocate our critical internal functions and personnel, and in general harm our ability to conduct normal business operations, any of which can negatively impact our financial condition and operating results. such events could also impact the timing and budget decisions of our clients, which could materially adversely affect our business. privacy concerns could damage our reputation and deter current and potential clients from using our products and services or attending our conferences. concerns relating to global data privacy have the potential to damage our reputation and deter current and prospective clients from using our products and services or attending our conferences. in the ordinary course of our business and in accordance with applicable laws, we collect personal information (i) from our employees (ii) from the users of our products and services, including conference attendees; and (iii) from prospective clients. we collect only basic personal information from our clients and prospects. while we believe our overall data privacy procedures are adequate, the theft or loss of such data, or concerns about our practices, even if unfounded, with regard to the collection, use, disclosure, or security of this personal information or other data protection related matters could damage our reputation and materially adversely affect our operating results. any systems failure or compromise of our security that results in the disclosure of our users' personal data could seriously limit the consumption of our products and services and the attendance at our conferences, as well as harm our reputation and brand and, therefore, our business. in addition, continuously evolving data protection laws and regulations, such as the european union general data protection regulation (gdpr), and the new california consumer privacy act (ccpa) (effective january 2020), pose increasingly complex compliance challenges. we have implemented gdpr and ccpa compliance programs. in the meantime, gartner will continue to maintain and rely upon our comprehensive global data protection compliance program, which includes administrative, technical, and physical controls to safeguard our associates' and clients' personal data. the interpretation and application of these laws in the united states, the eu and elsewhere are often uncertain, inconsistent and ever changing. complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. we are exposed to risks related to cybersecurity. a significant portion of our business is conducted over the internet and we rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential, sensitive, proprietary and other types of information relating to our business operations and confidential and sensitive information about its customers and employees in our computer systems and networks, and in those of our third-party vendors. individuals, groups, and state-sponsored organizations may take steps that pose threats to our operations, our computer systems, our employees, and our customers. the cybersecurity risks we face range from cyber attacks common to most industries, such as the development and deployment of malicious software to gain access to our networks and attempt to steal confidential information, launch distributed denial of service attacks, or attempt other coordinated disruptions, to more advanced threats that target us because of our prominence in the a global research and advisory field. like many multinational corporations, we, and some third parties upon which we rely, have experienced cyber attacks on our computer systems and networks in the past and may experience them in the future, likely with more frequency and sophistication, and involving a broader range of devices and modes of attack, all of which will increase the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. to date, none have resulted in any material adverse impact to our business, operations, products, services or customers. we have implemented various security controls to both meet our security compliance obligations, while also defending against constantly evolving security threats. our security controls help to secure our information systems, including our computer systems, intranet, proprietary websites, email and other telecommunications and data networks, and we scrutinize the security of outsourced website and service providers prior to retaining their services. however, the security measures implemented by us or by our outside service providers may not be effective and our systems (and those of our outside service providers) are vulnerable to theft, loss, damage and interruption from a number of potential sources and events, including unauthorized access or security breaches, cyber attacks, computer viruses, power loss, or other disruptive events. additionally, the security compliance landscape continues to evolve, requiring us to stay apprised of changes in cybersecurity laws, regulations, and security requirements required by our clients, such as gdpr, ccpa, international organization for standardization (iso), and national institute of standards and technology (nist). recent well-publicized security breaches at other companies have led to enhanced government and regulatory scrutiny of the measures taken by companies to protect against cyber attacks, and may in the future result in heightened cybersecurity requirements, including additional regulatory expectations for oversight of vendors and service providers. a cyber attack, widespread internet failure or internet access limitations, or disruption of our critical information technology systems through denial of service, viruses, or other events could cause delays in initiating or completing sales, impede delivery of our products and services to our clients, disrupt other critical client-facing or business processes or dislocate our critical internal functions. additionally, any material breaches of cybersecurity or other technology-related catastrophe, or media reports of perceived security vulnerabilities to our systems or those of our third parties, even if no breach has been attempted or occurred, 10 could cause us to experience reputational harm, loss of customers and revenue, fines, regulatory actions and scrutiny, sanctions or other statutory penalties, litigation, liability for failure to safeguard our customers' information, or financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. we may experience outages and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure. our increasing user traffic and complexity of our products and services demand more computing power. we have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts for access to data centers and equipment and to move more of our workload into cloud services, to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle increased traffic on our websites, and to deliver our products and services through emerging channels, such as mobile applications. however, any inefficiencies or operational failures could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience, resulting in damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, potentially harming our financial condition and operating results. our outstanding debt obligations could negatively impact our financial condition and future operating results. as of december 31, 2019 , the company had outstanding debt of $1.4 billion under its 2016 term loan and revolving credit facility, as amended (the 2016 credit agreement) and $800.0 million of senior notes due 2025 (the senior notes). additional information regarding the 2016 credit agreement and the senior notes is included in note 6 - debt in the notes to consolidated financial statements. the debt service requirements of these borrowings could impair our future financial condition and operating results. in addition, the affirmative, negative and financial covenants of the 2016 credit agreement, as well as the covenants related to the senior notes, could limit our future financial flexibility. a failure to comply with these covenants could result in acceleration of all amounts outstanding, which could materially impact our financial condition unless accommodations could be negotiated with our lenders and noteholders. no assurance can be given that we would be successful in doing so, or that any accommodations that we were able to negotiate would be on terms as favorable as those currently in place. the outstanding debt may limit the amount of cash or additional credit available to us, which could restrain our ability to expand or enhance products and services, respond to competitive pressures or pursue future business opportunities requiring substantial investments of additional capital. in addition, variable-rate borrowings under our 2016 credit agreement typically use libor as a benchmark for establishing the rate of interest. libor is the subject of recent national and international regulatory scrutiny which may result in changes that cause libor to disappear entirely after 2021 or to cause it to perform differently than in the past. the consequences of these libor developments on our variable-rate borrowings, including the possible transition to other rates such as the secured overnight financing rate (sofr), cannot be predicted at this time, but could include an increase in the cost of our variable-rate indebtedness and volatility in our earnings. we may require additional cash resources which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. we may require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions, implementation of our strategy and stock repurchase program, to repay indebtedness or to pursue future business opportunities requiring substantial investments of additional capital, including acquisitions. if our existing financial resources are insufficient to satisfy our requirements, we may seek additional borrowings or issue debt. prevailing credit and debt market conditions may negatively affect debt availability and cost, and, as a result, financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. in addition, the incurrence of additional indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could require us to agree to operating and financial covenants that would further restrict our operations. if we are unable to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position may be harmed. we rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, patent, confidentiality, non-compete and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property rights. despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized third parties may obtain and use technology or other information that we regard as proprietary. our intellectual property rights may not survive a legal challenge to their validity or provide significant protection for us. the laws of certain countries, particularly in emerging markets, do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. accordingly, we may not be able to protect our intellectual property against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. additionally, there can be no assurance that another party will not assert that we have infringed its intellectual property rights. our employees are subject to restrictive covenant agreements (which include restrictions on employees' ability to compete and solicit customers and employees) and assignment of invention agreements, to the extent permitted under applicable law. when the period expires relating to their particular restrictions, former employees may compete against us. if a former employee violates the provisions of his/her restrictive covenant agreement, we seek to enforce the restrictions but there is no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts. 11 we have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions and strategic investments, which could involve substantial risks. we have made and may continue to make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses that offer complementary products and services or otherwise support our growth objectives. the risks involved in each acquisition or investment include the possibility of paying more than the value we derive from the acquisition, dilution of the interests of our current stockholders should we issue stock in the acquisition, decreased working capital, increased indebtedness, the assumption of undisclosed liabilities and unknown and unforeseen risks, the ability to retain key personnel of the acquired company, the inability to integrate the business of the acquired company, increase revenue or fully realize anticipated synergies, the time to train the sales force to market and sell the products of the acquired business, the potential disruption of our ongoing business and the distraction of management from our day to day business. the realization of any of these risks could adversely affect our business. additionally, we face competition in identifying acquisition targets and consummating acquisitions. we face risks related to leased office space. we assumed a significant amount of leased office space, in particular in arlington, virginia, in connection with the acquisition of ceb inc. in 2017. in arlington, we have consolidated all our businesses into a single building and have sublet substantially all of the excess space in our other properties. through our real estate consolidations and other related activities, we have tried to secure quality sub-tenants with appropriate sub-lease terms. however, if subtenants default on their sublease obligations with us or otherwise terminate their subleases with us, we may experience a loss of planned sublease rental income, which could result in a material charge against our operating results. we are also in the process of adding new leased spaces to support our continued growth. if the new spaces are not completed on schedule, or if the landlord defaults on its commitments and obligations pursuant to the new leases, we may incur additional expenses. in addition, unanticipated difficulties in initiating operations in a new space, including construction delays, it system interruptions, or other infrastructure support problems, could result in a delay in moving into the new space, resulting in a loss of employee and operational productivity and a loss of revenue and/or additional expenses, which could also have an adverse, material impact on our operating results. we face risks related to litigation. we are, and in the future may be, subject to a variety of legal actions, such as employment, breach of contract, intellectual property-related, and business torts, including claims of unfair trade practices and misappropriation of trade secrets. given the nature of our business, we are also subject to defamation (including libel and slander), negligence, or other claims relating to the information we publish. regardless of the merits of any claim and despite vigorous efforts to defend any such claim, claims can affect our reputation, and responding to any such claim could be time consuming, result in costly litigation and require us to enter into settlements, royalty and licensing agreements which may not be offered or available on reasonable terms. if a claim is made against us that we cannot defend or resolve on reasonable terms, our business, brand, and financial results could be materially adversely affected. we face risks related to taxation . we are a global company and a substantial amount of our earnings is generated outside of the united states and taxed at rates less than the u.s. statutory federal income tax rate. our effective tax rate, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected by earnings being higher than anticipated in jurisdictions with higher statutory tax rates and, conversely, lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and/or by changes in tax laws or accounting principles and their interpretation by relevant authorities. corporate tax reform, base-erosion efforts and tax transparency continue to be high priorities in many countries. tax reform legislation is being proposed or enacted in a number of jurisdictions where we do business. the u.s. tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the act) adopted broad u.s. corporate income tax reform and introduced several highly complex provisions. the u.s. treasury department and other standard-setting bodies will continue to interpret and issue guidance on how provisions of the act will be applied and administered. we will continue to monitor and reflect the impact of the act in future financial statements as appropriate. during 2015, the organization for economic cooperation and development (oecd) released final reports on various action items associated with its initiative to prevent base erosion and profit shifting (beps). numerous countries have and continue to propose tax law changes intended to address beps. the future enactment by various governments of these and other proposals could significantly increase our tax obligations in many countries where we do business. these actual, potential, and other changes, both individually and collectively, could materially increase our effective tax rate and negatively impact our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. in addition, our tax filings for various years are subject to examination by domestic and international taxing authorities and, during the ordinary course of business, we are under audit by various tax authorities. recent and future actions on the part of the oecd and various governments have increased scrutiny of our tax filings. although we believe that our tax filings and related accruals are reasonable, the final resolution of tax audits may be materially different from what is reflected in our historical tax provisions 12 and accruals and could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. as of december 31, 2019 , we had approximately $142.0 million of accumulated undistributed earnings in our non-u.s. subsidiaries. our cash and cash equivalents are held in numerous locations throughout the world. at december 31, 2019 , 92% of our cash and cash equivalents was held overseas, with a substantial portion representing accumulated undistributed earnings of our non-u.s. subsidiaries. under generally accepted accounting principles in the united states of america, no provision for income taxes that may result from the remittance of accumulated undistributed foreign earnings is required if the company intends to reinvest such earnings overseas indefinitely. the provisions of the act significantly changed the way earnings of non-u.s. subsidiaries are taxed in the united states. the act imposed a one-time transition tax on earnings of foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred, adopted a system of current taxation of foreign global intangible low-taxed income and provided for a deduction on repatriation of dividends from foreign subsidiaries. as a result of and subsequent to the enactment of the act, the company has remitted previously undistributed earnings with minimal additional tax cost. the company intends to continue to reinvest its accumulated undistributed foreign earnings, except in instances where the repatriation of those earnings would result in minimal additional tax. as a result, we have not recognized income tax expense on the amounts deemed permanently reinvested. our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. we operate in a number of countries, including emerging markets, and as a result we are required to comply with numerous, and in many cases, changing international and u.s. federal, state and local laws and regulations. accordingly, we have a corporate compliance program that includes the creation of appropriate policies defining employee behavior that mandate adherence to laws, employee training, annual affirmations, monitoring and enforcement. however, failure of any employee fails to comply with any of these laws, regulations or our policies, could result in a range of liabilities for the employee and for the company, including, but not limited to, significant penalties and fines, sanctions and/or litigation, and the expenses associated with defending and resolving any of the foregoing, any of which could have a negative impact on our reputation and business. risks related to our common stock our operating results may fluctuate from period to period and/or the financial guidance we have given may not meet the expectations of investors, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. our quarterly and annual operating results fluctuate as a result of many factors, including the timing of the execution of research contracts, the extent of completion of consulting engagements, the timing of our conferences, the amount of new business generated, the mix of domestic and international business, currency fluctuations, changes in market demand for our products and services, the timing of the development, introduction and marketing of new products and services, competition in our industry, the impact of our acquisitions, and general economic conditions. an inability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flow, and achieve our forecasts, may impact our operating and other activities. fluctuations in our operating results could cause period-to-period comparisons of operating results not to be meaningful and may provide an unreliable indication of future operating results. furthermore, our operating results may not meet the expectations of investors or the financial guidance we have previously provided. if this occurs, the price of our common stock could decline. our stock price may be impacted by factors outside of our control and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid. the price of our common stock is subject to significant fluctuations in response to, among other factors, developments in the industries in which we do business, general economic conditions, general market conditions, geo-political events, changes in the nature and composition of our stockholder base, changes in securities analysts' recommendations regarding our securities and our performance relative to securities analysts' expectations for any quarterly period, as well as other factors outside of our control, including any and all factors that move the securities markets generally. these factors may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. future sales or issuances of our common stock in the public market could lower our stock price. sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock in the public market by our current stockholders, or the threat that substantial sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease significantly or make it difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling stock. the issuance of additional shares of our common stock could also lower the market price of our common stock. furthermore, we have various equity incentive plans that provide for awards in the form of stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other stock-based awards, which have the effect of adding shares of common stock into the public market. we have a board-approved share repurchase program and at december 31, 2019 , approximately $715.5 million remained available for share purchases under this program. no assurance can be given that we will continue these share repurchase activities in the future after the current program is completed, or in the event that the price of our common stock reaches levels at which repurchases are not accretive. 13 future sales of our common stock from grants and awards could lower our stock price. as of december 31, 2019 , the aggregate number of shares of our common stock issuable pursuant to outstanding grants and awards under our equity incentive plans was approximately 2.6 million shares (approximately 0.6 million of which have vested). in addition, at the present time, approximately 4.5 million shares may be issued in connection with future awards under our equity incentive plans. shares of common stock issued under these plans are freely transferable and have been registered under the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act ), except for any shares held by affiliates (as that term is defined in rule 144 under the securities act) which are subject to certain limitations. we cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. interests of certain of our significant stockholders may conflict with our interests or the interests of other stockholders . to our knowledge, as of the date hereof, and based upon publicly-available sec filings, five institutional investors each presently hold over 5% of our common stock. while no stockholder or institutional investor individually holds a majority of our outstanding shares, these significant stockholders may be able, either individually or acting together, to exercise significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation, adoption or amendment of equity plans and approval of significant transactions such as mergers, acquisitions, consolidations and sales or purchases of assets. in addition, in the event of a proposed acquisition of the company by a third party, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change of control in us. accordingly, the interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, or otherwise be in the best interests of us or all stockholders. our anti-takeover protections may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and delaware law may make it difficult for any party to acquire control of us in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. these provisions include: (i) the ability of our board of directors to issue and determine the terms of preferred stock; (ii) advance notice requirements for inclusion of stockholder proposals at stockholder meetings; and (iii) the anti-takeover provisions of delaware law. these provisions could discourage or prevent a change of control or change in management that might provide stockholders with a premium to the market price of their common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 32 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate risk as of december 31, 2019 , the company had $2.2 billion in total debt principal outstanding. note 6 debt in the notes to consolidated financial statements provides additional information regarding the company's outstanding debt obligations. approximately $1.4 billion of the company's total debt outstanding as of december 31, 2019 was based on a floating base rate of interest, which potentially exposes the company to increases in interest rates. however, we reduce our overall exposure to interest rate increases through our interest rate swap contracts, which effectively convert the floating base interest rates on the borrowings to fixed rates. thus, we are only exposed to base interest rate risk on floating rate borrowings in excess of any amounts that are not hedged. at december 31, 2019 , the company was effectively fully hedged against the base interest rate risk on its floating rate borrowings. foreign currency risk a significant portion of our revenues are typically derived from sales outside of the united states. among the major foreign currencies in which we conduct business are the euro, the british pound, the japanese yen, the australian dollar and the canadian 32 dollar. the reporting currency of our consolidated financial statements is the u.s. dollar. as the values of the foreign currencies in which we operate fluctuate over time relative to the u.s. dollar, the company is exposed to both foreign currency translation and transaction risk. translation risk arises as our foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated into u.s. dollars because the functional currencies of our foreign operations are generally denominated in the local currency. adjustments resulting from the translation of these assets and liabilities are deferred and recorded as a component of stockholders' equity. a measure of the potential impact of foreign currency translation can be determined through a sensitivity analysis of our cash and cash equivalents. at december 31, 2019 , we had $280.8 million of cash and cash equivalents, with a substantial portion denominated in foreign currencies. if the exchange rates of the foreign currencies we hold all changed in comparison to the u.s. dollar by 10%, the amount of cash and cash equivalents we would have reported on december 31, 2019 could have increased or decreased by approximately $26.0 million . the translation of our foreign currency revenues and expenses historically has not had a material impact on our consolidated earnings because movements in and among the major currencies in which we operate tend to impact our revenues and expenses fairly equally. however, our earnings could be impacted during periods of significant exchange rate volatility, or when some or all of the major currencies in which we operate move in the same direction against the u.s. dollar. transaction risk arises when we enter into a transaction that is denominated in a currency that may differ from the local functional currency. as these transactions are translated into the local functional currency, a gain or loss may result, which is recorded in current period earnings. we typically enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to mitigate the effects of some of this foreign currency transaction risk. our outstanding foreign currency forward exchange contracts as of december 31, 2019 had an immaterial net unrealized gain. credit risk financial instruments that potentially subject the company to concentration of credit risk consist primarily of short-term, highly liquid investments classified as cash equivalents, fees receivable, interest rate swap contracts and foreign currency forward exchange contracts. the majority of the company's cash and cash equivalents, interest rate swap contracts and foreign currency forward exchange contracts are with large investment grade commercial banks. fees receivable balances deemed to be collectible from customers have limited concentration of credit risk due to our diverse customer base and geographic dispersion.risk factors 6 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 29risk factors 6 risk factors we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. in addition, we and our clients are affected by global economic conditions. the following sections discuss many, but not all, of the risks and uncertainties that may affect our future performance, but is not intended to be all-inclusive. any of the risks described below could have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows, and could therefore have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. additionally risks not currently known to us or that we now deem immaterial may also harm us and negatively affect your investment. risks related to our business our operating results could be negatively impacted by global economic conditions. our business is impacted by general economic conditions and trends, in the u.s and abroad. among these conditions are government deficit spending in the u.s. and other countries, ongoing uncertainty in global trade, difficulties related to the refinancing of sovereign debt, and currency stability. in addition, there continues to be risks related to one or more euro-zone countries discontinuing the use of the euro as their currency. these conditions could negatively and materially affect future demand for our products and services. such difficulties could include the ability to maintain client retention, wallet retention and consulting utilization rates, achieve contract value and consulting backlog growth, attract attendees and exhibitors to our events or obtain new clients. such developments could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we face significant competition and our failure to compete successfully could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we face direct competition from a significant number of independent providers of information products and services, including information available on the internet free of charge. we also compete indirectly against consulting firms and other information providers, including electronic and print media companies, some of which may have greater financial, information gathering and marketing resources than we do. these indirect competitors could also choose to compete directly with us in the future. in addition, limited barriers to entry exist in the markets in which we do business. as a result, additional new competitors may emerge and existing competitors may start to provide additional or complementary services. additionally, technological advances may provide increased competition from a variety of sources. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete against current and future competitors and our failure to do so could result in loss of market share, diminished value in our products and services, reduced pricing and increased marketing expenditures. furthermore, we may not be successful if we cannot compete effectively on quality of research and analysis, timely delivery of information, customer service, and the ability to offer products to meet changing market needs for information and analysis, or price. we may not be able to maintain our existing products and services. we operate in a rapidly evolving market, and our success depends upon our ability to deliver high quality and timely research and analysis to our clients. any failure to continue to provide credible and reliable information that is useful to our clients could have a material adverse effect on future business and operating results. further, if our predictions prove to be wrong or are not substantiated by appropriate research, our reputation may suffer and demand for our products and services may decline. in addition, we must continue to improve our methods for delivering our products and services in a cost-effective manner. failure to increase and improve our electronic delivery capabilities could adversely affect our future business and operating results. we may not be able to enhance and develop our existing products and services, or introduce the new products and services that are needed to remain competitive. the market for our products and services is characterized by rapidly changing needs for information and analysis on the it industry as a whole. the development of new products is a complex and time-consuming process. nonetheless, to maintain our competitive position, we must continue to anticipate the needs of our client organizations, enhance and improve our products and services, develop or acquire new products and services, deliver all products and services in a timely manner, and appropriately position and price new products and services relative to the marketplace and our costs of producing them. any failure to achieve successful client acceptance of new products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. additionally, significant delays in new product or services releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. we depend on renewals of subscription-based services and sales of new subscription-based services for a significant portion of our revenue, and our failure to renew at historical rates or generate new sales of such services could lead to a decrease in our revenues. a large portion of our success depends on our ability to generate renewals of our subscription-based research products and services and new sales of such products and services, both to new clients and existing clients. these products and services constituted 70% and 69% of our revenues for 2012 and 2011, respectively. generating new sales of our subscription-based products and services, both to new and existing clients, is often a time consuming process. if we are unable to generate new sales, due to competition or other factors, our revenues will be adversely affected. 6 our research subscription agreements are generally for twelve months. our ability to maintain contract renewals is subject to numerous factors, including the following: &bull; delivering high-quality and timely analysis and advice to our clients; &bull; understanding and anticipating market trends and the changing needs of our clients; and &bull; delivering products and services of the quality and timeliness necessary to withstand competition. additionally, as we continue to adjust our products and service offerings to meet our clients&rsquo; continuing needs, we may shift the type and pricing of our products which may impact client renewal rates. while our research client retention rate was 83% at december 31, 2012 and 82% at december 31, 2011, there can be no guarantee that we will continue to maintain this rate of client renewals. we depend on non-recurring consulting engagements and our failure to secure new engagements could lead to a decrease in our revenues. consulting segment revenues constituted 19% of our total revenues for 2012 and 21% for 2011. consulting engagements typically are project-based and non-recurring. our ability to replace consulting engagements is subject to numerous factors, including the following: &bull; delivering consistent, high-quality consulting services to our clients; &bull; tailoring our consulting services to the changing needs of our clients; and &bull; our ability to match the skills and competencies of our consulting staff to the skills required for the fulfillment of existing or potential consulting engagements. any material decline in our ability to replace consulting arrangements could have an adverse impact on our revenues and our financial condition. the profitability and success of our conferences, symposia and events could be adversely affected by external factors beyond our control. the market for desirable dates and locations for conferences, symposia and events is highly competitive. if we cannot secure desirable dates and locations for our conferences, symposia and events their profitability could suffer, and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. in addition, because our events are scheduled in advance and held at specific locations, the success of these events can be affected by circumstances outside of our control, such as labor strikes, transportation shutdowns and travel restrictions, economic slowdowns, terrorist attacks, weather, natural disasters, and other occurrences impacting the global, regional, or national economy, the occurrence of any of which could negatively impact the success of the event and as the global economy recovers, our ability to procure space for our events and keep associated costs down could become more challenging. our sales to governments are subject to appropriations and may be terminated. we derive significant revenues from contracts with the u.s. government and its respective agencies, numerous state and local governments and their respective agencies, and foreign governments and their agencies. at december 31, 2012 and 2011, approximately $255.0 million and $225.0 million, respectively, of our research contract value and consulting backlog was attributable to governments. we believe substantially all of the amount attributable to governments at december 31, 2012 will be filled in 2013. our u.s. government contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations by the u.s. congress to fund the agencies contracting for our services, and our contracts at the state and local levels are subject to various government authorizations and funding approvals and mechanisms. in general, most if not all of these contracts may be terminated at any time without cause (&ldquo;termination for convenience&rdquo;). additionally, many state governments, their agencies, and municipalities across the united states are under severe financial strain and are considering significant budget cuts. should appropriations for the governments and agencies that contract with us be curtailed, or should government contracts be terminated for convenience, we may experience a significant loss of segment and consolidated revenues. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel which could jeopardize the quality of our products and services. our success depends heavily upon the quality of our senior management, research analysts, consultants, sales and other key personnel. we face competition for the limited pool of these qualified professionals from, among others, technology companies, market research firms, consulting firms, financial services companies and electronic and print media companies, some of which have a greater ability to attract and compensate these professionals. some of the personnel that we attempt to hire are subject to non-compete agreements that could impede our short-term recruitment efforts. any failure to retain key personnel or hire and train additional qualified personnel as required to support the evolving needs of clients or growth in our business, could adversely affect the quality of our products and services, as well as future business and operating results. we may not be able to maintain the equity in our brand name. we believe that our &ldquo;gartner&rdquo; brand, including our independence, is critical to our efforts to attract and retain clients and that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition increases. we may expand our marketing activities to promote and strengthen the gartner brand and may need to increase our marketing budget, hire additional marketing and public relations personnel, and expend additional sums to protect our brand and otherwise increase 7 expenditures to create and maintain client brand loyalty. if we fail to effectively promote and maintain the gartner brand, or incur excessive expenses in doing so, our future business and operating results could be adversely impacted. our international operations expose us to a variety of operational risks which could negatively impact our future revenue and growth. we have clients in 85 countries and a substantial amount of our revenues are earned outside of the u.s. our operating results are subject to the risks inherent in international business activities, including general political and economic conditions in each country, changes in market demand as a result of tariffs and other trade barriers, challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations, changes in regulatory requirements, compliance with numerous foreign laws and regulations, differences between u.s. and foreign tax rates and laws, and the difficulty of enforcing client agreements, collecting accounts receivable and protecting intellectual property rights in international jurisdictions. furthermore, we rely on local distributors or sales agents in some international locations. if any of these arrangements are terminated by our agent or us, we may not be able to replace the arrangement on beneficial terms or on a timely basis, or clients of the local distributor or sales agent may not want to continue to do business with us or our new agent. our international operations expose us to volatility in foreign currency exchange rates. revenues earned outside the u.s. are typically transacted in local currencies, which may fluctuate significantly against the dollar. while we may use forward exchange contracts to a limited extent to seek to mitigate foreign currency risk, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. natural disasters or geo-political events may disrupt our business. a major weather event, terrorist attack, earthquake, flood, volcanic activity, or other catastrophic disaster could significantly disrupt our operations. such events could cause delays in initiating or completing sales, impede delivery of our products and services to our clients, disrupt other critical client-facing and business processes, or dislocate our critical internal functions and personnel. our corporate headquarters is located approximately 30 miles from new york city, and we have an operations center located in ft. myers, florida, a hurricane-prone area. we also operate in numerous international locations, and we have offices in a number of major cities across the globe. abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose a risk of general economic disruption in affected countries and regions, which may negatively impact our sales and increase our operating costs. additionally, these conditions also may add uncertainty to the timing and budget decisions of our clients. such events could significantly harm our ability to conduct normal business operations and negatively impact our financial condition and operating results. internet and critical internal computer system failures, cyber-attacks, or compromises of our systems or security could damage our reputation and harm our business. a significant portion of our business is conducted over the internet and we rely heavily on computer systems. a cyber-attack, widespread internet failure, or disruption of our critical information technology systems through viruses or other events could cause delays in initiating or completing sales, impede delivery of our products and services to our clients, disrupt other critical client-facing or business processes, or dislocate our critical internal functions. such events could significantly harm our ability to conduct normal business operations and negatively impact our financial condition and operating results. we take steps generally acknowledged as standard for the industry to secure our management information systems, including our computer systems, intranet, proprietary websites, email and other telecommunications and data networks, and we carefully scrutinize the security of outsourced website and service providers prior to retaining their services. however, the security measures implemented by us or by our outside service providers may not be effective and our systems (and those of our outside service providers) may be vulnerable to theft, loss, damage and interruption from a number of potential sources and events, including unauthorized access or security breaches, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, power loss, or other disruptive events. our reputation, brand, financial condition and/or operating results could be adversely affected if, as a result of a significant cyber event or other technology-related catastrophe, our operations are disrupted or shutdown; our confidential, proprietary information is stolen or disclosed; we incur costs or are required to pay fines in connection with stolen customer, employee, or other confidential information; we are required to dedicate significant resources to system repairs or increase cyber security protection; or we otherwise incur significant litigation or other costs as a result of these occurrences. we may experience outages and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure. our increasing user traffic and complexity of our products and services demand more computing power. we have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to maintain data centers and equipment and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle increased traffic on our websites. however, any inefficiencies or operational failures could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience, resulting in damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, potentially harming our financial condition and operating results. 8 our outstanding debt obligation could impact our financial condition or future operating results. we have a credit arrangement that provides for a five-year, $200.0 million term loan and a $400.0 million revolving credit facility (the 2010 credit agreement ). the credit arrangement contains an expansion feature by which the term loan and revolving facility may be increased, at our option and under certain conditions, by up to an additional $150.0 million in the aggregate which may or may not be available to us depending upon prevailing credit market conditions. at both december 31, 2012 and 2011, we had a total of $200.0 million outstanding under the 2010 credit agreement. the affirmative, negative and financial covenants of the 2010 credit agreement could limit our future financial flexibility. additionally, a failure to comply with these covenants could result in acceleration of all amounts outstanding under the arrangement, which would materially impact our financial condition unless accommodations could be negotiated with our lenders. no assurance can be given that we would be successful in doing so in this current financial climate, or that any accommodations that we were able to negotiate would be on terms as favorable as those presently contained in the credit arrangement. the associated debt service costs of this credit arrangement could impair our future operating results. the outstanding debt may limit the amount of cash or additional credit available to us, which could restrain our ability to expand or enhance products and services, respond to competitive pressures or pursue future business opportunities requiring substantial investments of additional capital. we may require additional cash resources which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. we believe that our existing cash balances, projected cash flow from operations, and the borrowing capacity we have under our revolving credit facility will be sufficient to fund our plans for the next 12 months and the foreseeable future. however, we may require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions, implementation of our strategy and stock repurchase program, to repay indebtedness or to pursue future business opportunities requiring substantial investments of additional capital. if our existing financial resources are insufficient to satisfy our requirements, we may seek additional borrowings. prevailing credit market conditions may negatively affect debt availability and cost, and, as a result, financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. in addition, the incurrence of additional indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could require us to agree to operating and financial covenants that would further restrict our operations. if we are unable to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights our competitive position may be harmed. we rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, confidentiality, non-compete and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property rights. despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized third parties may obtain and use technology or other information that we regard as proprietary. our intellectual property rights may not survive a legal challenge to their validity or provide significant protection for us. the laws of certain countries, particularly in emerging markets, do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. accordingly, we may not be able to protect our intellectual property against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. our employees are subject to non-compete agreements. when the non-competition period expires, former employees may compete against us. if a former employee chooses to compete against us prior to the expiration of the non-competition period, we seek to enforce these non-compete provisions but there is no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts. additionally, there can be no assurance that another party will not assert that we have infringed its intellectual property rights. we have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions and strategic investments, which could involve substantial risks. we have made and may continue to make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses that offer complementary products and services. the risks involved in each acquisition or investment include the possibility of paying more than the value we derive from the acquisition, dilution of the interests of our current stockholders or decreased working capital, increased indebtedness, the assumption of undisclosed liabilities and unknown and unforeseen risks, the ability to retain key personnel of the acquired company, the inability to integrate the business of the acquired company, the time to train the sales force to market and sell the products of the acquired business, the potential disruption of our ongoing business and the distraction of management from our business. the realization of any of these risks could adversely affect our business. additionally, we face competition in identifying acquisition targets and consummating acquisitions. we face risks related to litigation. we are, and may in the future be, subject to a variety of legal actions, such as employment, breach of contract, intellectual property-related, and business torts, including claims of unfair trade practices and misappropriation of trade secrets. given the nature of our business, we are also subject to defamation (including libel and slander), negligence, or other claims relating to the information we publish. regardless of the merits, responding to any such claim could be time consuming, result in costly litigation and require us to enter into settlements, royalty and licensing agreements which may not be offered or available on reasonable terms. if a successful claim is made against us and we fail to settle the claim on reasonable terms, our business, results of operations or financial position could be materially adversely affected. 9 we face risks related to taxation. we operate in numerous domestic and foreign taxing jurisdictions. changes to the tax laws as well as the level of operations and profitability in each jurisdiction may have an unfavorable impact upon the amount of taxes that we recognize in any given year. in addition, our tax filings for various tax years are subject to audit by the tax authorities in jurisdictions where we conduct business, and in the ordinary course of business, we may be under audit by one or more tax authorities from time to time. these audits may result in assessments of additional taxes, and resolution of these matters involves uncertainties and there are no assurances that the ultimate resolution will not exceed the amounts we have recorded. additionally, the results of an audit could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. we operate in a number of countries, and as a result we are required to comply with numerous, and in many cases, changing international and u.s. federal, state and local laws and regulations. as a result, we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program which includes the creation of appropriate policies defining employee behavior that mandate adherence to laws, employee training, annual affirmations, monitoring and enforcement. however, if any employee fails to comply with, or intentionally disregards, any of these laws or regulations, a range of liabilities could result for the employee and for the company, including, but not limited to, significant penalties and fines, sanctions and/or litigation, and the expenses associated with defending and resolving any of the foregoing, any of which could have a material impact on our business. risks related to our common stock our operating results may fluctuate from period to period and may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors or guidance we have given, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate in the future as a result of many factors, including the timing of the execution of research contracts, the extent of completion of consulting engagements, the timing of symposia and other events, the amount of new business generated, the mix of domestic and international business, currency fluctuations, changes in market demand for our products and services, the timing of the development, introduction and marketing of new products and services, and competition in the industry. an inability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flow, and achieve our forecasts, may impact our operating and other activities. the potential fluctuations in our operating results could cause period-to-period comparisons of operating results not to be meaningful and may provide an unreliable indication of future operating results. furthermore, our operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in the future or guidance we have given. if this occurs, the price of our stock would likely decline. our stock price may be impacted by factors outside of our control and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid. the trading prices of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to, among other factors, developments in the industries in which we do business, general economic conditions, general market conditions, changes in the nature and composition of our stockholder base, changes in securities analysts&rsquo; recommendations regarding our securities and our performance relative to securities analysts&rsquo; expectations for any quarterly period, as well as other factors outside of our control. these factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our stock price. sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock in the public market by our current stockholders, or the threat that substantial sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease significantly or make it difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling stock. furthermore, we have various equity incentive plans that provide for awards in the form of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other stock-based awards which have the effect of adding shares of common stock into the public market. as of december 31, 2012, the aggregate number of shares of our common stock issuable pursuant to outstanding grants and awards under these plans was approximately 4.8 million shares (approximately 1.2 million of which have vested). in addition, approximately 6.4 million shares may be issued in connection with future awards under our equity incentive plans. shares of common stock issued under these plans are freely transferable without further registration under the securities act of 1933, as amended (the &ldquo;securities act&rdquo;), except for any shares held by affiliates (as that term is defined in rule 144 under the securities act). we cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. interests of certain of our significant stockholders may conflict with yours . to our knowledge, as of december 31, 2012, and based upon publicly-available sec filings, four institutional investors each presently hold over 5% of our common stock. while no stockholder or institutional investor individually holds a majority of our outstanding shares, these significant stockholders may be able, either individually or acting together, to exercise significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation, adoption or amendment of equity plans and approval of significant transactions such as mergers, acquisitions, consolidations and sales or purchases of assets. in addition, in the event of a proposed acquisition of the company by a third party, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change of control in us. accordingly, the interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, or otherwise be in the best interests of us or all stockholders. 10 our anti-takeover protections may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and delaware law may make it difficult for any party to acquire control of us in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. these provisions include: &bull; the ability of our board of directors to issue and determine the terms of preferred stock; &bull; advance notice requirements for inclusion of stockholder proposals at stockholder meetings; and &bull; the anti-takeover provisions of delaware law. these provisions could discourage or prevent a change of control or change in management that might provide stockholders with a premium to the market price of their common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 26 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate risk we have exposure to changes in interest rates arising from borrowings under our 2010 credit agreement. at december 31, 2012, we had $150.0 million outstanding under the term loan and $50.0 million outstanding under the revolver. borrowings under this facility are floating rate, which may be either prime-based or eurodollar-based. the rate paid for these borrowings includes a base floating rate plus a margin between 0.50% and 1.25% on prime borrowings and between 1.50% and 2.25% on eurodollar-based borrowings. we have an interest rate swap contract which effectively converts the floating base rate on the first $200.0 million of our borrowings to a 2.26% fixed rate. the company only hedges the base interest rate risk on the first $200.0 million of its outstanding borrowings. accordingly, we are exposed to interest rate risk on borrowings in excess of $200.0 million. a 25 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates could change pre-tax annual interest expense on the additional revolver borrowing capacity under the 2010 credit agreement (not including the expansion feature) by approximately $0.9 million. 26 foreign currency risk approximately 46% of our revenues for both the fiscal years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011 were derived from sales outside of the u.s. as a result, we conduct business in numerous currencies other than the u.s dollar. among the major foreign currencies in which we conduct business are the eurodollar, the british pound, the japanese yen, the australian dollar, and the canadian dollar. our foreign currency exposure results in both translation risk and transaction risk: translation risk we are exposed to foreign currency translation risk since the functional currencies of our foreign operations are generally denominated in the local currency. translation risk arises since the assets and liabilities that we report for our foreign subsidiaries are translated into u.s. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet dates, and these exchange rates fluctuate over time. these foreign currency translation adjustments are deferred and are recorded as a component of stockholders&rsquo; equity and do not impact our operating results. a measure of the potential impact of foreign currency translation on our condensed consolidated balance sheets can be determined through a sensitivity analysis of our cash and cash equivalents. at december 31, 2012, we had almost $300.0 million of cash and cash equivalents, with approximately half denominated in foreign currencies. if the foreign exchange rates of the major currencies in which we operate changed in comparison to the u.s. dollar by 10%, the amount of cash and cash equivalents we would have reported on december 31, 2012 would have increased or decreased by approximately $12.0 million. because our foreign subsidiaries generally operate in a local functional currency that differs from the u.s. dollar, revenues and expenses in these foreign currencies translate into higher or lower revenues and expenses in u.s. dollars as the u.s. dollar continuously weakens or strengthens against these other currencies. therefore, changes in exchange rates may affect our consolidated revenues and expenses (as expressed in u.s. dollars) from foreign operations. historically, this impact on our consolidated earnings has not been material since foreign currency movements in the major currencies in which we operate tend to impact our revenues and expenses fairly equally. transaction risk we also have foreign exchange transaction risk since foreign subsidiaries typically enter into transactions in the normal course of business that are denominated in foreign currencies that differ from the local functional currency in which the foreign subsidiary operates. we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to mitigate the effects of foreign currency transaction risk. these contracts are normally short term in duration and unrealized and realized gains and losses are recognized in current period earnings. at december 31, 2012, we had 68 outstanding foreign currency forward contracts with a total notional amount of $76.1 million and an immaterial net unrealized gain. all of these contracts matured by the end of january 2013. credit risk financial instruments that potentially subject the company to concentration of credit risk consist primarily of short-term, highly liquid investments classified as cash equivalents, accounts receivable, and interest rate swap contracts. the majority of the company&rsquo;s cash and cash equivalents and its interest rate swap contracts are with large investment grade commercial banks that are participants in the company&rsquo;s 2010 credit agreement. accounts receivable balances deemed to be collectible from customers have limited concentration of credit risk due to our diverse customer base and geographic dispersion.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 22 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate risk as of december 31, 2002, we have exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates primarily from borrowings under long-term debt which consists of a $200.0 million unsecured senior revolving credit facility with jpmorgan chase bank and $351.5 million of 6% convertible subordinated notes (see note 10--debt in the notes to consolidated financial statements). at december 31, 2002, there were no amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility and our borrowing availability was $58.7 million. under the revolving credit facility, the interest rate on borrowings is libor plus an additional 100 to 200 basis points based on our debt-to-ebitda ratio. we believe that an increase or decrease of 10% in the effective interest rate on available borrowings from our senior revolving credit facility, if fully utilized, would not have a material effect on our future results of operations. if markets were to decline, we could be required to accrue interest on the 6% convertible debt that would exceed those based on current market rates. each 25 basis point decrease in interest would have an associated annual opportunity cost of approximately $0.9 million based on the december 31, 2002 balance. each 25 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would have an approximate $0.5 million annual effect under the revolving credit facility if fully utilized. investment risk we are exposed to market risk as it relates to changes in the market value of our equity investments. we invest in equity securities of public and private companies directly and through si i, a wholly-owned affiliate, and si ii, of which we own 34%. si i and si ii are engaged in making venture capital investments in early to mid-stage it-based or internet-enabled companies (see note 5 - investments in the notes to the consolidated financial statements). as of december 31, 2002, we had investments in equity securities totaling $10.7 million. unrealized losses of $25,272 have been recorded net of deferred taxes of $16,848 as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income in the stockholders' (deficit) equity section of the consolidated balance sheets. these investments are inherently risky as the businesses are typically in early development stages and may never develop. further, certain of these investments are in publicly traded companies whose shares are subject to significant market price volatility. adverse changes in market conditions and 22 poor operating results of the underlying investments may result in us incurring additional losses or an inability to recover the original carrying value of our investments. if there were a 100% adverse change in the value of our equity portfolio as of december 31, 2002, this would result in a non-cash impairment charge of $10.7 million. we are continuing efforts to sell all of our investments owned through si i and si ii. foreign currency exchange risk we face two risks related to foreign currency exchange: translation risk and transaction risk. amounts invested in our foreign operations are translated into u.s. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date. the resulting translation adjustments are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the stockholders' equity (deficit) section of the consolidated balance sheets. our foreign subsidiaries generally collect revenues and pay expenses in currencies other than the united states dollar. since the functional currency of our foreign operations are generally denominated in the local currency of our subsidiaries, the foreign currency translation adjustments are reflected as a component of stockholders' equity and do not impact operating results. revenues and expenses in foreign currencies translate into higher or lower revenues and expenses in u.s. dollars as the u.s. dollar weakens or strengthens against other currencies. therefore, changes in exchange rates may negatively affect our consolidated revenues and expenses (as expressed in u.s. dollars) from foreign operations. currency transaction gains or losses arising from transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are included in results of operations. from time to time we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative financial instruments to hedge the effects of adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. at december 31, 2002, we had three foreign currency forward contracts outstanding. foreign exchange forward contracts are reflected at fair value with gains and losses recorded currently in earnings. the following table presents information about our foreign currency forward contracts outstanding as of december 31, 2002, expressed in u.s. dollar equivalents. unrealized gain (loss) currency currency contract forward at december 31, 2002 purchased sold amount exchange rate $000 expiration date - --------- ---- ------ ------------- ---- --------------- swiss francs u.s. dollars $4.9 million 1.4000 $ 45 january 24, 2003 norwegian krona u.s. dollars $1.0 million 7.0949 $ 13 january 24, 2003 euros u.s. dollars $5.3 million 1.0370 $ 55 january 24, 2003quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 24 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate risk as of december 31, 2004, we have exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates since we had $190.0 million drawn on our unsecured senior revolving credit facility with jpmorgan chase bank. under the revolving credit facility, the interest rate on borrowings is libor plus an additional 100 to 150 basis points based on our debt-to-ebitda ratio. however, we believe that an increase or decrease of 10% in the effective interest rate on available borrowings from our senior revolving credit facility would not have a material effect on our future results of operations. each 25 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would have an approximate $0.5 million annual effect under the revolving credit facility when fully utilized. investment risk we are exposed to market risk as it relates to changes in the market value of our equity investments. we invest in equity securities of public and private companies directly and through si ii, of which we own 22% at december 31, 2004. si ii is engaged in making venture capital investments in early to mid-stage it-based or internet-enabled companies (see note 5 investments in the notes to the consolidated financial statements). as of december 31, 2004, we had investments in equity securities totaling $7.0 million. these investments are inherently risky as the businesses are typically in early development stages and may never develop. further, certain of these investments are in publicly traded companies whose shares are subject to significant market price volatility. adverse changes in market conditions and poor operating results of the underlying investments may result in us incurring additional losses or an inability to recover the original carrying value of our investments. if there were a 100% adverse change in the value of our equity portfolio as of december 31, 2004, this would result in a non-cash impairment charge of $7.0 million. we had no additional commitments to fund si ii as of december 31, 2004. foreign currency exchange risk we face two risks related to foreign currency exchange: translation risk and transaction risk. amounts invested in our foreign operations are translated into u.s. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date. the resulting translation adjustments are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the stockholders equity section of the consolidated balance sheets. our foreign subsidiaries generally collect revenues and pay expenses in currencies other than the united states dollar. since the functional currencies of our foreign operations are generally denominated in the local currency of our subsidiaries, the foreign currency translation adjustments are reflected as a component of stockholders equity and do not impact operating results. revenues and expenses in foreign currencies translate into higher or lower revenues and expenses in u.s. dollars as the u.s. dollar weakens or strengthens against other currencies. therefore, changes in exchange rates may negatively affect our consolidated revenues and expenses (as expressed in u.s. dollars) from foreign operations. currency transaction gains or losses arising from transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are included within other income (expense), net within the consolidated statements of operations. currency transaction gains (losses), net were $(3.1) million during calendar 2004, $0.5 million during calendar 2003, $(0.4) million during calendar 2002, $(0.1) million during transition 2002, and $(0.8) million during fiscal 2002. from time to time we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative financial instruments to hedge the effects of adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. foreign exchange forward contracts are reflected at fair value with gains and losses recorded in earnings. at december 31, 2004, we had no foreign currency forward contracts or other derivative financial instruments outstanding.risk factors 6 risk factors we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. in addition, we and our clients are affected by the economy. the following section discusses many, but not all, of these risks and uncertainties. our operating results could be negatively impacted if the it industry experiences an economic down cycle . our revenues and results of operations are influenced by economic conditions in general and more particularly by business conditions in the it industry. a general economic downturn or recession, anywhere in the world, could negatively affect demand for our products and services and may substantially reduce existing and potential client information technology-related budgets. such a downturn could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, including the ability to: maintain client retention, wallet retention and consulting utilization rates, and achieve contract value and consulting backlog. we have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions and strategic investments, which could involve substantial risks . we have made and may continue to make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses that offer complementary products and services, including our acquisition of meta that we completed on april 1, 2005. the risks involved in each acquisition or investment include the possibility of paying more than the value we derive from the acquisition, dilution of the interests of our current stockholders or decreased working capital, increased indebtedness, the assumption of undisclosed liabilities and unknown and unforeseen risks, the ability to retain key personnel of the acquired company, the time to train the sales force to market and sell the products of the acquired business, the potential disruption of our ongoing business and the distraction of management from our business. the realization of any of these risks could adversely affect our business. we face significant competition and our failure to compete successfully could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition . we face direct competition from a significant number of independent providers of information products and services, including information that can be found on the internet free of charge. we also compete indirectly against consulting firms and other information providers, including electronic and print media companies, some of which may have greater financial, information gathering and marketing resources than we do. these indirect competitors could also choose to compete directly with us in the future. in addition, limited barriers to entry exist in the markets in which we do business. as a result, additional new competitors may emerge and existing competitors may start to provide additional or complementary services. additionally, technological advances may provide increased competition from a variety of sources. however, we believe the breadth and depth of our research assets position us well versus our competition. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete against current and future competitors and our failure to do so could result in loss of market share, diminished value in our products and services, reduced pricing and increased marketing expenditures. furthermore, we may not be successful if we cannot compete effectively on quality of research and analysis, timely delivery of information, customer service, and the ability to offer products to meet changing market needs for information and analysis, or price. we depend on renewals of subscription base services and our failure to renew at historical rates could lead to a decrease in our revenues. some of our success depends on renewals of our subscription-based research products and services, which constituted 53% and 54% of our revenues for calendar 2005 and calendar 2004, respectively. these research subscription agreements have terms that generally range from twelve to thirty months. our ability to maintain contract renewals is subject to numerous factors, including the following: 6 table of contents delivering high-quality and timely analysis and advice to our clients; understanding and anticipating market trends and the changing needs of our clients; and delivering products and services of the quality and timeliness necessary to withstand competition. additionally, as we implement our strategy to realign our business to client needs, we may shift the type and pricing of our products which may impact client renewal rates. while research client retention rates were 81% and 80% at december 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, there can be no guarantee that we will continue to maintain this rate of client renewals. any material decline in renewal rates could have an adverse impact on our revenues and our financial condition. we depend on non-recurring consulting engagements and our failure to secure new engagements could lead to a decrease in our revenues. consulting segment revenues constituted 30% of our revenues for calendar 2005 and 29% for calendar 2004. these consulting engagements typically are project-based and non-recurring. our ability to replace consulting engagements is subject to numerous factors, including the following: delivering consistent, high-quality consulting services to our clients; tailoring our consulting services to the changing needs of our clients; and our ability to match the skills and competencies of our consulting staff to the skills required for the fulfillment of existing or potential consulting engagements. any material decline in our ability to replace consulting arrangements could have an adverse impact on our revenues and our financial condition. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel which could jeopardize the quality of our products and services our success depends heavily upon the quality of our senior management, research analysts, consultants, sales and other key personnel. we face competition for the limited pool of these qualified professionals from, among others, technology companies, market research firms, consulting firms, financial services companies and electronic and print media companies, some of which have a greater ability to attract and compensate these professionals. some of the personnel that we attempt to hire are subject to non-compete agreements that could impede our short-term recruitment efforts. any failure to retain key personnel or hire and train additional qualified personnel as required to support the evolving needs of clients or growth in our business, could adversely affect the quality of our products and services, and our future business and operating results. we may not be able to maintain our existing products and services . we operate in a rapidly evolving market, and our success depends upon our ability to deliver high quality and timely research and analysis to our clients. any failure to continue to provide credible and reliable information that is useful to our clients could have a material adverse effect on future business and operating results. further, if our predictions prove to be wrong or are not substantiated by appropriate research, our reputation may suffer and demand for our products and services may decline. in addition, we must continue to improve our methods for delivering our products and services in a cost-effective manner. failure to increase and improve our electronic delivery capabilities could adversely affect our future business and operating results. we may not be able to introduce the new products and services that we need to remain competitive . the market for our products and services is characterized by rapidly changing needs for information and analysis. to maintain our competitive position, we must continue to enhance and improve our products and services, develop or acquire new products and services in a timely manner, and appropriately position and price new products and services relative to the marketplace and our costs of producing them. any failure to achieve successful client acceptance of new products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial position. our international operations expose us to a variety of risks which could negatively impact our future revenue and growth . approximately 38% of our revenues for calendar 2005 were derived from sales outside of north america. as a result, our operating results are subject to the risks inherent in international business activities, including general political and economic conditions in each country, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in market demand as a result of tariffs and other trade barriers, challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations, changes in regulatory requirements, compliance with numerous foreign laws and regulations, different or overlapping tax structures, higher levels of united states taxation on foreign income, and the difficulty of enforcing client agreements, collecting accounts receivable and protecting intellectual property rights in international jurisdictions. furthermore, we rely on local distributors or sales agents in some international locations. if any of these arrangements are terminated by our agent or us, we may not be able to replace the arrangement on beneficial terms or on a timely basis, or clients of the local distributor or sales agent may not want to continue to do business with us or our new agent. 7 table of contents we may not be able to maintain the equity in our brand name . we believe that our gartner brand, including our independence, is critical to our efforts to attract and retain clients and that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition increases. we may expand our marketing activities to promote and strengthen the gartner brand and may need to increase our marketing budget, hire additional marketing and public relations personnel, expend additional sums to protect the brand and otherwise increase expenditures to create and maintain client brand loyalty. if we fail to effectively promote and maintain the gartner brand, or incur excessive expenses in doing so, our future business and operating results could be materially and adversely impacted. the costs of servicing our outstanding debt obligations could impair our future operating results . we have a $200.0 million term loan as well as a $125.0 million revolving credit facility. the affirmative, negative and financial covenants of the credit facility could limit our future financial flexibility. the associated debt service costs of these facilities could impair our future operating results. the outstanding debt may limit the amount of cash or additional credit available to us, which could restrain our ability to expand or enhance products and services, respond to competitive pressures or pursue future business opportunities requiring substantial investments of additional capital. if we are unable to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights our competitive position may be harmed . we rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark, trade secret, confidentiality, non-compete and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property rights. despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized third parties may obtain and use technology or other information that we regard as proprietary. our intellectual property rights may not survive a legal challenge to their validity or provide significant protection for us. the laws of certain countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. accordingly, we may not be able to protect our intellectual property against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. our employees are subject to non-compete agreements. when the non-competition period expires, former employees may compete against us. if a former employee chooses to compete against us prior to the expiration of the non-competition period, there is no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to enforce the non-compete provision. we may be subject to infringement claims . third parties may assert infringement claims against us. regardless of the merits, responding to any such claim could be time consuming, result in costly litigation and require us to enter into royalty and licensing agreements which may not be offered or available on reasonable terms. if a successful claim is made against us and we fail to develop or license a substitute technology, our business, results of operations or financial position could be materially adversely affected. our operating results may fluctuate from period to period and may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate in the future as a result of many factors, including the timing of the execution of research contracts, which typically occurs in the fourth calendar quarter, the extent of completion of consulting engagements, the timing of symposia and other events, which also occur to a greater extent in the fourth calendar quarter, the amount of new business generated, the mix of domestic and international business, changes in market demand for our products and services, the timing of the development, introduction and marketing of new products and services, and competition in the industry. an inability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flow, and achieve our forecasts, may impact our operating and other activities. the potential fluctuations in our operating results could cause period-to-period comparisons of operating results not to be meaningful and may provide an unreliable indication of future operating results. furthermore, our operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in the future. if this occurs, the price of our stock would likely decline. interests of certain of our significant stockholders may conflict with yours . silver lake partners, l.p. ( slp ) and its affiliates own approximately 33.0% of our common stock as of february 28, 2006. slp is restricted from purchasing additional stock without our consent pursuant to the terms of a securityholders agreement. this securityholders agreement also provides that we cannot take certain actions, including acquisitions and sales of stock and/or assets without slp consent. additionally, valueact partners and its affiliates own approximately 16.3% of our common stock as of february 28, 2006. while neither slp nor valueact holds a majority of our outstanding shares, they may be able, either individually or together, to exercise significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers, consolidations and sales of our assets. their interests may differ from the interests of other stockholders. our anti-takeover protections may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders . provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and delaware law may make it difficult for any party to acquire control of us in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. these provisions include: the ability of our board of directors to issue and determine the terms of preferred stock; advance notice requirements for inclusion of stockholder proposals at stockholder meetings; a preferred shares rights agreement; and the anti-takeover provisions of delaware law. 8 table of contents these provisions could discourage or prevent a change of control or change in management that might provide stockholders with a premium to the market price of their common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 26 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate risk as of december 31, 2005, we have exposure to changes in interest rates since we had $246.7 million outstanding on our unsecured credit agreement with jpmorgan chase bank, with $196.7 million outstanding on the term loan and $50.0 million outstanding on the revolver. under the credit agreement, the interest rate on our borrowings is libor plus an additional 100 to 150 basis points based on our debt-to-ebitda ratio. during the fourth quarter of calendar 2005 we entered into an interest rate swap contract which effectively converts the floating base interest rate on the term loan to a fixed rate. accordingly, the base interest rate risk on the term loan has been eliminated, but we are still exposed to interest rate risk on the revolver. however, a 25 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would only have an approximate $0.3 million pre-tax annual effect under the revolver when fully utilized. investment risk we are exposed to market risk as it relates to changes in the market value of our equity investments. as of december 31, 2005, we had investments in equity securities totaling $0.3 million (see note 3 investments in the notes to the consolidated financial statements). if there were a 100% adverse change in the value of our equity portfolio as of december 31, 2005, this would result in a non-cash impairment charge of approximately $0.3 million. foreign currency exchange risk we face two risks related to foreign currency exchange: translation risk and transaction risk. amounts invested in our foreign operations are translated into u.s. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date. the resulting translation adjustments are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the stockholders equity section of the consolidated balance sheets. our foreign subsidiaries generally collect revenues and pay expenses in currencies other than the united states dollar. since the functional currencies of our foreign operations are generally denominated in the local currency of our subsidiaries, the foreign currency translation adjustments are reflected as a component of stockholders equity and do not impact operating results. revenues and expenses in foreign currencies translate into higher or lower revenues and expenses in u.s. dollars as the u.s. dollar weakens or strengthens against other currencies. therefore, changes in exchange rates may negatively affect our consolidated revenues and expenses (as expressed in u.s. dollars) from foreign operations. currency transaction gains or losses arising from transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are included within other income (expense), net within the consolidated statements of operations. currency transaction gains (losses), net were $(2.8) million, $(3.1) million, and $0.5 million during 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. from time to time we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative financial instruments to offset the effects of adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. foreign exchange forward contracts are reflected at fair value with unrealized and realized gains and losses recorded in earnings. the following table presents information about our foreign currency forward contracts outstanding as of december 31, 2005, expressed in u.s. dollar equivalents: forward currency contract exchange unrealized expiration purchased currency sold amount rate gain (loss) date yen eur 3,595,000 .0072 (14,000 ) january 24, 2006 eur sgd 612,000 1.9631 4,000 january 24, 2006 aud eur 3,340,000 .6212 (20,000 ) january 24, 2006 eur sek 1,119,000 9.3849 4,000 january 24, 2006 dkk eur 2,189,000 .1340 (1,000 ) january 24, 2006 chf eur 4,447,000 .6439 (11,000 ) january 24, 2006 gbp eur 3,101,000 1.4560 (3,000 ) january 24, 2006 eur usd 2,582,000 1.1803 16,000 january 24, 2006 usd eur 17,815,000 .8398 46,000 january 26, 2006 usd aud 3,448,000 1.3762 (33,000 ) january 26, 2006 usd eur 10,570,000 .8386 42,000 january 26, 2006risk factors 6 risk factors factors that may affect future performance. we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. in addition, we and our clients are affected by the economy. the following section discusses many, but not all, of these risks and uncertainties. risks related to our business our operating results could be negatively impacted if the it industry experiences an economic down cycle. our revenues and results of operations are influenced by economic conditions in general and more particularly by business conditions in the it industry. a general economic downturn or recession, anywhere in the world, could negatively affect demand for our products and services and may substantially reduce existing and potential client information technology-related budgets. such a downturn could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, including the ability to maintain client retention, wallet retention and consulting utilization rates, and achieve contract value and consulting backlog growth. we face significant competition and our failure to compete successfully could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we face direct competition from a significant number of independent providers of information products and services, including information that can be found on the internet free of charge. we also compete indirectly against consulting firms and other information providers, including electronic and print media companies, some of which may have greater financial, information gathering and marketing resources than we do. these indirect competitors could also choose to compete directly with us in the future. in addition, limited barriers to entry exist in the markets in which we do business. as a result, additional new competitors may emerge and existing competitors may start to provide additional or complementary services. additionally, technological advances may provide increased competition from a variety of sources. however, we believe the breadth and depth of our research assets position us well versus our competition. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete against current and future competitors and our failure to do so could result in loss of market share, diminished value in our products and services, reduced pricing and increased marketing expenditures. furthermore, we may not be successful if we cannot compete effectively on quality of research and analysis, timely delivery of information, customer service, and the ability to offer products to meet changing market needs for information and analysis, or price. we may not be able to maintain our existing products and services. we operate in a rapidly evolving market, and our success depends upon our ability to deliver high quality and timely research and analysis to our clients. any failure to continue to provide credible and reliable information that is useful to our clients could have a material adverse effect on future business and operating results. further, if our predictions prove to be wrong or are not substantiated by appropriate research, our reputation may suffer and demand for our products and services may decline. in addition, we must continue to improve our methods for delivering our products and services in a cost-effective manner. failure to increase and improve our electronic delivery capabilities could adversely affect our future business and operating results. we may not be able to introduce the new products and services that we need to remain competitive. the market for our products and services is characterized by rapidly changing needs for information and analysis. to maintain our competitive position, we must continue to enhance and approve our products and services, develop or acquire new products and services in a timely manner, and appropriately position and price new products and services relative to the marketplace and our costs of producing them. any failure to achieve successful client acceptance of new products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial position. we depend on renewals of subscription based services and sales of new subscription based services for a significant portion of our revenue, and our failure to renew at historical rates or generate new sales of such services could lead to a decrease in our revenues. a large portion of our success depends on our ability to generate renewals of our subscription-based research products and services and new sales of such products and services, both to new clients and existing clients. these products and services constituted 54% and 53% of our revenues for 2006 and 2005, respectively. if we are not able to renew at historical rates, and do not generate new sales in an amount sufficient to account for the shortfall arising from a decrease in renewals, our revenues will be negatively affected. our research subscription agreements have terms that generally range from twelve to thirty months. our ability to maintain contract renewals is subject to numerous factors, including the following: delivering high-quality and timely analysis and advice to our clients; understanding and anticipating market trends and the changing needs of our clients; and delivering products and services of the quality and timeliness necessary to withstand competition. 6 table of contents additionally, as we implement our strategy to realign our business to client needs, we may shift the type and pricing of our products which may impact client renewal rates. while research client retention rates were 81% at both december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, there can be no guarantee that we will continue to maintain this rate of client renewals. generating new sales of our subscription based products and services, both to new and existing clients, is often a time consuming process. if we are unable to generate new sales, due to competition or other factors, our revenues will be adversely affected. we depend on non-recurring consulting engagements and our failure to secure new engagements could lead to a decrease in our revenues. consulting segment revenues constituted 29% and 30% of our revenues for 2006 and 2005, respectively. these consulting engagements typically are project-based and non-recurring. our ability to replace consulting engagements is subject to numerous factors, including the following: delivering consistent, high-quality consulting services to our clients; tailoring our consulting services to the changing needs of our clients; and our ability to match the skills and competencies of our consulting staff to the skills required for the fulfillment of existing or potential consulting engagements. any material decline in our ability to replace consulting arrangements could have an adverse impact on our revenues and our financial condition. the profitability and success of our conferences, symposia and events could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain desirable dates and locations. the market for desirable dates and locations for conferences, symposia and events is highly competitive. if we cannot secure desirable dates and locations for our conferences, symposia and events their profitability could suffer, and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. in addition, because our events are scheduled in advance and held at specific locations, the success of these events can be affected by circumstances outside of our control, such as labor strikes, transportation shutdowns, economic slowdowns, terrorist attacks, natural disasters and other world events impacting the global economy, the occurrence of any of which could negatively impact the success of the event. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel which could jeopardize the quality of our products and services. our success depends heavily upon the quality of our senior management, research analysts, consultants, sales and other key personnel. we face competition for the limited pool of these qualified professionals from, among others, technology companies, market research firms, consulting firms, financial services companies and electronic and print media companies, some of which have a greater ability to attract and compensate these professionals. some of the personnel that we attempt to hire are subject to non-compete agreements that could impede our short-term recruitment efforts. any failure to retain key personnel or hire and train additional qualified personnel as required to support the evolving needs of clients or growth in our business, could adversely affect the quality of our products and services, and our future business and operating results. we may not be able to maintain the equity in our brand name. we believe that our gartner brand, including our independence, is critical to our efforts to attract and retain clients and that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition increases. we may expand our marketing activities to promote and strengthen the gartner brand and may need to increase our marketing budget, hire additional marketing and public relations personnel, expend additional sums to protect the brand and otherwise increase expenditures to create and maintain client brand loyalty. if we fail to effectively promote and maintain the gartner brand, or incur excessive expenses in doing so, our future business and operating results could be materially and adversely impacted. our international operations expose us to a variety of risks which could negatively impact our future revenue and growth. approximately 40% of our revenues for 2006 and 38% for 2005 were derived from sales outside of north america. as a result, our operating results are subject to the risks inherent in international business activities, including general political and economic conditions in each country, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in market demand as a result of tariffs and other trade barriers, challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations, changes in regulatory requirements, compliance with numerous foreign laws and regulations, differences between u.s. and foreign tax rates, and the difficulty of enforcing client agreements, collecting accounts receivable and protecting intellectual property rights in international jurisdictions. furthermore, we rely on local distributors or sales agents in some international locations. if any of these arrangements are terminated by our agent or us, we may not be able to replace the arrangement on beneficial terms or on a timely basis, or clients of the local distributor or sales agent may not want to continue to do business with us or our new agent. 7 table of contents the costs of servicing our outstanding debt obligations could impair our future operating results. in january 2007, we refinanced our debt and we now have a $180.0 million term loan as well as a $300.0 million revolving credit facility (which we can increase to $400.0 million). the affirmative, negative and financial covenants of the credit facility could limit our future financial flexibility. the associated debt service costs of these facilities could impair our future operating results. the outstanding debt may limit the amount of cash or additional credit available to us, which could restrain our ability to expand or enhance products and services, respond to competitive pressures or pursue future business opportunities requiring substantial investments of additional capital. if we are unable to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights our competitive position may be harmed. we rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark, trade secret, confidentiality, non-compete and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property rights. despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized third parties may obtain and use technology or other information that we regard as proprietary. our intellectual property rights may not survive a legal challenge to their validity or provide significant protection for us. the laws of certain countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. accordingly, we may not be able to protect our intellectual property against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. our employees are subject to non-compete agreements. when the non-competition period expires, former employees may compete against us. if a former employee chooses to compete against us prior to the expiration of the non-competition period, there is no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to enforce the non-compete provision. we have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions and strategic investments, which could involve substantial risks. we have made and may continue to make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses that offer complementary products and services, including our acquisition of meta that we completed on april 1, 2005. the risks involved in each acquisition or investment include the possibility of paying more than the value we derive from the acquisition, dilution of the interests of our current stockholders or decreased working capital, increased indebtedness, the assumption of undisclosed liabilities and unknown and unforeseen risks, the ability to retain key personnel of the acquired company, the time to train the sales force to market and sell the products of the acquired business, the potential disruption of our ongoing business and the distraction of management from our business. the realization of any of these risks could adversely affect our business. we face risks related to litigation. we are, and may in the future be, subject to a variety of legal actions, such as employment, breach of contract, intellectual property-related, and business torts, including claims of unfair trade practices and misappropriation of trade secrets. given the nature of our business, we are also subject to defamation (including libel and slander), negligence, or other claims relating to the information we publish. regardless of the merits, responding to any such claim could be time consuming, result in costly litigation and require us to enter into settlements, royalty and licensing agreements which may not be offered or available on reasonable terms. if a successful claim is made against us and we fail to settle the claim on reasonable terms, our business, results of operations or financial position could be materially adversely affected. risks related to our common stock our operating results may fluctuate from period to period and may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate in the future as a result of many factors, including the timing of the execution of research contracts, which typically occurs in the fourth calendar quarter, the extent of completion of consulting engagements, the timing of symposia and other events, which also occur to a greater extent in the fourth calendar quarter, the amount of new business generated, the mix of domestic and international business, changes in market demand for our products and services, the timing of the development, introduction and marketing of new products and services, and competition in the industry. an inability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flow, and achieve our forecasts, may impact our operating and other activities. the potential fluctuations in our operating results could cause period-to-period comparisons of operating results not to be meaningful and may provide an unreliable indication of future operating results. furthermore, our operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in the future. if this occurs, the price of our stock would likely decline. interests of certain of our significant stockholders may conflict with yours. valueact capital master fund l.p. and affiliates ( valueact ) owned approximately 19.9% of our common stock as of december 31, 2006, while silver lake partners, l.p. and affiliates ( silver lake ) owned approximately 12.7% on the same date. while neither silver lake nor valueact individually holds a majority of our outstanding shares, they may be able, either individually or together, to exercise significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers, consolidations and sales of our assets. their interests may differ from the interests of other stockholders. additionally, representatives of silver lake and valueact in the aggregate presently hold three seats on our board of directors. 8 table of contents our stock price may be volatile, and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid. the trading prices of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to, among other factors, variations in operating results, developments in the industries in which we do business, general economic conditions, changes in securities analysts recommendations regarding our securities and our performance relative to securities analysts expectations for any quarterly period. such volatility may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our stock price. sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock in the public market by our current stockholders, or the threat that substantial sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease significantly or make it difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling stock. furthermore, we have various equity incentive plans that provide for awards in the form of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other stock based awards. as of december 31, 2006, the aggregate number of shares of our common stock issuable pursuant to outstanding grants awarded under these plans was approximately 23.9 million shares (approximately 9.1 million of which have vested). in addition, approximately 10.5 million shares may be issued in connection with future awards under our equity incentive plans. shares of common stock issued under these plans are freely transferable without further registration under the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act ), except for any shares held by an affiliate (as that term is defined in rule 144 under the securities act). we cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. our anti-takeover protections may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and delaware law may make it difficult for any party to acquire control of us in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. these provisions include: the ability of our board of directors to issue and determine the terms of preferred stock; advance notice requirements for inclusion of stockholder proposals at stockholder meetings; a preferred shares rights agreement; and the anti-takeover provisions of delaware law. these provisions could discourage or prevent a change of control or change in management that might provide stockholders with a premium to the market price of their common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 26 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate risk on january 31, 2007, the company refinanced its existing borrowing arrangements by entering into a new credit agreement (the 2007 credit agreement ) with several lenders. the 2007 credit agreement provides for a five-year, $180.0 million term loan and a $300.0 million revolving credit facility. the term loan will be repaid in 18 consecutive quarterly installments commencing september 30, 2007, plus a final payment due on january 31, 2012, and may be prepaid at any time without penalty or premium at the option of gartner. the revolving loans may be borrowed, repaid and reborrowed until january 31, 2012, at which time all amounts borrowed must be repaid. loans under the 2007 credit agreement bear interest at a rate equal to, at gartner option, either (i) the greatest of the administrative agent prime rate, the administrative agent rate for three-month certificates of deposit (adjusted for statutory reserves) plus 1% and the average rate on overnight federal funds plus 1/2 of 1%, plus a margin equal to between 0.00% and 0.25% depending on gartner leverage ratio as of the end of the four consecutive fiscal quarters most recently ended, or (ii) at the eurodollar rate (adjusted for statutory reserves) plus a margin equal to between .625% and 1.25%, depending on gartner leverage ratio as of the end of the four consecutive fiscal quarters most recently ended. as of mid-february 2007, we had $180.0 million outstanding under the term loan and $190.0 million under the revolver at an annualized interest rate of 6.3%. assuming the revolver was fully utilized, a 25 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would increase annual pre-tax interest expense by approximately $1.2 million. investment risk as of december 31, 2006, we had an investment in an equity security totaling $0.3 million. if there were a 100% adverse change in the value of this equity investment, this would result in a non-cash impairment charge of approximately $0.3 million. foreign currency exchange risk we face two risks related to foreign currency exchange: translation risk and transaction risk. amounts invested in our foreign operations are translated into u.s. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date. the resulting translation adjustments are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the stockholders equity section of the consolidated balance sheets. our foreign subsidiaries generally collect revenues and pay expenses in currencies other than the united states dollar. since the functional currencies of our foreign operations are generally denominated in the local currency of our subsidiaries, the foreign currency translation adjustments are reflected as a component of stockholders equity and do not impact operating results. revenues and expenses in foreign currencies translate into higher or lower revenues and expenses in u.s. dollars as the u.s. dollar weakens or strengthens against other currencies. therefore, changes in exchange rates may negatively affect our consolidated revenues and expenses (as expressed in u.s. dollars) from foreign operations. we are exposed to foreign currency transaction risk since we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts offset the effects of adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. these instruments are typically short term and are reflected at fair value with unrealized and realized gains and losses recorded in earnings. at december 31, 2006, we had 15 foreign currency forward contracts outstanding with a total notional amount of $64.0 million with an immaterial net unrealized loss. all of these contracts matured in january 2007. currency transaction gains or losses arising from transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are included within other income (expense), net within the consolidated statements of operations. currency transaction gains (losses), net were $(0.5) million, $(2.8) million, and $(3.1) million during 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.risk factors 6 risk factors factors that may affect future performance. we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. in addition, we and our clients are affected by the economy. the following section discusses many, but not all, of these risks and uncertainties. risks related to our business our operating results could be negatively impacted if the it industry experiences an economic down cycle. our revenues and results of operations are influenced by economic conditions in general and more particularly by business conditions in the it industry. a general economic downturn or recession, anywhere in the world, could negatively affect demand for our products and services and may substantially reduce existing and potential client information technology-related budgets. such a downturn could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, including the ability to maintain client retention, wallet retention and consulting utilization rates, and achieve contract value and consulting backlog growth. we face significant competition and our failure to compete successfully could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we face direct competition from a significant number of independent providers of information products and services, including information that can be found on the internet free of charge. we also compete indirectly against consulting firms and other information providers, including electronic and print media companies, some of which may have greater financial, information gathering and marketing resources than we do. these indirect competitors could also choose to compete directly with us in the future. in addition, limited barriers to entry exist in the markets in which we do business. as a result, additional new competitors may emerge and existing competitors may start to provide additional or complementary services. additionally, technological advances may provide increased competition from a variety of sources. however, we believe the breadth and depth of our research assets position us well versus our competition. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete against current and future competitors and our failure to do so could result in loss of market share, diminished value in our products and services, reduced pricing and increased marketing expenditures. furthermore, we may not be successful if we cannot compete effectively on quality of research and analysis, timely delivery of information, customer service, and the ability to offer products to meet changing market needs for information and analysis, or price. we may not be able to maintain our existing products and services. we operate in a rapidly evolving market, and our success depends upon our ability to deliver high quality and timely research and analysis to our clients. any failure to continue to provide credible and reliable information that is useful to our clients could have a material adverse effect on future business and operating results. further, if our predictions prove to be wrong or are not substantiated by appropriate research, our reputation may suffer and demand for our products and services may decline. in addition, we must continue to improve our methods for delivering our products and services in a cost-effective manner. failure to increase and improve our electronic delivery capabilities could adversely affect our future business and operating results. we may not be able to introduce the new products and services that we need to remain competitive. the market for our products and services is characterized by rapidly changing needs for information and analysis. to maintain our competitive position, we must continue to enhance and approve our products and services, develop or acquire new products and services in a timely manner, and appropriately position and price new products and services relative to the marketplace and our costs of producing them. any failure to achieve successful client acceptance of new products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. we depend on renewals of subscription-based services and sales of new subscription-based services for a significant portion of our revenue, and our failure to renew at historical rates or generate new sales of such services could lead to a decrease in our revenues. a large portion of our success depends on our ability to generate renewals of our subscription-based research products and services and new sales of such products and services, both to new clients and existing clients. these products and services constituted 57% and 54% of our revenues for 2007 and 2006, respectively. if we are not able to renew at historical rates, and do not generate new sales in an amount sufficient to account for the shortfall arising from a decrease in renewals, our revenues will be negatively affected. our research subscription agreements have terms that generally range from twelve to thirty months. our ability to maintain contract renewals is subject to numerous factors, including the following: delivering high-quality and timely analysis and advice to our clients; 6 table of contents understanding and anticipating market trends and the changing needs of our clients; and delivering products and services of the quality and timeliness necessary to withstand competition. additionally, as we implement our strategy to realign our business to client needs, we may shift the type and pricing of our products which may impact client renewal rates. while research client retention rates were 82% and 81% at both december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, there can be no guarantee that we will continue to maintain this rate of client renewals. generating new sales of our subscription-based products and services, both to new and existing clients, is often a time consuming process. if we are unable to generate new sales, due to competition or other factors, our revenues will be adversely affected. we depend on non-recurring consulting engagements and our failure to secure new engagements could lead to a decrease in our revenues. consulting segment revenues constituted 27% and 29% of our revenues for 2007 and 2006, respectively. these consulting engagements typically are project-based and non-recurring. our ability to replace consulting engagements is subject to numerous factors, including the following: delivering consistent, high-quality consulting services to our clients; tailoring our consulting services to the changing needs of our clients; and our ability to match the skills and competencies of our consulting staff to the skills required for the fulfillment of existing or potential consulting engagements. any material decline in our ability to replace consulting arrangements could have an adverse impact on our revenues and our financial condition. the profitability and success of our conferences, symposia and events could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain desirable dates and locations. the market for desirable dates and locations for conferences, symposia and events is highly competitive. if we cannot secure desirable dates and locations for our conferences, symposia and events their profitability could suffer, and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. in addition, because our events are scheduled in advance and held at specific locations, the success of these events can be affected by circumstances outside of our control, such as labor strikes, transportation shutdowns, economic slowdowns, terrorist attacks, natural disasters and other world events impacting the global economy, the occurrence of any of which could negatively impact the success of the event. our sales to governments are subject to appropriations and may be terminated. we derive revenues from contracts with the u.s. government, state and local governments, and their respective agencies, and foreign governments and their agencies. at december 31, 2007, approximately $190.0 million of our research contract value and consulting backlog was attributable to governments. our u.s. government contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations by the u.s. congress to fund the agencies contracting for our services, and our contracts at the state and local levels are subject to various government funding authorizations and mechanisms. in general, most if not all of these contracts may be terminated at any time without cause ( termination for convenience ). should appropriations for the governments and agencies that contract with us be curtailed, or should government contracts be terminated for convenience, we may experience a significant loss of revenue. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel which could jeopardize the quality of our products and services. our success depends heavily upon the quality of our senior management, research analysts, consultants, sales and other key personnel. we face competition for the limited pool of these qualified professionals from, among others, technology companies, market research firms, consulting firms, financial services companies and electronic and print media companies, some of which have a greater ability to attract and compensate these professionals. some of the personnel that we attempt to hire are subject to non-compete agreements that could impede our short-term recruitment efforts. any failure to retain key personnel or hire and train additional qualified personnel as required to support the evolving needs of clients or growth in our business, could adversely affect the quality of our products and services, as well as future business and operating results. we may not be able to maintain the equity in our brand name. we believe that our gartner brand, including our independence, is critical to our efforts to attract and retain clients and that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition increases. we may expand our marketing activities to promote and strengthen the gartner brand and may need to increase our marketing budget, hire additional marketing and public relations personnel, expend additional sums to protect the brand and otherwise increase expenditures to create and maintain client brand loyalty. if we fail to effectively 7 table of contents promote and maintain the gartner brand, or incur excessive expenses in doing so, our future business and operating results could be adversely impacted. our international operations expose us to a variety of operational risks which could negatively impact our future revenue and growth. our operating results are subject to the risks inherent in international business activities, including general political and economic conditions in each country, changes in market demand as a result of tariffs and other trade barriers, challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations, changes in regulatory requirements, compliance with numerous foreign laws and regulations, differences between u.s. and foreign tax rates, and the difficulty of enforcing client agreements, collecting accounts receivable and protecting intellectual property rights in international jurisdictions. furthermore, we rely on local distributors or sales agents in some international locations. if any of these arrangements are terminated by our agent or us, we may not be able to replace the arrangement on beneficial terms or on a timely basis, or clients of the local distributor or sales agent may not want to continue to do business with us or our new agent. our international operations expose us to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. approximately 45% of our revenues for 2007 and 2006 were derived from sales outside of the u.s. revenues earned outside the u.s. are transacted in local currencies, which generally fluctuate against the dollar. while we may use forward exchange contracts to a limited extent to seek to mitigate foreign currency risk, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. the costs of servicing our outstanding debt obligations could impair our future operating results. we have a $180.0 million term loan as well as a $300.0 million revolving credit facility. the revolving credit facility may be increased up to an additional $100.0 million at our lenders discretion (the expansion feature ), for a total revolving credit facility of $400.0 million. however, the $100.0 million expansion feature may or may not be available to us depending upon prevailing credit market conditions. at december 31, 2007, $394.0 million was outstanding on this facility. the affirmative, negative and financial covenants of the credit facility could limit our future financial flexibility. the associated debt service costs of this facility could impair our future operating results. the outstanding debt may limit the amount of cash or additional credit available to us, which could restrain our ability to expand or enhance products and services, respond to competitive pressures or pursue future business opportunities requiring substantial investments of additional capital. we may require additional cash resources which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. we believe that our existing cash balances, cash flow from operations, and the borrowing capacity we have under our five-year revolving credit facility will be sufficient for our expected short-term and foreseeable long-term needs. we may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions, implementation of our strategy and stock repurchase program, or to pursue future business opportunities requiring substantial investments of additional capital. if our existing financial resources are insufficient to satisfy our requirements, we may seek additional borrowings. prevailing credit market conditions may negatively affect debt availability and cost, and, as a result, financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. in addition, the incurrence of additional indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could require us to agree to operating and financial covenants that would restrict our operations. if we are unable to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights our competitive position may be harmed. we rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark, trade secret, confidentiality, non-compete and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property rights. despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized third parties may obtain and use technology or other information that we regard as proprietary. our intellectual property rights may not survive a legal challenge to their validity or provide significant protection for us. the laws of certain countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. accordingly, we may not be able to protect our intellectual property against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. our employees are subject to non-compete agreements. when the non-competition period expires, former employees may compete against us. if a former employee chooses to compete against us prior to the expiration of the non-competition period, we seek to enforce these non-compete provisions but there is no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts. we have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions and strategic investments, which could involve substantial risks. we have made and may continue to make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses that offer complementary products and services, including our acquisition of meta that we completed on april 1, 2005. the risks involved in each acquisition or investment include the possibility of paying more than the value we derive from the acquisition, dilution of the interests of our current stockholders or decreased working capital, increased indebtedness, the assumption of undisclosed liabilities and unknown and unforeseen risks, the ability to retain key personnel of the acquired company, the time to train the sales force to market and sell the products of the acquired business, 8 table of contents the potential disruption of our ongoing business and the distraction of management from our business. the realization of any of these risks could adversely affect our business. we face risks related to litigation. we are, and may in the future be, subject to a variety of legal actions, such as employment, breach of contract, intellectual property-related, and business torts, including claims of unfair trade practices and misappropriation of trade secrets. given the nature of our business, we are also subject to defamation (including libel and slander), negligence, or other claims relating to the information we publish. regardless of the merits, responding to any such claim could be time consuming, result in costly litigation and require us to enter into settlements, royalty and licensing agreements which may not be offered or available on reasonable terms. if a successful claim is made against us and we fail to settle the claim on reasonable terms, our business, results of operations or financial position could be materially adversely affected. we face risks related to taxation. we operate in numerous domestic and foreign taxing jurisdictions and our level of operations and profitability in each jurisdiction may have an impact upon the amount of income taxes that we provide in any given year. in addition, our tax filings for various tax years are subject to audit by the tax authorities in jurisdictions where we conduct business. these audits may result in assessments of additional taxes, and resolution of these matters involves uncertainties and there are no assurances that the ultimate resolution will not exceed the amounts provided. risks related to our common stock our operating results may fluctuate from period to period and may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors or guidance we have given, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate in the future as a result of many factors, including the timing of the execution of research contracts, which typically occurs in the fourth calendar quarter, the extent of completion of consulting engagements, the timing of symposia and other events, which also occur to a greater extent in the fourth calendar quarter, the amount of new business generated, the mix of domestic and international business, changes in market demand for our products and services, the timing of the development, introduction and marketing of new products and services, and competition in the industry. an inability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flow, and achieve our forecasts, may impact our operating and other activities. the potential fluctuations in our operating results could cause period-to-period comparisons of operating results not to be meaningful and may provide an unreliable indication of future operating results. furthermore, our operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in the future or guidance we have given. if this occurs, the price of our stock would likely decline. interests of certain of our significant stockholders may conflict with yours. valueact capital and affiliates ( valueact ) owned approximately 21.0% of our common stock as of december 31, 2007, while silver lake partners and affiliates ( silver lake ) owned approximately 13.4% on the same date. while neither silver lake nor valueact individually holds a majority of our outstanding shares, they may be able, either individually or together, to exercise significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers, consolidations and sales of our assets. their interests may differ from the interests of other stockholders. additionally, representatives of silver lake and valueact in the aggregate presently hold three seats on our board of directors. our stock price may be volatile, and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid. the trading prices of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to, among other factors, variations in operating results, developments in the industries in which we do business, general economic conditions, general market conditions, changes in the composition of our stockholder base, changes in securities analysts recommendations regarding our securities and our performance relative to securities analysts expectations for any quarterly period. such volatility may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our stock price. sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock in the public market by our current stockholders, or the threat that substantial sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease significantly or make it difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling stock. furthermore, we have various equity incentive plans that provide for awards in the form of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other stock-based awards. as of december 31, 2007, the aggregate number of shares of our common stock issuable pursuant to outstanding grants awarded under these plans was approximately 20.9 million shares (approximately 8.8 million of which have vested). in addition, approximately 7.1 million shares may be issued in connection with future awards under our equity incentive plans. shares of common stock issued under these plans are freely transferable without further registration under the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act ), except for any shares held by affiliates (as that term is defined in rule 144 under the securities act). we cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. 9 table of contents our anti-takeover protections may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and delaware law may make it difficult for any party to acquire control of us in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. these provisions include: the ability of our board of directors to issue and determine the terms of preferred stock; advance notice requirements for inclusion of stockholder proposals at stockholder meetings; a preferred shares rights agreement; and the anti-takeover provisions of delaware law. these provisions could discourage or prevent a change of control or change in management that might provide stockholders with a premium to the market price of their common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 23 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate risk as of december 31, 2007, we have exposure to changes in interest rates resulting from $174.0 million outstanding on our term loan and $220.0 million outstanding on our revolver, both of which are floating rate. borrowings may be either prime-based or libor-based. interest rates under these borrowings include a base rate plus a margin between 0.00% and 0.25% on prime borrowings and between .625% and 1.25% on libor borrowings. as of december 31, 2007, the annualized interest rates on the term loan and revolver were 5.71% and 5.77%, respectively, which consist of a three-month libor base rate and one-month libor base rate, respectively, plus a margin of 0.875% on each. we have an interest rate swap contract which effectively converts the base floating interest rate on the term loan to a fixed rate. accordingly, the base interest rate on the term loan is effectively capped at 5.06%. however, we are still exposed to interest rate risk on the revolver. a 25 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would change pre-tax annual interest expense on the $300.0 million revolver by approximately $0.7 million when fully utilized. investment risk none 23 table of contents foreign currency exchange risk we face two risks related to foreign currency exchange: translation risk and transaction risk. amounts invested in our foreign operations are translated into u.s. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date. the resulting translation adjustments are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the stockholders equity section of the consolidated balance sheets. our foreign subsidiaries generally collect revenues and pay expenses in currencies other than the united states dollar. since the functional currencies of our foreign operations are generally denominated in the local currency of our subsidiaries, the foreign currency translation adjustments are reflected as a component of stockholders equity and do not impact operating results. revenues and expenses in foreign currencies translate into higher or lower revenues and expenses in u.s. dollars as the u.s. dollar weakens or strengthens against other currencies. therefore, changes in exchange rates may negatively affect our consolidated revenues and expenses (as expressed in u.s. dollars) from foreign operations. we are exposed to foreign currency transaction risk since we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts offset the effects of adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. these instruments are typically short term and are reflected at fair value with unrealized and realized gains and losses recorded in earnings. at december 31, 2007, we had 35 foreign currency forward contracts outstanding with a total notional amount of $226.0 million with an immaterial net unrealized loss. all of these contracts matured in january 2008. currency transaction gains or losses arising from transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are included within other income (expense), net within the consolidated statements of operations. currency transaction gains (losses), net were $1.1 million, $(0.5) million, and $(2.8) million during 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.risk factors 7 risk factors factors that may affect future performance. we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. in addition, we and our clients are affected by global economic conditions. the following section discusses many, but not all, of these risks and uncertainties, but is not intended to be all-inclusive. risks related to our business our operating results could be negatively impacted by the current global credit crisis and the economic downturn. our business is impacted by general economic conditions, both domestic and abroad. the current global credit crisis and economic downturn may negatively and materially affect demand for our products and services. this downturn could materially and adversely affect our business, including the ability to maintain client retention, wallet retention and consulting utilization rates, achieve contract value and consulting backlog growth, and attract attendees and exhibitors to our events. such developments could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we face significant competition and our failure to compete successfully could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we face direct competition from a significant number of independent providers of information products and services, including information available on the internet free of charge. we also compete indirectly against consulting firms and other information providers, including electronic and print media companies, some of which may have greater financial, information gathering and marketing resources than we do. these indirect competitors could also choose to compete directly with us in the future. in addition, limited barriers to entry exist in the markets in which we do business. as a result, additional new competitors may emerge and existing competitors may start to provide additional or complementary services. additionally, technological advances may provide increased competition from a variety of sources. while we believe the breadth and depth of our research assets position us well versus our competition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete against current and future competitors and our failure to do so could result in loss of market share, diminished value in our products and services, reduced pricing and increased marketing expenditures. furthermore, we may not be successful if we cannot compete effectively on quality of research and analysis, timely delivery of information, customer service, and the ability to offer products to meet changing market needs for information and analysis, or price. we may not be able to maintain our existing products and services. we operate in a rapidly evolving market, and our success depends upon our ability to deliver high quality and timely research and analysis to our clients. any failure to continue to provide credible and reliable information that is useful to our clients could have a material adverse effect on future business and operating results. further, if our predictions prove to be wrong or are not substantiated by appropriate research, our reputation may suffer and demand for our products and services may decline. in addition, we must continue to improve our methods for delivering our products and services in a cost-effective manner. failure to increase and improve our electronic delivery capabilities could adversely affect our future business and operating results. we may not be able to enhance and develop our existing products and services, or introduce the new products and services, that are needed to remain competitive. the market for our products and services is characterized by rapidly changing needs for information and analysis on the it industry as a whole. the development of new products is a complex and time-consuming process. nonetheless, to maintain our competitive position, we must continue to enhance and improve our products and services, develop or acquire new products and services, deliver all products and services in a timely manner, and appropriately position and price new products and services relative to the marketplace and our costs of producing them. any failure to achieve successful client acceptance of new products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. additionally, significant delays in new product or services releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. 7 table of contents we depend on renewals of subscription-based services and sales of new subscription-based services for a significant portion of our revenue, and our failure to renew at historical rates or generate new sales of such services could lead to a decrease in our revenues. a large portion of our success depends on our ability to generate renewals of our subscription-based research products and services and new sales of such products and services, both to new clients and existing clients. these products and services constituted 60% and 58% of our revenues for 2008 and 2007, respectively. generating new sales of our subscription-based products and services, both to new and existing clients, is often a time consuming process. if we are unable to generate new sales, due to competition or other factors, our revenues will be adversely affected. our research subscription agreements have terms that generally range from twelve to thirty months. our ability to maintain contract renewals is subject to numerous factors, including the following: delivering high-quality and timely analysis and advice to our clients; understanding and anticipating market trends and the changing needs of our clients; and delivering products and services of the quality and timeliness necessary to withstand competition. additionally, as we implement our strategy to realign our business to client needs, we may shift the type and pricing of our products which may impact client renewal rates. while research client retention rates were 82% at both december 31, 2008 and 2007, there can be no guarantee that we will continue to maintain this rate of client renewals. we depend on non-recurring consulting engagements and our failure to secure new engagements could lead to a decrease in our revenues. consulting segment revenues constituted 27% of our total revenues for 2008 and 28% for 2007. these consulting engagements typically are project-based and non-recurring. our ability to replace consulting engagements is subject to numerous factors, including the following: delivering consistent, high-quality consulting services to our clients; tailoring our consulting services to the changing needs of our clients; and our ability to match the skills and competencies of our consulting staff to the skills required for the fulfillment of existing or potential consulting engagements. any material decline in our ability to replace consulting arrangements could have an adverse impact on our revenues and our financial condition. the profitability and success of our conferences, symposia and events could be adversely affected by external factors beyond our control. the market for desirable dates and locations for conferences, symposia and events is highly competitive. if we cannot secure desirable dates and locations for our conferences, symposia and events their profitability could suffer, and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. in addition, because our events are scheduled in advance and held at specific locations, the success of these events can be affected by circumstances outside of our control, such as labor strikes, transportation shutdowns and travel restrictions, economic slowdowns, terrorist attacks, weather, natural disasters and other world events impacting the global economy, the occurrence of any of which could negatively impact the success of the event. our sales to governments are subject to appropriations and may be terminated. we derive revenues from contracts with the u.s. government, state and local governments, and their respective agencies, as well as foreign governments and their agencies. at december 31, 2008 and 2007, $192.0 million and $190.0 million, respectively, of our research contract value and consulting backlog was attributable to governments. our u.s. government contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations by the u.s. congress to fund the agencies contracting for our services, and our contracts at the state and local levels are subject to various government authorizations and funding mechanisms. in general, most if not all of these contracts 8 table of contents may be terminated at any time without cause ( termination for convenience ). should appropriations for the governments and agencies that contract with us be curtailed, or should government contracts be terminated for convenience, we may experience a significant loss of revenue. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel which could jeopardize the quality of our products and services. our success depends heavily upon the quality of our senior management, research analysts, consultants, sales and other key personnel. we face competition for the limited pool of these qualified professionals from, among others, technology companies, market research firms, consulting firms, financial services companies and electronic and print media companies, some of which have a greater ability to attract and compensate these professionals. some of the personnel that we attempt to hire are subject to non-compete agreements that could impede our short-term recruitment efforts. any failure to retain key personnel or hire and train additional qualified personnel as required to support the evolving needs of clients or growth in our business, could adversely affect the quality of our products and services, as well as future business and operating results. we may not be able to maintain the equity in our brand name. we believe that our gartner brand, including our independence, is critical to our efforts to attract and retain clients and that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition increases. we may expand our marketing activities to promote and strengthen the gartner brand and may need to increase our marketing budget, hire additional marketing and public relations personnel, expend additional sums to protect the brand and otherwise increase expenditures to create and maintain client brand loyalty. if we fail to effectively promote and maintain the gartner brand, or incur excessive expenses in doing so, our future business and operating results could be adversely impacted. our international operations expose us to a variety of operational risks which could negatively impact our future revenue and growth. we have clients in over 80 countries and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. our operating results are subject to the risks inherent in international business activities, including general political and economic conditions in each country, changes in market demand as a result of tariffs and other trade barriers, challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations, changes in regulatory requirements, compliance with numerous foreign laws and regulations, differences between u.s. and foreign tax rates and laws, and the difficulty of enforcing client agreements, collecting accounts receivable and protecting intellectual property rights in international jurisdictions. furthermore, we rely on local distributors or sales agents in some international locations. if any of these arrangements are terminated by our agent or us, we may not be able to replace the arrangement on beneficial terms or on a timely basis, or clients of the local distributor or sales agent may not want to continue to do business with us or our new agent. our international operations expose us to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. approximately 47% and 45% of our revenues for 2008 and 2007, respectively, were derived from sales outside of the u.s. revenues earned outside the u.s. are typically transacted in local currencies, which may fluctuate significantly against the dollar. while we may use forward exchange contracts to a limited extent to seek to mitigate foreign currency risk, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. catastrophic events or geo-political conditions may disrupt our business. a disruption or failure of our systems or operations in the event of a major weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other mission-critical functions. our corporate headquarters is located approximately 30 miles from new york city, and we have an operations center located in ft. myers, florida, in a hurricane-prone area. we also operate in numerous international locations. a catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology systems could harm our ability to conduct normal business operations and negatively impact our operating results. abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose a risk of general economic disruption in affected countries, which may increase our operating costs. additionally, these conditions also may add uncertainty to the timing and budget decisions of our clients. 9 table of contents we may experience outages and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure. our increasing user traffic and complexity of our products and services demand more computing power. we have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to maintain data centers and equipment and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle increased traffic on our websites. however, any inefficiencies or operational failures could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience, resulting in damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, harming our operating results and financial condition. our outstanding debt obligations could impact our financial condition or future operating results. at december 31, 2008, we had $416.3 million outstanding under our credit agreement, which provides for two amortizing term loans with quarterly payments and a $300.0 million revolving credit facility. the revolving credit facility may be increased up to an additional $100.0 million at our lenders discretion (the expansion feature ), for a total revolving credit facility of $400.0 million. however, the $100.0 million expansion feature may or may not be available to us depending upon prevailing credit market conditions. the affirmative, negative and financial covenants of the credit agreement could limit our future financial flexibility. additionally, a failure to comply with these covenants could result in acceleration of all amounts outstanding under the credit agreement, which would materially impact our financial condition unless accommodations could be negotiated with our lenders. no assurance can be given that we would be successful in doing so in this current financial climate, or that any accommodations that we were able to negotiate would be on terms as favorable as those presently contained in the credit agreement. the associated debt service costs of the borrowing arrangement under our credit agreement could impair our future operating results. the outstanding debt may limit the amount of cash or additional credit available to us, which could restrain our ability to expand or enhance products and services, respond to competitive pressures or pursue future business opportunities requiring substantial investments of additional capital. we may require additional cash resources which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. we believe that our existing cash balances, projected cash flow from operations, and the remaining borrowing capacity we have under our five-year revolving credit facility will be sufficient for our expected short-term and foreseeable long-term operating needs. we may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions, implementation of our strategy and stock repurchase program, to repay indebtedness or to pursue future business opportunities requiring substantial investments of additional capital. if our existing financial resources are insufficient to satisfy our requirements, we may seek additional borrowings. prevailing credit market conditions may negatively affect debt availability and cost, and, as a result, financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. in addition, the incurrence of additional indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could require us to agree to operating and financial covenants that would further restrict our operations. if we are unable to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights our competitive position may be harmed. we rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, confidentiality, non-compete and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property rights. despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized third parties may obtain and use technology or other information that we regard as proprietary. our intellectual property rights may not survive a legal challenge to their validity or provide significant protection for us. the laws of certain countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. accordingly, we may not be able to protect our intellectual property against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. our employees are subject to non-compete agreements. when the non-competition period expires, former employees may compete against us. if a former employee chooses to compete against us prior to the expiration of the non-competition period, we seek to enforce these non-compete provisions but there is no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts. we have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions and strategic investments, which could involve substantial risks. we have made and may continue to make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses that offer complementary products and services. the risks involved in each acquisition or investment include the possibility of paying more than the value we derive from the acquisition, dilution of the interests of our current stockholders or decreased working capital, increased indebtedness, the assumption of undisclosed liabilities and unknown and unforeseen risks, the ability to retain key personnel of the acquired company, the time to train the sales force to market and sell the products of the acquired business, the potential disruption of our ongoing business and the distraction of management from our business. the realization of any of these risks could adversely affect our business. 10 table of contents we face risks related to litigation. we are, and may in the future be, subject to a variety of legal actions, such as employment, breach of contract, intellectual property-related, and business torts, including claims of unfair trade practices and misappropriation of trade secrets. given the nature of our business, we are also subject to defamation (including libel and slander), negligence, or other claims relating to the information we publish. regardless of the merits, responding to any such claim could be time consuming, result in costly litigation and require us to enter into settlements, royalty and licensing agreements which may not be offered or available on reasonable terms. if a successful claim is made against us and we fail to settle the claim on reasonable terms, our business, results of operations or financial position could be materially adversely affected. we face risks related to taxation. we operate in numerous domestic and foreign taxing jurisdictions and our level of operations and profitability in each jurisdiction may have an impact upon the amount of income taxes that we recognize in any given year. in addition, our tax filings for various tax years are subject to audit by the tax authorities in jurisdictions where we conduct business, and in the ordinary course of business, we may be under audit by one or more tax authorities from time to time. recently, we have been notified by the internal revenue service that it intends to audit our 2007 tax return, and this audit is expected to commence shortly. these audits may result in assessments of additional taxes, and resolution of these matters involves uncertainties and there are no assurances that the ultimate resolution will not exceed the amounts we have recorded. additionally, the results of an audit could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. risks related to our common stock our operating results may fluctuate from period to period and may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors or guidance we have given, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate in the future as a result of many factors, including the timing of the execution of research contracts, the extent of completion of consulting engagements, the timing of symposia and other events, the amount of new business generated, the mix of domestic and international business, currency fluctuations, changes in market demand for our products and services, the timing of the development, introduction and marketing of new products and services, and competition in the industry. an inability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flow, and achieve our forecasts, may impact our operating and other activities. the potential fluctuations in our operating results could cause period-to-period comparisons of operating results not to be meaningful and may provide an unreliable indication of future operating results. furthermore, our operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in the future or guidance we have given. if this occurs, the price of our stock would likely decline. our stock price may be volatile, and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid. the trading prices of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to, among other factors, variations in operating results, developments in the industries in which we do business, general economic conditions, general market conditions, changes in the nature and composition of our stockholder base, changes in securities analysts recommendations regarding our securities and our performance relative to securities analysts expectations for any quarterly period. such volatility may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our stock price. sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock in the public market by our current stockholders, or the threat that substantial sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease significantly or make it difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling stock. furthermore, we have various equity incentive plans that provide for awards in the form of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other stock-based awards. as of december 31, 2008, the aggregate number of shares of our common stock issuable pursuant to outstanding grants and awards under these plans was approximately 11.1 million shares (approximately 6.7 million of which have vested). in addition, approximately 5.8 million shares may be issued in connection with future awards under our equity incentive plans. shares of common stock issued under these plans are freely transferable without further registration under the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act ), except for any shares held by affiliates (as that term is defined in rule 144 under the securities act). we cannot predict the size of future issuances of 11 table of contents our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. interests of certain of our significant stockholders may conflict with yours. valueact capital and affiliates ( valueact ) owned approximately 22.1% of our common stock as of december 31, 2008, while silver lake partners and affiliates ( silver lake ) owned approximately 12.8% on the same date. to our knowledge, three other institutional investors each presently hold over 5% of our common stock. additionally, representatives of silver lake and valueact in the aggregate presently hold three seats on our board of directors. while no stockholder or institutional investor individually holds a majority of our outstanding shares, these significant stockholders may be able, either individually or acting together, to exercise significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation, adoption or amendment of equity plans and approval of significant transactions such as mergers, acquisitions, consolidations and sales or purchases of assets. in addition, in the event of a proposed acquisition of the company by a third party, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change of control in the company. accordingly, the interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, or otherwise be in the best interests of the company or all stockholders. our anti-takeover protections may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and delaware law may make it difficult for any party to acquire control of us in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. these provisions include: the ability of our board of directors to issue and determine the terms of preferred stock; advance notice requirements for inclusion of stockholder proposals at stockholder meetings; a preferred shares rights agreement; and the anti-takeover provisions of delaware law. these provisions could discourage or prevent a change of control or change in management that might provide stockholders with a premium to the market price of their common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 28 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate risk we have exposure to changes in interest rates resulting from $296.3 million outstanding on our two term loans and $120.0 million outstanding on our revolver, all of which are floating rate borrowings. our borrowings may be either prime-based or libor-based. interest rates under these borrowings include a base rate plus a margin between 0.00% and 0.75% on prime borrowings and between .625% and 1.75% on libor borrowings. as of december 31, 2008, the annualized interest rates on the original 2007 term loan, the 2008 term loan, and revolver were 2.46%, 2.96%, and 1.47%, respectively. the rates on the original and new term loans consisted of a three-month libor base rate plus margins of 1.00% and 1.50% on the original term loan and 2008 term loan, respectively. the rate on the revolver consisted of a one-month libor base rate plus a margin of 1.00%. we have two interest rate swap contracts which effectively convert the floating base rates on the term loans to fixed rates. including the effect of the interest rate swaps, the annualized interest rates on the original term loan and 2008 term loan were 6.06% and 4.42%, respectively, as of december 31, 2008. the company does not hedge the interest rate risk on the revolver. accordingly, we are still exposed to interest rate risk on the revolver. a 25 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would change pre-tax annual interest expense on the $300.0 million revolver by approximately $0.7 million when fully utilized. foreign currency exchange risk we face two risks related to foreign currency exchange: translation risk and transaction risk. amounts invested in our foreign operations are translated into u.s. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date. the resulting translation adjustments are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the stockholders equity section of the consolidated balance sheets. our foreign subsidiaries generally collect revenues and pay expenses in currencies other than the united states dollar. since the functional currencies of our foreign operations are generally denominated in the local currency of our subsidiaries, the foreign currency translation adjustments are reflected as a component of stockholders equity and do not impact operating results. revenues and expenses in foreign currencies translate into higher or lower revenues and expenses in u.s. dollars as the u.s. dollar weakens or strengthens against other currencies. therefore, changes in exchange rates may affect our consolidated revenues and expenses (as expressed in u.s. dollars) from foreign operations. we are exposed to foreign currency transaction risk since we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to offset the effects of adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. these instruments are typically short term and are reflected at fair value with unrealized and realized gains and losses recorded in earnings. at december 31, 2008, we had 15 foreign currency forward contracts outstanding with a total notional amount of $73.4 million and a net unrealized loss of $2.5 million. all of these contracts matured in january 2009. concentration of credit risk financial instruments that potentially subject the company to concentration of credit risk consist primarily of short-term, highly liquid investments classified as cash equivalents, accounts receivable, and interest rate swap contracts. the majority of the company cash equivalent investments and its two interest rate swap contracts are with investment grade commercial banks that are participants in the company credit agreement. accounts receivable balances deemed to be collectible from customers have limited concentration of credit risk due to our diverse customer base and geographic dispersion.risk factors 4 risk factors factors that may affect future performance. we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. in addition, we and our clients are affected by global economic conditions. the following section discusses many, but not all, of these risks and uncertainties, but is not intended to be all-inclusive. 4 table of contents risks related to our business our operating results could be negatively impacted by general economic conditions. our business is impacted by general economic conditions, both domestic and abroad. the global credit crisis and economic downturn that began in 2008 and continued throughout 2009 could negatively and materially affect demand for our products and services. this downturn could materially and adversely affect our business, including the ability to maintain client retention, wallet retention and consulting utilization rates, achieve contract value and consulting backlog growth, and attract attendees and exhibitors to our events. such developments could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we face significant competition and our failure to compete successfully could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we face direct competition from a significant number of independent providers of information products and services, including information available on the internet free of charge. we also compete indirectly against consulting firms and other information providers, including electronic and print media companies, some of which may have greater financial, information gathering and marketing resources than we do. these indirect competitors could also choose to compete directly with us in the future. in addition, limited barriers to entry exist in the markets in which we do business. as a result, additional new competitors may emerge and existing competitors may start to provide additional or complementary services. additionally, technological advances may provide increased competition from a variety of sources. while we believe the breadth and depth of our research assets position us well versus our competition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete against current and future competitors and our failure to do so could result in loss of market share, diminished value in our products and services, reduced pricing and increased marketing expenditures. furthermore, we may not be successful if we cannot compete effectively on quality of research and analysis, timely delivery of information, customer service, and the ability to offer products to meet changing market needs for information and analysis, or price. we may not be able to maintain our existing products and services. we operate in a rapidly evolving market, and our success depends upon our ability to deliver high quality and timely research and analysis to our clients. any failure to continue to provide credible and reliable information that is useful to our clients could have a material adverse effect on future business and operating results. further, if our predictions prove to be wrong or are not substantiated by appropriate research, our reputation may suffer and demand for our products and services may decline. in addition, we must continue to improve our methods for delivering our products and services in a cost-effective manner. failure to increase and improve our electronic delivery capabilities could adversely affect our future business and operating results. we may not be able to enhance and develop our existing products and services, or introduce the new products and services, that are needed to remain competitive. the market for our products and services is characterized by rapidly changing needs for information and analysis on the it industry as a whole. the development of new products is a complex and time-consuming process. nonetheless, to maintain our competitive position, we must continue to enhance and improve our products and services, develop or acquire new products and services, deliver all products and services in a timely manner, and appropriately position and price new products and services relative to the marketplace and our costs of producing them. any failure to achieve successful client acceptance of new products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. additionally, significant delays in new product or services releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. we depend on renewals of subscription-based services and sales of new subscription-based services for a significant portion of our revenue, and our failure to renew at historical rates or generate new sales of such services could lead to a decrease in our revenues. a large portion of our success depends on our ability to generate renewals of our subscription-based research products and services and new sales of such products and services, both to new clients and existing clients. these products and services constituted 66% and 60% of our revenues for 2009 and 2008, respectively. generating new sales of our subscription-based products and services, both to new and existing clients, is often a time consuming process. if we are unable to generate new sales, due to competition or other factors, our revenues will be adversely affected. our research subscription agreements have terms that generally range from twelve to thirty months. our ability to maintain contract renewals is subject to numerous factors, including the following: delivering high-quality and timely analysis and advice to our clients; understanding and anticipating market trends and the changing needs of our clients; and delivering products and services of the quality and timeliness necessary to withstand competition. 5 table of contents additionally, as we implement our strategy to realign our business to client needs, we may shift the type and pricing of our products which may impact client renewal rates. while research client retention rate was 78% at december 31, 2009 and 82% at december 31, 2008, there can be no guarantee that we will continue to maintain this rate of client renewals. we depend on non-recurring consulting engagements and our failure to secure new engagements could lead to a decrease in our revenues. consulting segment revenues constituted 25% of our total revenues for 2009 and 27% for 2008. these consulting engagements typically are project-based and non-recurring. our ability to replace consulting engagements is subject to numerous factors, including the following: delivering consistent, high-quality consulting services to our clients; tailoring our consulting services to the changing needs of our clients; and our ability to match the skills and competencies of our consulting staff to the skills required for the fulfillment of existing or potential consulting engagements. any material decline in our ability to replace consulting arrangements could have an adverse impact on our revenues and our financial condition. the profitability and success of our conferences, symposia and events could be adversely affected by external factors beyond our control. the global credit crisis and economic downturn that began in 2008 and continued throughout 2009 severely impacted travel budgets of all organizations, which may continue to negatively impact our business. the market for desirable dates and locations for conferences, symposia and events is highly competitive. if we cannot secure desirable dates and locations for our conferences, symposia and events their profitability could suffer, and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. in addition, because our events are scheduled in advance and held at specific locations, the success of these events can be affected by circumstances outside of our control, such as labor strikes, transportation shutdowns and travel restrictions, economic slowdowns, terrorist attacks, weather, natural disasters and other world events impacting the global economy, the occurrence of any of which could negatively impact the success of the event. our sales to governments are subject to appropriations and may be terminated. we derive revenues from contracts with the u.s. government, state and local governments, and their respective agencies, as well as foreign governments and their agencies. at december 31, 2009 and 2008, approximately $182.0 million and $192.0 million, respectively, of our research contract value and consulting backlog was attributable to governments. we believe substantially all of the amount attributable to governments at december 31, 2009 will be filled in 2010. our u.s. government contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations by the u.s. congress to fund the agencies contracting for our services, and our contracts at the state and local levels are subject to various government authorizations and funding mechanisms. in general, most if not all of these contracts may be terminated at any time without cause ( termination for convenience ). should appropriations for the governments and agencies that contract with us be curtailed, or should government contracts be terminated for convenience, we may experience a significant loss of revenue. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel which could jeopardize the quality of our products and services. our success depends heavily upon the quality of our senior management, research analysts, consultants, sales and other key personnel. we face competition for the limited pool of these qualified professionals from, among others, technology companies, market research firms, consulting firms, financial services companies and electronic and print media companies, some of which have a greater ability to attract and compensate these professionals. some of the personnel that we attempt to hire are subject to non-compete agreements that could impede our short-term recruitment efforts. any failure to retain key personnel or hire and train additional qualified personnel as required to support the evolving needs of clients or growth in our business, could adversely affect the quality of our products and services, as well as future business and operating results. we may not be able to maintain the equity in our brand name. we believe that our gartner brand, including our independence, is critical to our efforts to attract and retain clients and that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition increases. we may expand our marketing activities to promote and strengthen the gartner brand and may need to increase our marketing budget, hire additional marketing and public relations personnel, expend additional sums to protect the brand and otherwise increase expenditures to create and maintain client brand loyalty. if we fail to effectively promote and maintain the gartner brand, or incur excessive expenses in doing so, our future business and operating results could be adversely impacted. our international operations expose us to a variety of operational risks which could negatively impact our future revenue and growth. we have clients in over 80 countries and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. our operating results are subject to the risks inherent in international business activities, including general political and economic conditions in each country, changes in market demand as a result of tariffs and other trade barriers, challenges in staffing and managing foreign 6 table of contents operations, changes in regulatory requirements, compliance with numerous foreign laws and regulations, differences between u.s. and foreign tax rates and laws, and the difficulty of enforcing client agreements, collecting accounts receivable and protecting intellectual property rights in international jurisdictions. furthermore, we rely on local distributors or sales agents in some international locations. if any of these arrangements are terminated by our agent or us, we may not be able to replace the arrangement on beneficial terms or on a timely basis, or clients of the local distributor or sales agent may not want to continue to do business with us or our new agent. our international operations expose us to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. approximately 45% and 47% of our revenues for 2009 and 2008, respectively, were derived from sales outside of the u.s. revenues earned outside the u.s. are typically transacted in local currencies, which may fluctuate significantly against the dollar. while we may use forward exchange contracts to a limited extent to seek to mitigate foreign currency risk, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. catastrophic events or geo-political conditions may disrupt our business. a disruption or failure of our systems or operations in the event of a major weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other mission-critical functions. our corporate headquarters is located approximately 30 miles from new york city, and we have an operations center located in ft. myers, florida, in a hurricane-prone area. we also operate in numerous international locations. a catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology systems could harm our ability to conduct normal business operations and negatively impact our operating results. abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose a risk of general economic disruption in affected countries, which may increase our operating costs. additionally, these conditions also may add uncertainty to the timing and budget decisions of our clients. we may experience outages and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure. our increasing user traffic and complexity of our products and services demand more computing power. we have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to maintain data centers and equipment and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle increased traffic on our websites. however, any inefficiencies or operational failures could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience, resulting in damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, harming our operating results and financial condition. our outstanding debt obligations could impact our financial condition or future operating results. at december 31, 2009, we had $329.0 million outstanding under our credit agreement, which provides for two amortizing term loans with quarterly payments and a $300.0 million revolving credit facility. the revolving credit facility may be increased up to an additional $100.0 million at our lenders discretion (the expansion feature ), for a total revolving credit facility of $400.0 million. however, the $100.0 million expansion feature may or may not be available to us depending upon prevailing credit market conditions. the affirmative, negative and financial covenants of the credit agreement could limit our future financial flexibility. additionally, a failure to comply with these covenants could result in acceleration of all amounts outstanding under the credit agreement, which would materially impact our financial condition unless accommodations could be negotiated with our lenders. no assurance can be given that we would be successful in doing so in this current financial climate, or that any accommodations that we were able to negotiate would be on terms as favorable as those presently contained in the credit agreement. the associated debt service costs of the borrowing arrangement under our credit agreement could impair our future operating results. the outstanding debt may limit the amount of cash or additional credit available to us, which could restrain our ability to expand or enhance products and services, respond to competitive pressures or pursue future business opportunities requiring substantial investments of additional capital. we may require additional cash resources which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. we believe that our existing cash balances, projected cash flow from operations, and the remaining borrowing capacity we have under our revolving credit facility will be sufficient for our expected short-term and foreseeable long-term operating needs. we may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions, implementation of our strategy and stock repurchase program, to repay indebtedness or to pursue future business opportunities requiring substantial investments of additional capital. if our existing financial resources are insufficient to satisfy our requirements, we may seek additional borrowings. prevailing credit market conditions may negatively affect debt availability and cost, and, as a result, financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. in addition, the incurrence of additional indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could require us to agree to operating and financial covenants that would further restrict our operations. if we are unable to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights our competitive position may be harmed. we rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, confidentiality, non-compete and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property rights. despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized third parties may obtain and 7 table of contents use technology or other information that we regard as proprietary. our intellectual property rights may not survive a legal challenge to their validity or provide significant protection for us. the laws of certain countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. accordingly, we may not be able to protect our intellectual property against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. our employees are subject to non-compete agreements. when the non-competition period expires, former employees may compete against us. if a former employee chooses to compete against us prior to the expiration of the non-competition period, we seek to enforce these non-compete provisions but there is no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts. we have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions and strategic investments, which could involve substantial risks. we have made and may continue to make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses that offer complementary products and services. the risks involved in each acquisition or investment include the possibility of paying more than the value we derive from the acquisition, dilution of the interests of our current stockholders or decreased working capital, increased indebtedness, the assumption of undisclosed liabilities and unknown and unforeseen risks, the ability to retain key personnel of the acquired company, the time to train the sales force to market and sell the products of the acquired business, the potential disruption of our ongoing business and the distraction of management from our business. the realization of any of these risks could adversely affect our business. we face risks related to litigation. we are, and may in the future be, subject to a variety of legal actions, such as employment, breach of contract, intellectual property-related, and business torts, including claims of unfair trade practices and misappropriation of trade secrets. given the nature of our business, we are also subject to defamation (including libel and slander), negligence, or other claims relating to the information we publish. regardless of the merits, responding to any such claim could be time consuming, result in costly litigation and require us to enter into settlements, royalty and licensing agreements which may not be offered or available on reasonable terms. if a successful claim is made against us and we fail to settle the claim on reasonable terms, our business, results of operations or financial position could be materially adversely affected. we face risks related to taxation. we operate in numerous domestic and foreign taxing jurisdictions and our level of operations and profitability in each jurisdiction may have an impact upon the amount of income taxes that we recognize in any given year. in addition, our tax filings for various tax years are subject to audit by the tax authorities in jurisdictions where we conduct business, and in the ordinary course of business, we may be under audit by one or more tax authorities from time to time. these audits may result in assessments of additional taxes, and resolution of these matters involves uncertainties and there are no assurances that the ultimate resolution will not exceed the amounts we have recorded. additionally, the results of an audit could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. risks related to our common stock our operating results may fluctuate from period to period and may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors or guidance we have given, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate in the future as a result of many factors, including the timing of the execution of research contracts, the extent of completion of consulting engagements, the timing of symposia and other events, the amount of new business generated, the mix of domestic and international business, currency fluctuations, changes in market demand for our products and services, the timing of the development, introduction and marketing of new products and services, and competition in the industry. an inability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flow, and achieve our forecasts, may impact our operating and other activities. the potential fluctuations in our operating results could cause period-to-period comparisons of operating results not to be meaningful and may provide an unreliable indication of future operating results. furthermore, our operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in the future or guidance we have given. if this occurs, the price of our stock would likely decline. our stock price may be volatile, and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid. the trading prices of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to, among other factors, variations in operating results, developments in the industries in which we do business, general economic conditions, general market conditions, changes in the nature and composition of our stockholder base, changes in securities analysts recommendations regarding our securities and our performance relative to securities analysts expectations for any quarterly period. such volatility may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our stock price. sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock in the public market by our current stockholders, or the threat that substantial sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease significantly or make it difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling stock. furthermore, we have various equity incentive plans that provide for awards in the form of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other stock-based awards. as of december 31, 2009, the aggregate number of shares of our common stock issuable pursuant to outstanding grants and awards under these plans was approximately 11.5 million shares (approximately 5.8 million of which have vested). in addition, approximately 7.4 million shares may be issued in connection with future 8 table of contents awards under our equity incentive plans. shares of common stock issued under these plans are freely transferable without further registration under the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act ), except for any shares held by affiliates (as that term is defined in rule 144 under the securities act). we cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. interests of certain of our significant stockholders may conflict with yours. as of december 31, 2009, valueact capital and affiliates ( valueact ) owned approximately 21.7% of our common stock. to our knowledge, as of the date of this report, four other institutional investors each presently hold over 5% of our common stock. additionally, a representative of valueact presently holds one seat on our board of directors. while no stockholder or institutional investor individually holds a majority of our outstanding shares, these significant stockholders may be able, either individually or acting together, to exercise significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation, adoption or amendment of equity plans and approval of significant transactions such as mergers, acquisitions, consolidations and sales or purchases of assets. in addition, in the event of a proposed acquisition of the company by a third party, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change of control in the company. accordingly, the interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, or otherwise be in the best interests of the company or all stockholders. our anti-takeover protections may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and delaware law may make it difficult for any party to acquire control of us in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. these provisions include: the ability of our board of directors to issue and determine the terms of preferred stock; advance notice requirements for inclusion of stockholder proposals at stockholder meetings; and the anti-takeover provisions of delaware law. these provisions could discourage or prevent a change of control or change in management that might provide stockholders with a premium to the market price of their common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 25 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate risk we have exposure to changes in interest rates resulting from the $201.0 million outstanding on our two term loans and $128.0 million outstanding on our revolver as of december 31, 2009. all of these borrowings are floating rate, which may be either prime-based or libor-based. interest rates under these borrowings include a base rate plus a margin currently between 0.00% and 0.75% on prime borrowings and between .625% and 1.75% on libor-based borrowings. as of december 31, 2009 the annualized interest rates on the original term loan, the 2008 term loan, and the revolver were 1.0%, 1.26%, and 1.0%, respectively. the rates on the original and 2008 term loans consisted of a three-month libor base rate plus margins of 0.75% and 1.00%, respectively. the rate on the revolver consisted of a one-month libor base rate plus a margin of 0.75%. we have an interest rate swap contract which effectively converts the floating base rate on the original term loan to a fixed rate. as a result, our exposure to interest rate risk on the original term loan is capped. including the effect of the interest rate swap, the annualized interest rate on the original term loan was 5.81% as of december 31, 2009. the company does not hedge the interest rate risk on the 2008 term loan and the revolver. accordingly, we are exposed to interest rate risk on this debt. a 25 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would change pre-tax annual interest expense on the $300.0 million revolver and the $80.0 million outstanding on the 2008 term loan by approximately $1.0 million. 25 table of contents foreign currency exchange risk we have clients in over 80 countries and as a result we conduct business in numerous currencies other than the u.s dollar. among the major foreign currencies in which we conduct business are the euro, the british pound, the japanese yen, the australian dollar, and the canadian dollar. our foreign currency exposure results in both translation risk and transaction risk: translation risk we are exposed to foreign currency translation risk since the functional currencies of our foreign operations are generally denominated in the local currency. translation risk arises since the assets and liabilities that we report for our foreign subsidiaries are translated into u.s. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet dates, and these exchange rates fluctuate over time. these foreign currency translation adjustments are deferred and are recorded as a component of stockholders equity and do not impact our operating results. a measure of the potential impact of foreign currency translation on our consolidated balance sheets can be determined through a sensitivity analysis of our cash and cash equivalents. as of december 31, 2009, we had $116.6 million of cash and cash equivalents, of which approximately $70.0 million was denominated in foreign currencies. if foreign exchange rates in comparison to the u.s dollar changed by 10%, the amount of cash and cash equivalents we would have reported on december 31, 2009 would have increased or decreased by approximately $4.0 million. our foreign subsidiaries generally operate in a local functional currency that differs from the u.s. dollar. revenues and expenses in these foreign currencies translate into higher or lower revenues and expenses in u.s. dollars as the u.s. dollar continuously weakens or strengthens against these other currencies. therefore, changes in exchange rates may affect our consolidated revenues and expenses (as expressed in u.s. dollars) from foreign operations. historically, this impact on our consolidated earnings has not been material since foreign currency movements in the major currencies in which we operate tend to impact our revenues and expenses fairly equally. transaction risk we also have foreign exchange transaction risk since we typically enter into transactions in the normal course of business that are denominated in foreign currencies that differ from local functional currencies in which the foreign subsidiaries operate. we typically enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to offset the effects of this foreign currency transaction risk. these contracts are normally short term in duration. unrealized and realized gains and losses are recognized in earnings. at december 31, 2009, we had 19 foreign currency forward contracts outstanding with a total notional amount of $117.3 million and a net unrealized gain of approximately $0.7 million. all of these contracts matured by the end of january 2010. concentration of credit risk financial instruments that potentially subject the company to concentration of credit risk consist primarily of short-term, highly liquid investments classified as cash equivalents, accounts receivable, and interest rate swap contracts. the majority of the company cash equivalent investments and its two interest rate swap contracts are with investment grade commercial banks that are participants in the company credit agreement. accounts receivable balances deemed to be collectible from customers have limited concentration of credit risk due to our diverse customer base and geographic dispersion.risk factors 7 risk factors we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties some of which are beyond our control. in addition, we and our clients are affected by global economic conditions. you should carefully consider the following risk factors and those set forth in our most recent annual report on form 10-k and quarterly reports on form 10-q, which are incorporated by reference in this prospectus supplement. see available information. you should also carefully consider all of the other information in this prospectus supplement or incorporated by reference herein. any of the risks described below could have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition and could therefore have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. additionally risks not currently known to us or that we now deem immaterial may also harm us and negatively affect your investment. risks related to our business our operating results could be negatively impacted by general economic conditions. our business is impacted by general economic conditions, both domestic and abroad. the severe tightening of the credit markets, significant bankruptcies and other disruptions in the financial markets, and the global economic recession that began in 2008 contributed to significant slowdowns and uncertainty in global trade and economic activity. although global credit and general economic conditions have improved, continuing difficulties in the financial markets and uncertainty regarding the sustainability of the global economic recovery could negatively and materially affect demand for our products and services. such difficulties could include the ability to maintain client retention, wallet retention and consulting utilization rates, achieve contract value and consulting backlog growth, attract attendees and exhibitors to our events or obtain new clients. such developments could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we face significant competition and our failure to compete successfully could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we face direct competition from a significant number of independent providers of information products and services, including information available on the internet free of charge. we also compete indirectly against consulting firms and other information providers, including electronic and print media companies, some of which may have greater financial, information gathering and marketing resources than we do. these indirect competitors could also choose to compete directly with us in the future. in addition, limited barriers to entry exist in the markets in which we do business. as a result, additional new competitors may emerge and existing competitors may start to provide additional or complementary services. additionally, technological advances may provide increased competition from a variety of sources. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete against current and future competitors and our failure to do so could result in loss of market share, diminished value in our products and services, reduced pricing and increased marketing expenditures. furthermore, we may not be successful if we cannot compete effectively on quality of research and analysis, timely delivery of information, customer service, and the ability to offer products to meet changing market needs for information and analysis, or price. we may not be able to maintain our existing products and services. we operate in a rapidly evolving market, and our success depends upon our ability to deliver high quality and timely research and analysis to our clients. any failure to continue to provide credible and reliable information that is useful to our clients could have a material adverse effect on future business and operating results. further, if our predictions prove to be wrong or are not substantiated by appropriate research, our reputation may suffer and demand for our products and services may decline. in addition, we must continue to improve our methods for delivering our 7 table of contents products and services in a cost-effective manner. failure to increase and improve our electronic delivery capabilities could adversely affect our future business and operating results. we may not be able to enhance and develop our existing products and services, or introduce the new products and services that are needed to remain competitive. the market for our products and services is characterized by rapidly changing needs for information and analysis on the it industry as a whole. the development of new products is a complex and time-consuming process. nonetheless, to maintain our competitive position, we must continue to enhance and improve our products and services, develop or acquire new products and services, deliver all products and services in a timely manner, and appropriately position and price new products and services relative to the marketplace and our costs of producing them. any failure to achieve successful client acceptance of new products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. additionally, significant delays in new product or services releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. we depend on renewals of subscription-based services and sales of new subscription-based services for a significant portion of our revenue, and our failure to renew at historical rates or generate new sales of such services could lead to a decrease in our revenues. a large portion of our success depends on our ability to generate renewals of our subscription-based research products and services and new sales of such products and services, both to new clients and existing clients. these products and services constituted 67% and 66% of our revenues for 2010 and 2009, respectively. generating new sales of our subscription-based products and services, both to new and existing clients, is often a time consuming process. if we are unable to generate new sales, due to competition or other factors, our revenues will be adversely affected. our research subscription agreements have terms that generally range from twelve to thirty months. our ability to maintain contract renewals is subject to numerous factors, including the following: delivering high-quality and timely analysis and advice to our clients; understanding and anticipating market trends and the changing needs of our clients; and delivering products and services of the quality and timeliness necessary to withstand competition. additionally, as we continue to adjust our products and service offerings to meet our clients continuing needs, we may shift the type and pricing of our products which may impact client renewal rates. while our research client retention rate was 83% at december 31, 2010 and 78% at december 31, 2009, there can be no guarantee that we will continue to maintain this rate of client renewals. we depend on non-recurring consulting engagements and our failure to secure new engagements could lead to a decrease in our revenues. consulting segment revenues constituted 23% of our total revenues for 2010 and 25% for 2009. these consulting engagements typically are project-based and non-recurring. our ability to replace consulting engagements is subject to numerous factors, including the following: delivering consistent, high-quality consulting services to our clients; tailoring our consulting services to the changing needs of our clients; and our ability to match the skills and competencies of our consulting staff to the skills required for the fulfillment of existing or potential consulting engagements. any material decline in our ability to replace consulting arrangements could have an adverse impact on our revenues and our financial condition. the profitability and success of our conferences, symposia and events could be adversely affected by external factors beyond our control. the market for desirable dates and locations for conferences, symposia and events is highly competitive. if we cannot secure desirable dates and locations for our conferences, symposia and events their profitability could suffer, and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. in addition, because our events are scheduled in advance and held at specific locations, the success of these events can be affected by circumstances outside of our control, such as labor strikes, 8 table of contents transportation shutdowns and travel restrictions, economic slowdowns, terrorist attacks, weather, natural disasters and other world events impacting the global economy, the occurrence of any of which could negatively impact the success of the event and as the global economy recovers, our ability to procure space for our events and keep associated costs down could become more challenging. our sales to governments are subject to appropriations and may be terminated. we derive significant revenues from contracts with the u.s. government and its respective agencies, numerous state and local governments and their respective agencies, and foreign governments and their agencies. at december 31, 2010 and 2009, approximately $210.0 million and $182.0 million, respectively, of our research contract value and consulting backlog was attributable to governments. we believe substantially all of the amount attributable to governments at december 31, 2010 will be filled in 2011. our u.s. government contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations by the u.s. congress to fund the agencies contracting for our services, and our contracts at the state and local levels are subject to various government authorizations and funding approvals and mechanisms. in general, most if not all of these contracts may be terminated at any time without cause ( termination for convenience ). additionally, many state governments, their agencies, and municipalities across the united states are under severe financial strain and are considering significant budget cuts. should appropriations for the governments and agencies that contract with us be curtailed, or should government contracts be terminated for convenience, we may experience a significant loss of segment and consolidated revenues. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel which could jeopardize the quality of our products and services. our success depends heavily upon the quality of our senior management, research analysts, consultants, sales and other key personnel. we face competition for the limited pool of these qualified professionals from, among others, technology companies, market research firms, consulting firms, financial services companies and electronic and print media companies, some of which have a greater ability to attract and compensate these professionals. some of the personnel that we attempt to hire are subject to non-compete agreements that could impede our short-term recruitment efforts. any failure to retain key personnel or hire and train additional qualified personnel as required to support the evolving needs of clients or growth in our business, could adversely affect the quality of our products and services, as well as future business and operating results. we may not be able to maintain the equity in our brand name. we believe that our gartner brand, including our independence, is critical to our efforts to attract and retain clients and that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition increases. we may expand our marketing activities to promote and strengthen the gartner brand and may need to increase our marketing budget, hire additional marketing and public relations personnel, expend additional sums to protect the brand and otherwise increase expenditures to create and maintain client brand loyalty. if we fail to effectively promote and maintain the gartner brand, or incur excessive expenses in doing so, our future business and operating results could be adversely impacted. our international operations expose us to a variety of operational risks which could negatively impact our future revenue and growth. we have clients in 85 countries and 44% and 45% of our revenues for 2010 and 2009, respectively, were derived from sales outside of the u.s. our operating results are subject to the risks inherent in international business activities, including general political and economic conditions in each country, changes in market demand as a result of tariffs and other trade barriers, challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations, changes in regulatory requirements, compliance with numerous foreign laws and regulations, differences between u.s. and foreign tax rates and laws, and the difficulty of enforcing client agreements, collecting accounts receivable and protecting intellectual property rights in international jurisdictions. furthermore, we rely on local distributors or sales agents in some international locations. if any of these arrangements are terminated by our agent or us, we may not be able to replace the arrangement on beneficial terms or on a timely basis, or clients of the local distributor or sales agent may not want to continue to do business with us or our new agent. our international operations expose us to volatility in foreign currency exchange rates. revenues earned outside the u.s. are typically transacted in local currencies, which may fluctuate significantly against the dollar. while we may use forward exchange contracts to a limited extent to seek to mitigate foreign currency risk, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. catastrophic events or geo-political conditions may disrupt our business. a disruption or failure of our systems or operations or our ability to deliver our research content over the internet in the event of a major weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other mission-critical functions. our corporate headquarters is located approximately 30 miles from new york city, and we have an operations center located in ft. myers, florida, in a hurricane-prone area. we also operate in numerous international locations. a catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology systems could harm our ability to conduct normal business operations and negatively impact our operating results. abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose a risk of general economic disruption in affected countries, which may increase our operating costs. additionally, these conditions also may add uncertainty to the timing and budget decisions of our clients. 9 table of contents we may experience outages and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure. our increasing user traffic and complexity of our products and services demand more computing power. we have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to maintain data centers and equipment and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle increased traffic on our websites. however, any inefficiencies or operational failures could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience, resulting in damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, harming our operating results and financial condition. our outstanding debt obligations could impact our financial condition or future operating results. in december 2010 we refinanced our debt by entering into a new credit agreement that provides for a five-year, $200.0 million term loan and a $400.0 million revolving credit facility (the 2010 credit agreement ). the 2010 credit agreement contains an expansion feature by which the term loan and revolving facility may be increased, at our option and under certain conditions, by up to an additional $150.0 million in the aggregate which may or may not be available to us depending upon prevailing credit market conditions. the affirmative, negative and financial covenants of the 2010 credit agreement could limit our future financial flexibility. additionally, a failure to comply with these covenants could result in acceleration of all amounts outstanding under the credit agreement, which would materially impact our financial condition unless accommodations could be negotiated with our lenders. no assurance can be given that we would be successful in doing so in this current financial climate, or that any accommodations that we were able to negotiate would be on terms as favorable as those presently contained in the credit agreement. the associated debt service costs of the borrowing arrangement under our 2010 credit agreement could impair our future operating results. the outstanding debt may limit the amount of cash or additional credit available to us, which could restrain our ability to expand or enhance products and services, respond to competitive pressures or pursue future business opportunities requiring substantial investments of additional capital. we may require additional cash resources which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. we believe that our existing cash balances, projected cash flow from operations, and the borrowing capacity we have under our revolving credit facility will be sufficient for our needs. however, we may require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions, implementation of our strategy and stock repurchase program, to repay indebtedness or to pursue future business opportunities requiring substantial investments of additional capital. if our existing financial resources are insufficient to satisfy our requirements, we may seek additional borrowings. prevailing credit market conditions may negatively affect debt availability and cost, and, as a result, financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. in addition, the incurrence of additional indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could require us to agree to operating and financial covenants that would further restrict our operations. if we are unable to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights our competitive position may be harmed. we rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, confidentiality, non-compete and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property rights. despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized third parties may obtain and use technology or other information that we regard as proprietary. our intellectual property rights may not survive a legal challenge to their validity or provide significant protection for us. the laws of certain countries, particularly in emerging markets, do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. accordingly, we may not be able to protect our intellectual property against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. our employees are subject to non-compete agreements. when the non-competition period expires, former employees may compete against us. if a former employee chooses to compete against us prior to the expiration of the non-competition period, we seek to enforce these non-compete provisions but there is no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts. additionally, there can be no assurance that another party will not assert that we have infringed its intellectual property rights. 10 table of contents we have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions and strategic investments, which could involve substantial risks. we have made and may continue to make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses that offer complementary products and services. the risks involved in each acquisition or investment include the possibility of paying more than the value we derive from the acquisition, dilution of the interests of our current stockholders or decreased working capital, increased indebtedness, the assumption of undisclosed liabilities and unknown and unforeseen risks, the ability to retain key personnel of the acquired company, the inability to integrate the business of the acquired company, the time to train the sales force to market and sell the products of the acquired business, the potential disruption of our ongoing business and the distraction of management from our business. the realization of any of these risks could adversely affect our business. additionally, we face competition in identifying acquisition targets and consummating acquisitions. we face risks related to litigation. we are, and may in the future be, subject to a variety of legal actions, such as employment, breach of contract, intellectual property-related, and business torts, including claims of unfair trade practices and misappropriation of trade secrets. given the nature of our business, we are also subject to defamation (including libel and slander), negligence, or other claims relating to the information we publish. regardless of the merits, responding to any such claim could be time consuming, result in costly litigation and require us to enter into settlements, royalty and licensing agreements which may not be offered or available on reasonable terms. if a successful claim is made against us and we fail to settle the claim on reasonable terms, our business, results of operations or financial position could be materially adversely affected. we face risks related to taxation. we operate in numerous domestic and foreign taxing jurisdictions and our level of operations and profitability in each jurisdiction may have an impact upon the amount of income taxes that we recognize in any given year. in addition, our tax filings for various tax years are subject to audit by the tax authorities in jurisdictions where we conduct business, and in the ordinary course of business, we may be under audit by one or more tax authorities from time to time. these audits may result in assessments of additional taxes, and resolution of these matters involves uncertainties and there are no assurances that the ultimate resolution will not exceed the amounts we have recorded. additionally, the results of an audit could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. risks related to our common stock our operating results may fluctuate from period to period and may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors or guidance we have given, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate in the future as a result of many factors, including the timing of the execution of research contracts, the extent of completion of consulting engagements, the timing of symposia and other events, the amount of new business generated, the mix of domestic and international business, currency fluctuations, changes in market demand for our products and services, the timing of the development, introduction and marketing of new products and services, and competition in the industry. an inability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flow, and achieve our forecasts, may impact our operating and other activities. the potential fluctuations in our operating results could cause period-to-period comparisons of operating results not to be meaningful and may provide an unreliable indication of future operating results. furthermore, our operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in the future or guidance we have given. if this occurs, the price of our stock would likely decline. our stock price may be impacted by factors outside of our control and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid. the trading prices of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to, among other factors, developments in the industries in which we do business, general economic conditions, general market conditions, changes in the nature and composition of our stockholder base, changes in securities analysts recommendations regarding our securities and our performance relative to securities analysts expectations for any quarterly period. these factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our stock price. sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock in the public market by our current stockholders, or the threat that substantial sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease significantly or make it difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling stock. furthermore, we have various equity incentive plans that provide for awards in the form of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other stock-based awards which have the effect of adding shares of common stock into the public market. as of december 31, 2010, the aggregate number of shares of our common stock issuable pursuant to outstanding grants and awards under these plans was approximately 9.0 million shares (approximately 3.5 million of which have vested). in addition, approximately 7.0 million shares may be issued in connection with future awards under our equity incentive plans. shares of common stock issued under these plans are freely transferable without further registration under the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act ), except for any shares held by affiliates (as that term is defined in rule 144 under the securities act). we cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. 11 table of contents interests of certain of our significant stockholders may conflict with yours . to our knowledge, as of the date of this report and based upon sec filings, seven institutional investors each presently hold over 5% of our common stock. additionally, a representative of valueact capital master fund l.p. ( valueact capital ) presently holds one seat on our board of directors. while no stockholder or institutional investor individually holds a majority of our outstanding shares, these significant stockholders may be able, either individually or acting together, to exercise significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation, adoption or amendment of equity plans and approval of significant transactions such as mergers, acquisitions, consolidations and sales or purchases of assets. in addition, in the event of a proposed acquisition of the company by a third party, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change of control in us. accordingly, the interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, or otherwise be in the best interests of us or all stockholders. our anti-takeover protections may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and delaware law may make it difficult for any party to acquire control of us in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. these provisions include: the ability of our board of directors to issue and determine the terms of preferred stock; advance notice requirements for inclusion of stockholder proposals at stockholder meetings; and the anti-takeover provisions of delaware law. these provisions could discourage or prevent a change of control or change in management that might provide stockholders with a premium to the market price of their common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 31 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate risk we have exposure to changes in interest rates arising from borrowings under our 2010 credit agreement, and at december 31, 2010 we had $200.0 million outstanding under the term loan and $20.0 million outstanding under the revolver. borrowings under this facility are floating rate, which may be either prime-based or eurodollar-based. interest rates under these borrowings include a base rate plus a margin between 0.50% and 1.25% on prime borrowings and between 1.50% and 2.25% on eurodollar-based borrowings. as of december 31, 2010, the annualized interest rate on the term loan was 2.30%, which consisted of a 0.3% three-month eurodollar base rate plus a margin of 2.0%, and 2.26% on the revolver, which consisted of a 0.26% one-month eurodollar base rate plus a margin of 2.0%. we have an interest rate swap contract which effectively converts the floating base rate on the first $200.0 million of our borrowings to a 2.26% fixed rate. the company only hedges the base interest rate risk on the first $200.0 million of its outstanding borrowings. accordingly, we are exposed to interest rate risk on borrowings in excess of $200.0 million. a 25 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would change pre-tax annual interest expense on the additional $400.0 million borrowing capacity under the 2010 credit agreement by approximately $1.0 million. 31 table of contents foreign currency exchange risk we have customers in 85 countries and 44% and 45% of our revenues for 2010 and 2009, respectively, were derived from sales outside of the u.s. as a result we conduct business in numerous currencies other than the u.s dollar. among the major foreign currencies in which we conduct business are the euro, the british pound, the japanese yen, the australian dollar, and the canadian dollar. our foreign currency exposure results in both translation risk and transaction risk: translation risk we are exposed to foreign currency translation risk since the functional currencies of our foreign operations are generally denominated in the local currency. translation risk arises since the assets and liabilities that we report for our foreign subsidiaries are translated into u.s. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet dates, and these exchange rates fluctuate over time. these foreign currency translation adjustments are deferred and are recorded as a component of stockholders equity and do not impact our operating results. a measure of the potential impact of foreign currency translation on our condensed consolidated balance sheets can be determined through a sensitivity analysis of our cash and cash equivalents. as of december 31, 2010, we had over $120.0 million of cash and cash equivalents, a substantial portion of which was denominated in foreign currencies. if the foreign exchange rates of the major currencies in which we operate changed in comparison to the u.s. dollar by 10%, the amount of cash and cash equivalents we would have reported on december 31, 2010 would have increased or decreased by approximately $5.0 million. because our foreign subsidiaries generally operate in a local functional currency that differs from the u.s. dollar, revenues and expenses in these foreign currencies translate into higher or lower revenues and expenses in u.s. dollars as the u.s. dollar continuously weakens or strengthens against these other currencies. therefore, changes in exchange rates may affect our consolidated revenues and expenses (as expressed in u.s. dollars) from foreign operations. historically, this impact on our consolidated earnings has not been material since foreign currency movements in the major currencies in which we operate tend to impact our revenues and expenses fairly equally. transaction risk we also have foreign exchange transaction risk since we typically enter into transactions in the normal course of business that are denominated in foreign currencies that differ from the local functional currency in which the foreign subsidiary operates. we typically enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to offset the effects of foreign currency transaction risk. these contracts are normally short term in duration and unrealized and realized gains and losses are recognized in current period earnings. at december 31, 2010, we had 63 outstanding foreign currency forward contracts with a total notional amount of $250.2 million and a net unrealized gain of $0.6 million. all of these contracts matured by the end of january 2011. concentration of credit risk financial instruments that potentially subject the company to concentration of credit risk consist primarily of short-term, highly liquid investments classified as cash equivalents, accounts receivable, and interest rate swap contracts. the majority of the company cash and cash equivalents and its interest rate swap contract are with investment grade commercial banks that are participants in the company 2010 credit agreement. accounts receivable balances deemed to be collectible from customers have limited concentration of credit risk due to our diverse customer base and geographic dispersion.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 26 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate risk as of december 31, 2003, we have limited exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates since our long-term debt was converted to equity during the fourth quarter of calendar 2003. additionally, we have no borrowings under our $200.0 million unsecured senior revolving credit facility with jpmorgan chase bank. under the revolving credit facility, the interest rate on borrowings is libor plus an additional 100 to 200 basis points based on our debt-to-ebitda ratio. we believe that an increase or decrease of 10% in the effective interest rate on available borrowings from our senior revolving credit facility, if fully utilized, would not have a material effect on our future results of operations. each 25 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would have an approximate $0.5 million annual effect under the revolving credit facility if fully utilized. investment risk we are exposed to market risk as it relates to changes in the market value of our equity investments. we invest in equity securities of public and private companies directly and through si i, a wholly-owned affiliate, and si ii, of which we own 34%. si i and si ii are engaged in making venture capital investments in early to mid-stage it-based or internet-enabled companies (see note 4 - investments in the notes to the consolidated financial statements). as of december 31, 2003, we had investments in equity securities totaling $10.9 million. unrealized gains and losses were insignificant. these investments are inherently risky as the businesses are typically in early development stages and may never develop. further, certain of these investments are in publicly traded companies whose shares are subject to significant market price volatility. adverse changes in market conditions and poor operating results of the underlying investments may result in us incurring additional losses or an inability to recover the original carrying value of our investments. if there were a 100% adverse change in the value of our equity portfolio as of december 31, 2003, this would result in a non-cash impairment charge of $10.9 million. additionally, we have a commitment to fund an additional $4.0 million of investments with si ii. foreign currency exchange risk we face two risks related to foreign currency exchange: translation risk and transaction risk. amounts invested in our foreign operations are translated into u.s. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date. the resulting translation adjustments are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the stockholders' equity (deficit) section of the consolidated balance sheets. our foreign subsidiaries generally collect revenues and pay expenses in currencies other than the united states dollar. since the functional currencies of our foreign operations are generally denominated in the local currency of our subsidiaries, the foreign currency translation adjustments are reflected as a component of stockholders' equity and do not impact operating results. revenues and expenses in foreign currencies translate into higher or lower revenues and expenses in u.s. dollars as the u.s. dollar weakens or strengthens against other currencies. therefore, changes in exchange rates may negatively affect our consolidated revenues and expenses (as expressed in u.s. dollars) from foreign operations. currency transaction gains or losses arising from transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are included within other income (expense), net within the consolidated statements of operations. currency transaction gains (losses), net were $0.5 million during calendar 2003, $(0.4) million during calendar, 2002, $(0.1) million during transition 2002, $(0.8) million during fiscal 2002, and $(3.5) million during fiscal 2001. from time to time we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative financial instruments to hedge the effects of adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. at december 31, 2003, we had one foreign currency forward contract outstanding. foreign exchange forward contracts are reflected at fair value with gains and losses recorded currently in earnings. the following table presents information about our foreign currency forward contract outstanding as of december 31, 2003, expressed in u.s. dollar equivalents. contract amount forward unrealized loss currency purchased currency sold (in thousands) exchange rate (in thousands) expiration date - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- euros u.s. dollars $2,000 1.2499 $-- january 26, 2004 10-k.27