risk factors you should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k. each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. economic downturns and disruptions in financial markets can adversely affect our business and results of operations. our results of operations can be materially affected by adverse conditions in the financial markets and depressed economic conditions generally. economic downturns in the businesses and geographic areas in which we sell our products substantially reduce demand for our products and result in decreased sales volumes. recessionary environments adversely affect our business because demand for our products is reduced, particularly from our customers in industrial markets generally and the automotive and housing industries specifically. moreover, many of our customers and suppliers rely on access to credit to adequately fund their operations. disruptions in financial markets and economic slowdown can adversely impact the ability of our customers to finance the purchase of our products as well as the creditworthiness of those customers. these same factors may also impact the ability and willingness of suppliers to provide us with raw materials for our business. the cyclicality and volatility of the industries in which we participate may cause significant fluctuations in our operating results. our business operations are subject to the cyclical and volatile nature of the supply-demand balance in the chemical and refining industries. our future operating results are expected to continue to be affected by this cyclicality and volatility. the chemical and refining industries historically have experienced alternating periods of capacity shortages, causing prices and profit margins to increase, followed by periods of excess capacity, resulting in oversupply, declining capacity utilization rates and declining prices and profit margins. in addition to changes in the supply and demand for products, changes in energy prices and other worldwide economic conditions can cause volatility. these factors result in significant fluctuations in profits and cash flow from period to period and over business cycles. in addition, new capacity additions, especially in asia and the middle east, are expected to lead to a period of oversupply and lower profitability. the timing and extent of any changes to currently prevailing market conditions is uncertain and supply and demand may be unbalanced at any time. as a consequence, we are unable to accurately predict the extent or duration of future industry cycles or their effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we can give no assurances as to any predictions we may make with respect to the timing, extent or duration of future industry cycles. 31 table of contents costs and limitations on supply of raw materials and energy may result in increased operating expenses. the costs of raw materials and energy represent a substantial portion of our operating expenses. energy costs generally follow price trends of crude oil and natural gas. these price trends may be highly volatile and cyclical. in the past, raw material and energy costs have experienced significant fluctuations that adversely affected our business segments results of operations. moreover, fluctuations in currency exchange rates can add to this volatility. we are not always able to pass raw material and energy cost increases on to our customers. when we do have the ability to pass on the cost increases, we are not always able to do so quickly enough to avoid adverse impacts on our results of operations. cost increases also may increase working capital needs, which could reduce our liquidity and cash flow. even if we increase our sales prices to reflect rising raw material and energy costs, demand for products may decrease as customers reduce their consumption or use substitute products, which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. in addition, producers in natural gas cost-advantaged regions, such as the middle east, benefit from the lower prices of natural gas and ngls. competition from producers in these regions may cause us to reduce exports from north america and europe. any such reductions may increase competition for product sales within north america and europe, which can result in lower margins in those regions. additionally, there are a limited number of suppliers for some of our raw materials and utilities and, in some cases, the supplies are specific to the particular geographic region in which a facility is located. it is also common in the chemical and refining industries for a facility to have a sole, dedicated source for its utilities, such as steam, electricity and gas. having a sole or limited number of suppliers may limit our negotiating power, particularly in the case of rising raw material costs. any new supply agreements we enter into may not have terms as favorable as those contained in our current supply agreements. if our raw material or utility supplies were disrupted, our businesses may incur increased costs to procure alternative supplies or incur excessive downtime, which would have a direct negative impact on plant operations. for example, hurricanes have in the past negatively affected crude oil and natural gas supplies, as well as supplies of other raw materials, utilities (such as electricity and steam), and industrial gases, contributing to increases in operating costs and, in some cases, disrupting production. in addition, hurricane-related disruption of vessel, barge, rail, truck and pipeline traffic in the u.s. gulf coast area would negatively affect shipments of raw materials and product. in addition, with increased volatility in raw material costs, our suppliers could impose more onerous terms on us, resulting in shorter payment cycles and increasing our working capital requirements. we sell products in highly competitive global markets and face significant price pressures. we sell our products in highly competitive global markets. due to the commodity nature of many of our products, competition in these markets is based primarily on price and, to a lesser extent, on product performance, product quality, product deliverability, reliability of supply and customer service. generally, we are not able to protect our market position for these products by product differentiation and may not be able to pass on cost increases to our customers. in addition, we face increased competition from companies that may have greater financial resources and different cost structures or strategic goals than us. these include large integrated oil companies (many of which also have chemical businesses), government-owned businesses, and companies that receive subsidies or other government incentives to produce certain products in a specified geographic region. increased competition from these companies, especially in our olefin and refining businesses, could limit our ability to increase product sales prices in response to raw material and other cost increases, or could cause us to reduce product sales prices to compete effectively, which could reduce our profitability. competitors that have greater financial resources than us may be able to invest significant capital into their businesses, including expenditures for research and development. 32 table of contents in addition, specialty products we produce may become commoditized over time. increased competition could result in lower prices or lower sales volumes, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. our ability to source raw materials, including crude oil, may be adversely affected by political instability, civil disturbances or other governmental actions. we obtain a substantial portion of our principal raw materials from sources in north africa, the middle east, and south america that may be less politically stable than other areas in which we conduct business, such as europe or the us. recently, increased incidents of civil unrest, including demonstrations which have been marked by violence, have occurred in some countries in north africa and the middle east. some political regimes in these countries are threatened or have changed as a result of such unrest. political instability and civil unrest could continue to spread in the region and involve other areas. such unrest, if it continues to spread or grow in intensity, could lead to civil wars, regional conflict, or regime changes resulting in governments that are hostile to countries in which we conduct substantial business, such as europe, the us, or their respective allies. we source a large portion of our crude oil from venezuela. from time to time in the past, the venezuelan national oil company, pdvsa, has declared itself in a force majeure situation and reduced deliveries of crude oil purportedly based on announced opec production cuts. it is impossible to predict how possible changes in governmental policies may affect our sourcing. any significant reduction in venezuelan crude oil supplies could negatively impact our ability to procure crude oil, from venezuela or other sources, on economically advantageous terms. political instability, civil disturbances and actions by governments in north africa, the middle east or south america are likely to substantially increase the price and decrease the supply of feedstocks necessary for our operations, which will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. interruptions of operations at our facilities may result in liabilities or lower operating results. we own and operate large-scale facilities. our operating results are dependent on the continued operation of our various production facilities and the ability to complete construction and maintenance projects on schedule. interruptions at our facilities may materially reduce the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility, or our business as a whole, during and after the period of such operational difficulties. in the past, we had to shut down plants on the u.s. gulf coast, including the temporary shutdown of the houston refinery, as a result of hurricanes striking the texas coast. in addition, because the houston refinery is our only north american refining operation, an outage at the refinery could have a particularly negative impact on our operating results. unlike our chemical and polymer production facilities, which may have sufficient excess capacity to mitigate the negative impact of lost production at other facilities, we do not have the ability to increase refining production elsewhere in the u.s. although we take precautions to enhance the safety of our operations and minimize the risk of disruptions, our operations are subject to hazards inherent in chemical manufacturing and refining and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes. these potential hazards include: pipeline leaks and ruptures; explosions; fires; severe weather and natural disasters; mechanical failure; unscheduled downtimes; supplier disruptions; 33 table of contents labor shortages or other labor difficulties; transportation interruptions; remediation complications; chemical and oil spills; discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases; storage tank leaks; other environmental risks; and terrorist acts. some of these hazards may cause severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and may result in suspension of operations or the shutdown of affected facilities. our operations are subject to risks inherent in chemical and refining businesses, and we could be subject to liabilities for which we are not fully insured or that are not otherwise mitigated. we maintain property, business interruption, product, general liability, casualty and other types of insurance, including pollution and legal liability, that we believe are in accordance with customary industry practices. however, we are not fully insured against all potential hazards incident to our business, including losses resulting from natural disasters, war risks or terrorist acts. changes in insurance market conditions have caused, and may in the future cause, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies to increase substantially and, in some instances, for certain insurance to become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. if we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, we might not be able to finance the amount of the uninsured liability on terms acceptable to us or at all, and might be obligated to divert a significant portion of our cash flow from normal business operations. further, because a part of our business involves licensing polyolefin process technology, our licensees are exposed to similar risks involved in the manufacture and marketing of polyolefins. hazardous incidents involving our licensees, if they do result or are perceived to result from use of our technologies, may harm our reputation, threaten our relationships with other licensees and/or lead to customer attrition and financial losses. our policy of covering these risks through contractual limitations of liability and indemnities and through insurance may not always be effective. as a result, our financial condition and results of operation would be adversely affected, and other companies with competing technologies may have the opportunity to secure a competitive advantage. certain activities related to a former project raise compliance issues under u.s. law. we have identified an agreement related to a former project in kazakhstan under which a payment was made in late 2008 that raises compliance concerns under the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ). we have engaged outside counsel to investigate these activities, under the oversight of a special committee established by the supervisory board, and to evaluate internal controls and compliance policies and procedures. we made a voluntary disclosure of these matters to the u.s. department of justice in late 2009 and are cooperating fully with that agency. in this respect, we may not have conducted our business in compliance with the fcpa and may not have had policies and procedures in place adequate to ensure compliance. we cannot reasonably estimate any potential penalty that may arise from these matters. we have adopted and are implementing more stringent policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance. we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these matters at this time since our investigations are ongoing. violations of these laws could result in criminal and civil liabilities and other forms of relief that could be material to us. 34 table of contents our non-u.s. operations conduct business in countries subject to u.s. economic sanctions and certain activities raise compliance issues under u.s. law. certain of our non-u.s. subsidiaries conduct business in countries subject to u.s. economic sanctions, including iran. u.s. and eu laws and regulations prohibit certain persons from engaging in business activities, in whole or in part, with sanctioned countries, organizations and individuals. we have and continue to adopt more significant compliance policies and procedures to ensure compliance with all applicable sanctions laws and regulations. in connection with our continuing review of compliance risks in this area, we made a voluntary disclosure of certain matters to the u.s. treasury department and intend to continue cooperating fully with that agency. we cannot at this point in time predict the outcome of this matter because our investigation is ongoing, but there is a risk that we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties. we have made the decision to terminate all business by the company and its direct and indirect subsidiaries with the government, entities and individuals in iran, syria and sudan. we have notified our counterparties in these countries of our decision and may be subject to legal actions to enforce agreements with the counterparties. these activities present a potential risk that could subject the company to private legal proceedings that could be material to us. at this time, we cannot predict the outcome because our withdrawal activities are ongoing. our operations could be adversely affected by labor relations. the vast majority of our employees located in europe and south america are represented by labor unions and work councils. approximately 900 of our employees located in north america are represented by labor unions. of the north american employees, approximately 50% include our employees that are covered by a collective bargaining agreement between houston refining lp and the united steelworkers union, which expires on january 31, 2012. our operations have been in the past, and may be in the future, significantly and adversely affected by strikes, work stoppages and other labor disputes. we cannot predict with certainty the extent of future costs under environmental, health and safety and other laws and regulations, and cannot guarantee they will not be material. we may face liability arising out of the normal course of business, including alleged personal injury or property damage due to exposure to chemicals or other hazardous substances at our current or former facilities or chemicals that we manufacture, handle or own. in addition, because our products are components of a variety of other end-use products, we, along with other members of the chemical industry, are subject to potential claims related to those end-use products. any substantial increase in the success of these types of claims could negatively affect our operating results. we (together with the industries in which we operate) are subject to extensive national, regional, state and local environmental laws, regulations, directives, rules and ordinances concerning emissions to the air, discharges onto land or surface waters or into groundwater; and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials. many of these laws and regulations provide for substantial fines and potential criminal sanctions for violations. some of these laws and regulations are subject to varying and conflicting interpretations. in addition, some of these laws and regulations require us to meet specific financial responsibility requirements. any substantial liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 35 table of contents although we have compliance programs and other processes intended to ensure compliance with all such regulations, we are subject to the risk that our compliance with such regulations could be challenged. non-compliance with certain of these regulations could result in the incurrence of additional costs, penalties or assessments that could be material. our industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and existing or future regulations may restrict our operations, increase our costs of operations or require us to make additional capital expenditures. compliance with regulatory requirements could result in higher operating costs, such as regulatory requirements relating to emissions, the security of our facilities, and the transportation, export or registration of our products. we generally expect that regulatory controls worldwide will become increasingly more demanding, but cannot accurately predict future developments. increasingly strict environmental laws and inspection and enforcement policies, could affect the handling, manufacture, use, emission or disposal of products, other materials or hazardous and non-hazardous waste. stricter environmental, safety and health laws, regulations and enforcement policies could result in increased operating costs. additionally, we are required to have permits for our businesses and are subject to licensing regulations. these permits and licenses are subject to renewal, modification and in some circumstances, revocation. further, the permits and licenses are often difficult, time consuming and costly to obtain and could contain conditions that limit our operations. we may incur substantial costs to comply with climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives. there has been a broad range of proposed or promulgated state, national and international laws focusing on greenhouse gas ( ghg ) reduction. these proposed or promulgated laws apply or could apply in countries where we have interests or may have interests in the future. laws in this field continue to evolve and, while they are likely to be increasingly widespread and stringent, at this stage it is not possible to accurately estimate either a timetable for implementation or our future compliance costs relating to implementation. within the framework of eu emissions trading, we were allocated certain allowances of carbon dioxide per year for the affected plants of our european sites for the 2005 to 2007 period. for the second trading period (2008 to 2012), a number of our plants are included in the europe-wide trading system. we expect to incur additional costs as a result of the existing emissions trading scheme and could incur additional costs in relation to any future carbon or other greenhouse gas emission trading schemes. the costs could be higher to the extent that we decide to sell credits that we need in the future. in the u.s., the environmental protection agency (the epa ) has promulgated federal ghg regulations under the clean air act affecting certain sources. the epa has issued mandatory ghg reporting requirements which could lead to further obligations. the recent epa action could be a precursor to further federal regulation of carbon dioxide emissions and other greenhouse gases, and may affect the outcome of other climate change lawsuits pending in united states federal courts in a manner unfavorable to our industry. in any event, additional regulation is likely to be forthcoming at the united states federal level or the state level with respect to ghg emissions, and such regulation could result in the creation of additional costs in the form of taxes or required acquisition or trading of emission allowances. compliance with these or other changes in laws, regulations and obligations that create a ghg emissions trading scheme or ghg reduction policies generally could significantly increase our costs or reduce demand for products we produce. depending on the nature of potential regulations and legislation, any future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. legislation and regulatory initiatives could lead to a decrease in demand for our products. new or revised governmental regulations and independent studies relating to the effect of our products on health, safety and the environment may affect demand for our products and the cost of producing our products. initiatives by governments and private interest groups will potentially require increased toxicological testing and risk assessments of a wide variety of chemicals, including chemicals used or produced by us. for example, in the united states, the national toxicology program ( ntp ) is a federal interagency program that seeks to 36 table of contents identify and select for study chemicals and other substances to evaluate potential human health hazards. in the european commission, reach is regulation designed to identify the intrinsic properties of chemical substances, assess hazards and risks of the substances, and identify and implement the risk management measures to protect humans and the environment. assessments by the ntp, reach or similar programs or regulations in other jurisdictions may result in heightened concerns about the chemicals we use or produce and may result in additional requirements being placed on the production, handling, labeling or use of those chemicals. such concerns and additional requirements could also increase the cost incurred by our customers to use our chemical products and otherwise limit the use of these products, which could lead to a decrease in demand for these products. such a decrease in demand could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. we operate internationally and are subject to exchange rate fluctuations, exchange controls, political risks and other risks relating to international operations. we operate internationally and are subject to the risks of doing business on a global level, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates, transportation delays and interruptions, war, terrorist activities, epidemics, pandemics, political and economic instability and disruptions, restrictions on the transfer of funds, the imposition of duties and tariffs, import and export controls, changes in governmental policies, labor unrest and current and changing regulatory environments. recent demonstrations and popular unrest in portions of the middle east are examples of these events. these events could reduce the demand for our products, decrease the prices at which we can sell our products, disrupt production or other operations, require substantial capital and other costs to comply, and/or increase security costs or insurance premiums, all of which could reduce our operating results. in addition, we obtain a substantial portion of our principal raw materials from international sources that are subject to these same risks. our compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations to which we may be subject could be challenged. furthermore, these laws may be modified, the result of which may be to prevent or limit subsidiaries from transferring cash to us. furthermore, we are subject to certain existing, and may be subject to possible future, laws that limit or may limit our activities while some of our competitors may not be subject to such laws, which may adversely affect our competitiveness. in addition, we generate revenues from export sales and operations that may be denominated in currencies other than the relevant functional currency. exchange rates between these currencies and functional currencies in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may do so in the future. future events, which may significantly increase or decrease the risk of future movement in currencies in which we conduct our business, cannot be predicted. we also may hedge certain revenues and costs using derivative instruments to minimize the impact of changes in the exchange rates of those currencies compared to the respective functional currencies. it is possible that fluctuations in exchange rates will result in reduced operating results. significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions relating to pension costs may adversely affect the valuation of pension obligations, the funded status of pension plans, and our pension cost. our pension cost is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure pension obligations, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations at the measurement date and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets may result in corresponding increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets, particularly equity securities, or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. any change in key actuarial assumptions, such as the discount rate, would impact the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported funded status of our pension plans as well as the net periodic pension cost in the following fiscal years. 37 table of contents certain of our current pension plans are underfunded. as of december 31, 2010, our pension plans were underfunded by $1,173 million. any declines in the fair values of the pension plans assets could require additional payments by us in order to maintain specified funding levels. our pension plans are subject to legislative and regulatory requirements of applicable jurisdictions, which could include, under certain circumstances, local governmental authority to terminate the plan. we may be required to record material charges against our earnings due to any number of events that could cause impairments to our assets. we may be required to reduce production at or idle facilities for extended periods of time or exit certain businesses as a result of the cyclical nature of our industry. specifically, oversupplies of or lack of demand for particular products or high raw material prices may cause us to reduce production. we may choose to reduce production at certain facilities because we have off-take arrangements at other facilities, which makes any reductions or idling unavailable at those facilities. any decision to permanently close facilities or exit a business likely would result in impairment and other charges to earnings. temporary outages at our facilities can last for several quarters and sometimes longer. these outages could cause us to incur significant costs, including the expenses of maintaining and restarting these facilities. in addition, even though we may reduce production at facilities, we may be required to continue to purchase or pay for utilities or raw materials under take-or-pay supply agreements. many of our businesses depend on our intellectual property. our future success will depend in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, and our inability to do so could reduce our ability to maintain our competitiveness and margins. we have a significant worldwide patent portfolio of issued and pending patents. these patents, together with proprietary technical know-how, are significant to our competitive position, particularly with regard to po, performance chemicals, petrochemicals, and polymers, including process technologies such as spheripol, spherizone, hostalen, spherilene, lupotech t and lupotech g and avant catalyst family technology rights. we rely on the patent, copyright and trade secret laws of the countries in which we operate to protect our investment in research and development, manufacturing and marketing. however, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without authorization. proceedings to protect these rights could be costly, and we may not prevail. the protection afforded by patents varies from country to country and depends upon the type of patent and its scope of coverage. while a presumption of validity exists with respect to patents issued to us, our patents may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. as patents expire, the products and processes described and claimed under those patents become generally available for use by competitors. our continued growth strategy may bring us to regions of the world where intellectual property protection may be limited and difficult to enforce. in addition, patent rights may not prevent our competitors from developing, using or selling products that are similar or functionally equivalent to our products. moreover, our competitors or other third parties may obtain patents that restrict or preclude our ability to lawfully produce or sell our products in a competitive manner, which could result in significantly lower revenues, reduced profit margins or loss of market share. we also rely upon unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. while it is our policy to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, these confidentiality agreements may be breached, may not provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies may not be available. additionally, others could obtain knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development or other access by legal or illegal means. the failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our processes, apparatuses, technology, trade secrets or proprietary know-how could result in significantly lower revenues, reduced profit margins and cash flows 38 table of contents and/or loss of market share. we also may be subject to claims that our technology, patents or other intellectual property infringes on a third party intellectual property rights. unfavorable resolution of these claims could result in restrictions on our ability to deliver the related service or in a settlement that could be material to us. we may not be able to fully or successfully implement our ongoing plans to improve and globally integrate our business processes and functions. we continue to seek ways to drive greater productivity, flexibility and cost savings. in particular, we are working towards the improvement and global integration of our business processes and functions. as part of these efforts, we have been centralizing certain functions within the company, implementing new information technology, and integrating our existing information technology systems. our ongoing implementation of organizational improvements is made more difficult by our need to coordinate geographically dispersed operations. inabilities and delays in implementing improvements can negatively affect our ability to realize projected or expected cost savings. in addition, the process of organizational improvements may cause interruptions of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of the company businesses. it may also result in the loss of personnel or other labor issues. these issues, as well as any information technology systems failures, also could impede our ability to timely collect and report financial results in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. shared control or lack of control of joint ventures may delay decisions or actions regarding the joint ventures. a portion of our operations are conducted through joint ventures, where control may be exercised by or shared with unaffiliated third parties. we cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners, including any nonperformance, default or bankruptcy of joint venture partners. the joint ventures that we do not control may also lack adequate internal controls systems. in the event that any of our joint venture partners do not observe their obligations, it is possible that the affected joint venture would not be able to operate in accordance with our business plans. as a result, we could be required to increase our level of commitment in order to give effect to such plans. differences in views among the joint venture participants also may result in delayed decisions or in failures to agree on major matters, potentially adversely affecting the business and operations of the joint ventures and in turn our business and operations. litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements. we are involved in civil litigation in the ordinary course of our business and from time-to-time are involved in governmental proceedings relating to the conduct of our business. the timing of the final resolutions to these types of matters is often uncertain. additionally, the possible outcomes or resolutions to these matters could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments, adversely affecting our liquidity and earnings. our capital requirements could limit or cause us to change our growth and development plans. at december 31, 2010, we have approximately $6.1 billion of total consolidated debt. our debt and the limitations imposed on us by our financing arrangements could: require us to dedicate a substantial portion, or all, of our cash flow from operations to payments of principal and interest on our debt; make us more vulnerable during downturns , which could limit our ability to take advantage of significant business opportunities and react to changes in our business and in market or industry conditions; and put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors that have less debt. 39 table of contents if our cash flow from operations and capital resources were reduced, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or other planned uses of our cash due to our substantial debt service obligations. we could choose to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, but there can be no assurances that we would be able to do so on terms we deem acceptable, if at all. additionally, our debt instruments may limit our ability to effect such actions. our debt or other financing arrangements contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose operating and financial restrictions on us. there also is a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio contained in our u.s. abl facility that is applicable if availability under the facility falls below certain levels. we currently are in compliance with all of our restrictive and financial covenants; however, the ability to meet financial requirements can be affected by events beyond our control and, over time, these covenants may not be satisfied. a breach of covenants of or the failure to pay principal and interest when due under our debt or other financing could result in a default or cross-default under all or some of those instruments. any such default could result in an acceleration of all amounts outstanding under all facilities, and could relieve counterparties of their obligations to fund or otherwise make advances. without waivers from the parties to our financing arrangements, any such default would have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to operate. a substantial portion of our shares are owned by a few persons, and their interests in lyondellbasell industries n.v. may conflict with other stakeholders interests. three shareholders collectively own approximately 52% of our outstanding ordinary shares. under dutch law, there are no quorum requirements for shareholder voting and most matters are approved or adopted by a majority of votes cast. as a result, as long as these shareholders or any other substantial shareholder own, directly or indirectly, a substantial portion of our outstanding shares, they will be able to significantly influence all matters requiring shareholder approval, including amendments to our articles of association, the election of directors, significant corporate transactions, dividend payments and other matters. these shareholders may have interests that conflict with other shareholders and actions may be taken that other shareholders do not view as beneficial. additionally, each of these three shareholders is party to a nomination agreement that entitles the shareholder cause our supervisory board to nominate for election members to our supervisory board for so long as the shareholder owns specified percentages of our ordinary shares. we are subject to dutch law and the rights of our ordinary shareholders may be different from those rights associated with companies governed by other laws. as a result of being organized under the laws of the netherlands, our corporate structure as well as the rights and obligations of our ordinary shareholders may be different from the rights and obligations of shareholders in companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. resolutions of the general meeting of shareholders may be taken with majorities different from the majorities required for adoption of equivalent resolutions in, for example, delaware companies. additionally, like other dutch companies, our articles of association and our board charter contain control-enhancing rights that may have the effect of preventing, discouraging or delaying a change of control. if we were classified as a controlled foreign corporation, any 10% u.s. shareholders may be responsible for u.s. income taxes on a pro-rata share of our income. if the sum of the percentage ownership held by all of our 10% u.s. shareholders (as determined under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended ( irc )) exceeds 50% of our ordinary shares, we would be classified as a controlled foreign corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. in the event such a classification were made, all 10% u.s. shareholders would be subject to taxation under subpart f of the irc, which could require such 10% u.s. shareholders to pay u.s. federal income taxes on a pro rata portion of our income, even in the absence of any distribution of such income. 40 table of contents based on information currently available to us, we do not believe we are a controlled foreign corporation at this time. u.s. anti-inversion rules may apply to lyondellbasell industries n.v. resulting in certain adverse u.s. federal income tax consequences. the united states internal revenue service ( irs ) could seek to apply section 7874 of the irc to treat lyondellbasell industries n.v. as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes or, alternatively, it could seek to impose u.s. federal income tax on certain income of our u.s. subsidiaries. such an application would be based upon the value of stock issued in our emergence from chapter 11 that the former creditors and shareholders of our top u.s. holding company and its direct and indirect subsidiaries received by reason of holding claims against those entities. treatment as a u.s. corporation could result in significantly increased u.s. federal income tax liability to us. application of the alternative could impose u.s. federal income tax on our u.s. subsidiaries. although no assurance can be given that the irs would not take a contrary position regarding section 7874 application or that such position, if asserted, would not be sustained, we believe that the stock issued in connection with our emergence from the bankruptcy cases that is attributable to the value of the claims against our companies outside the u.s. group makes a section 7874 inapplicable to us. in addition, we believe that strong arguments can be made that section 7874 should not in any event apply to us because of the substantial business activities that we and our affiliates conduct and have historically conducted in the netherlands. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for discussion of lyondellbasell n.v. management of commodity price risk, foreign currency exposure and interest rate risk through its use of derivative instruments and hedging activities. commodity price risk a substantial portion of our products and raw materials are commodities whose prices fluctuate as market supply and demand fundamentals change. accordingly, product margins and the level of our profitability tend to fluctuate with changes in the business cycle. we try to protect against such instability through various business strategies. these include provisions in sales contracts allowing us to pass on higher raw material costs through timely price increases, formula price contracts to transfer or share commodity price risk, and increasing the depth and breadth of our product portfolio. in addition, we selectively use commodity swap, option, and futures contracts with various terms to manage the volatility related to purchases of natural gas and raw materials, as well as product sales. such contracts are generally limited to durations of one year or less. cash-flow hedge accounting may be elected for these derivative transactions; however, in some cases, when the duration of a derivative is short, hedge accounting is not elected. when hedge accounting is not elected, the changes in fair value of these instruments will be recorded in earnings. when hedge accounting is elected, gains and losses on these instruments will be deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income ( aoci ), to the extent that the hedge remains effective, until the underlying transaction is recognized in earnings. market risks created by these derivative instruments and the mark-to-market valuations of open positions are monitored by management. during 2010, we entered into futures contracts with respect to sales of gasoline and heating oil, and purchases of crude oil and sales of gasoline. at december 31, 2010, futures contracts for 28 million gallons of gasoline and heating oil in the notional amount of $70 million, maturing in february 2011, were outstanding. we use value at risk ( var ), stress testing and scenario analysis for risk measurement and control purposes. var estimates the maximum potential loss in fair market values, given a certain move in prices over a certain period of time, using specified confidence levels. using sensitivity analysis and hypothetical unfavorable changes in market prices ranging from 27% to 28% from those in effect at december 31, 2010, the effect would be to reduce net income by less than $1 million. the quantitative information about market risk is necessarily limited because it does not take into account the effects of the underlying operating transactions. foreign exchange risk we manufacture and market our products in a number of countries throughout the world and, as a result, are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. costs in some countries are incurred, in part, in currencies other than the applicable functional currency. we enter into transactions denominated in other than the functional currency and are, therefore, exposed to foreign currency risk on receivables and payables. we maintain risk management control systems intended to monitor foreign currency risk attributable to both the outstanding foreign currency balances and future commitments. the risk management control systems involve the centralization of foreign currency exposure management, offsetting exposures and estimating the expected impacts of changes in foreign currency rates on our earnings. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to reduce the effects of our net currency exchange exposures. for the 2010 successor and predecessor periods and the years ended december 31, 2009 and 2008, other income (loss), net, in the consolidated statements of income reflected a gain of $18 million, losses of $258 million and gains of $123 million and $20 million, respectively, in net exchange rate gains and 76 table of contents losses. for forward contracts that economically hedge recognized monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies, no hedge accounting is applied. changes in the fair value of foreign currency forward contracts are reported in the consolidated statements of income and offset the currency exchange results recognized on the assets and liabilities. interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate risk with respect to variable rate debt. our variable rate debt consists of our $1,750 million u.s. asset-based facility and our receivable securitization facility. at december 31, 2010, there were no outstanding borrowings under these facilities. 77 table of contentsrisk factors ; part i, item 3. legal proceedings ; part ii, item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation s; and notes 2 and 19 to the consolidated financial statements. we have made, and intend to continue to make, the expenditures necessary for compliance with applicable laws and regulations relating to environmental, health and safety matters. we incurred capital expenditures of $114 million in 2014 for health, safety and environmental compliance purposes and improvement programs, and estimate such expenditures to be approximately $190 million in each of 2015 and 2016. while capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance, including compliance with potential legislation and potential regulation related to climate change, cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not believe they will have a material effect on our competitive position. while there can be no assurance that physical risks to our facilities and supply chain due to climate change will not occur in the future, we have reviewed the potential for these risks and have concluded that, because of our facility locations and our existing distribution networks, we do not believe these risks are material in the near term. employee relations as of december 31, 2014, we employed approximately 13,100 full-time and part-time employees around the world. of these, approximately 6,000 were in each of north america and europe, with the remainder in other locations. as of december 31, 2014, approximately 820 of our employees in north america were represented by labor unions. the vast majority of our employees in europe and south america are subject to staff council or works council coverage or collective bargaining agreements. approximately 55% of our unionized north american employees, working at the company houston refinery, were covered by a collective bargaining agreement (cba) between the company and the united steelworkers union (usw), which became effective february 1, 2012 and expired february 1, 2015 at 12:01am. leading up to the expiration of the cba we negotiated diligently and in good faith with the usw, but were notified immediately before the cba expiration date that the international usw had called our employees to strike. we remain committed to negotiating in good faith for a fair and responsible contract. in addition to our own employees, we use the services of contractors in the routine conduct of our businesses. 17 executive officers of the registrant our executive officers as of february 15, 2015 were as follows: name and age significant experience bhavesh v. ( bob ) patel, 48 chief executive officer and chairman of the management board since january 2015. executive vice president, olefins and polyolefins eai and technology from october 2013 and member of the management board from april 2014 to january 2015. senior vice president, olefins and polyolefins eai and technology from november 2010 to october 2013. senior vice president, olefins and polyolefins americas from march 2010 to june 2011. general manager, olefins and ngls of chevron phillips chemical company from 2009 to 2010. karyn f. ovelmen, 51 executive vice president and chief financial officer since october 2011 and member of the management board since april 2014. executive vice president and chief financial officer of petroplus holdings ag from 2006 to 2010. (1) craig b. glidden, 57 executive vice president and chief legal officer since august 2009 and member of the management board since april 2014. senior vice president, legal and public affairs, general counsel and corporate secretary of chevron phillips chemical company from april 2004 to august 2009. timothy d. roberts, 53 executive vice president, olefins and polyolefins global since january 2015 and member of the management board since april 2014. executive vice president, olefins and polyolefins americas from october 2013 to january 2015. senior vice president, olefins and polyolefins americas from june 2011 to october 2013. vice president of planning and development for chevron phillips chemical from february 2011 to may 2011. president and ceo of americas styrenics llc, a joint venture between the dow chemical company and chevron phillips chemical, from may 2008 to january 2011. (1) in january 2012, petroplus holdings ag filed an insolvency petition in switzerland. 18 name and age significant experience kevin w. brown, 57 executive vice president, manufacturing and refining since january 2015. senior vice president, refining from october 2009 to january 2015. director of sinclair oil from january 2006 to september 2009. executive vice president, operations of sinclair oil from june 2004 to september 2009. massimo covezzi, 57 senior vice president, research and development since january 2008. patrick d. quarles, 47 executive vice president, intermediates &amp; derivatives, supply chain &amp; procurement since january 2015 and member of the management board since april 2014. senior vice president, intermediates &amp; derivatives from september 2009 to january 2015. senior vice president, propylene oxide &amp; derivatives from january 2009 to september 2009. michael vandersnick, 50 senior vice president, manufacturing eai since july 2012. site manager of the company channelview, matagorda, chocolate bayou and bayport, texas plants from 2004 to 2012. sergey vasnetsov, 51 senior vice president, strategic planning &amp; transactions since august 2010. managing director of equity research at barclays capital from 1999 to 2010. jacquelyn h. wolf, 53 senior vice president and chief human resources officer since september 2012. senior vice president and chief human resources officer for celanese, inc. from december 2009 to july 2012. executive vice president and chief human resources officer for comerica bank from january 2006 to december 2009. william b. allen, jr., 50 vice president, finance since february 2013 and principle accounting officer since april 2013. vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer of albemarle corporation from 2009 to 2013. chief financial officer of albemarle corporation catalysts business segment from 2007 to 2009 and fine chemistry solutions business segment from 2006 to 2007. 19 name and age significant experience lawrence c. somma, 48 vice president, treasurer since october 2013. senior vice president real estate and capital strategy for hyatt hotels corporation from october 2012 to september 2013. senior vice president, treasurer for hyatt hotels corporation from july 2008 to september 2012. samuel l. smolik, 61 vice president, health, safety, environmental and operational excellence since november 2009. vice president, downstream health, safety and environmental of royal dutch shell from 2004 to october 2009. stephen r. wessels, 63 vice president, tax since september 2014. chief tax counsel from january 2010 to september 2014. description of properties our principal manufacturing facilities as of december 31, 2014 are set forth below, and are identified by the principal segment or segments using the facility. all of the facilities are wholly owned, except as otherwise noted. location segment principal products americas bayport (pasadena), texas i&amp;d eo, ethylene glycol and other eo derivatives bayport (pasadena), texas(1) i&amp;d po, pg, pge, tba and isobutylene bayport (pasadena), texas o&amp;p americas pp and catalloy process resins channelview, texas(2) o&amp;p americas ethylene, propylene, butadiene, benzene and toluene refining alkylate channelview, texas(1)(2)(3) i&amp;d isopropyl alcohol, po, bdo, sm, isobutylene, methanol, etbe and mtbe chocolate bayou, texas o&amp;p americas pe (hdpe) clinton, iowa o&amp;p americas ethylene and propylene, pe (ldpe and hdpe) corpus christi, texas o&amp;p americas ethylene, propylene, butadiene and benzene ensenada, argentina o&amp;p americas pp ensenada, argentina o&amp;p eai pp compounds houston, texas refining gasoline, diesel, jet fuel and lube oils la porte, texas(4) o&amp;p americas ethylene and propylene pe (ldpe and lldpe) la porte, texas(4)(5) i&amp;d vam, acetic acid and methanol lake charles, louisiana o&amp;p americas pp and catalloy process resins matagorda, texas o&amp;p americas pe (hdpe) 20 location segment principal products morris, illinois o&amp;p americas pe (ldpe and lldpe) victoria, texas o&amp;p americas pe (hdpe) europe bayreuth, germany o&amp;p eai pp compounds berre l etang, france o&amp;p eai ethylene, propylene, butadiene, pp and pe (ldpe) botlek, rotterdam, the netherlands i&amp;d po, pg, pge, tba, isobutylene, bdo, mtbe and etbe brindisi, italy o&amp;p eai pp ferrara, italy o&amp;p eai pp and catalloy process resins technology polyolefin catalysts fos-sur-mer, france i&amp;d po, pg, tba, mtbe and etbe frankfurt, germany o&amp;p eai pe (hdpe) technology polyolefin catalysts knapsack, germany o&amp;p eai pp and pp compounds ludwigshafen, germany technology polyolefin catalysts maasvlakte (near rotterdam), the netherlands(6) i&amp;d po and sm moerdijk, the netherlands o&amp;p eai catalloy process resins and pb-1 m&uuml;nchsm&uuml;nster, germany o&amp;p eai ethylene, propylene, pe (hdpe) tarragona, spain(7) o&amp;p eai pp and pp compounds wesseling, germany o&amp;p eai ethylene, propylene and butadiene, pp and pe (hdpe and ldpe) asia pacific geelong, australia o&amp;p eai pp the facility is located on leased land. (1) the bayport po/tba plants and the channelview po/sm i plant are held by the u.s. po joint venture between bayer and lyondell chemical. these plants are located on land leased by the u.s. po joint venture. (2) equistar chemicals, lp operates a styrene maleic anhydride unit and a polybutadiene unit, which are owned by an unrelated party and are located within the channelview facility on property leased from equistar chemicals, lp. (3) unrelated equity investors hold a minority interest in the po/sm ii plant at the channelview facility. (4) the la porte facilities are on contiguous property. (5) the la porte methanol facility is owned by la porte methanol company, a partnership owned 85% by us. (6) the maasvlakte plant is owned by the european po joint venture and is located on land leased by the european po joint venture. (7) the tarragona pp facility is located on leased land; the compounds facility is located on co-owned land. 21 other locations and properties we maintain executive offices in london, the united kingdom, rotterdam, the netherlands and houston, texas. we maintain research facilities in lansing, michigan; channelview, texas; cincinnati, ohio; ferrara, italy and frankfurt, germany. our asia pacific headquarters are in hong kong. we also have technical support centers in bayreuth, germany; geelong, australia; and tarragona, spain. we have various sales facilities worldwide. website access to sec reports our internet website address is http://www.lyb.com . information contained on our internet website is not part of this report on form 10-k. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are available on our website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with, or furnished to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission. alternatively, you may access these reports at the sec website at http://www.sec.gov. item 1a. risk factors. you should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k. each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. our business, including our results of operations and reputation, could be adversely affected by safety or product liability issues. failure to appropriately manage safety, human health, product liability and environmental risks associated with our products, product life cycles and production processes could adversely impact employees, communities, stakeholders, our reputation and our results of operations. public perception of the risks associated with our products and production processes could impact product acceptance and influence the regulatory environment in which we operate. while we have procedures and controls to manage safety risks, issues could be created by events outside of our control, including natural disasters, severe weather events and acts of sabotage. our operations are subject to risks inherent in chemical and refining businesses, and we could be subject to liabilities for which we are not fully insured or that are not otherwise mitigated. we maintain property, business interruption, product, general liability, casualty and other types of insurance that we believe are in accordance with customary industry practices. however, we are not fully insured against all potential hazards incident to our business, including losses resulting from natural disasters, wars or terrorist acts. changes in insurance market conditions have caused, and may in the future cause, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies to increase substantially and, in some instances, for certain insurance to become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. if we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, we might not be able to finance the amount of the uninsured liability on terms acceptable to us or at all, and might be obligated to divert a significant portion of our cash flow from normal business operations. further, because a part of our business involves licensing polyolefin process technology, our licensees are exposed to similar risks involved in the manufacture and marketing of polyolefins. hazardous incidents involving our licensees, if they do result or are perceived to result from use of our technologies, may harm our reputation, threaten our relationships with other licensees and/or lead to customer attrition and financial losses. our policy of covering these risks through contractual limitations of liability and indemnities and through 22 insurance may not always be effective. as a result, our financial condition and results of operation would be adversely affected, and other companies with competing technologies may have the opportunity to secure a competitive advantage. our ability to source raw materials, including crude oil, may be adversely affected by political instability, civil disturbances or other governmental actions. we obtain a substantial portion of our principal raw materials from sources in north africa, the middle east, mexico and south america that may be less politically stable than other areas in which we conduct business, such as europe or the u.s. political instability, civil disturbances and actions by governments in these areas are likely to substantially increase the price and decrease the supply of raw materials necessary for our operations, which will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. recently, increased incidents of civil unrest, including terrorist attacks and demonstrations that have been marked by violence, have occurred in a number of countries in north africa and the middle east. some political regimes in these countries are threatened or have changed as a result of such unrest. political instability and civil unrest could continue to spread in the region and involve other areas. such unrest, if it continues to spread or grow in intensity, could lead to civil wars, regional conflicts, or regime changes resulting in governments that are hostile to countries in which we conduct substantial business, such as in europe, the u.s., or their respective allies. a substantial decrease in the price of crude oil may adversely impact our results of operations. energy costs generally follow price trends of crude oil and natural gas. these price trends may be highly volatile and cyclical. in the past, raw material and energy costs have experienced significant fluctuations that adversely affected our business segments results of operations. for example, we continue to benefit from the favorable ratio of u.s. natural gas prices to crude oil prices. however, if the price of crude oil decreases relative to u.s. natural gas prices or if the demand for natural gas and ngls increases, this may have a negative result on our results of operations. costs and limitations on supply of raw materials and energy may result in increased operating expenses. the costs of raw materials and energy represent a substantial portion of our operating expenses. due to the significant competition we face and the commodity nature of many of our products we are not always able to pass on raw material and energy cost increases to our customers. when we do have the ability to pass on the cost increases, we are not always able to do so quickly enough to avoid adverse impacts on our results of operations. cost increases for raw materials also may increase working capital needs, which could reduce our liquidity and cash flow. even if we increase our sales prices to reflect rising raw material and energy costs, demand for products may decrease as customers reduce their consumption or use substitute products, which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. in addition, producers in natural gas cost-advantaged regions, such as the middle east and north america, benefit from the lower prices of natural gas and ngls. competition from producers in these regions may cause us to reduce exports from europe and elsewhere. any such reductions may increase competition for product sales within europe and other markets, which can result in lower margins in those regions. for some of our raw materials and utilities there are a limited number of suppliers and, in some cases, the supplies are specific to the particular geographic region in which a facility is located. it is also common in the chemical and refining industries for a facility to have a sole, dedicated source for its utilities, such as steam, electricity and gas. having a sole or limited number of suppliers may limit our negotiating power, particularly in the case of rising raw material costs. any new supply agreements we enter into may not have terms as favorable as those contained in our current supply agreements. additionally, there is growing concern over the reliability of water sources, including around the texas gulf coast where several of our facilities are located. the decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result of population growth, drought or regulation could negatively impact our operations. 23 if our raw material or utility supplies were disrupted, our businesses may incur increased costs to procure alternative supplies or incur excessive downtime, which would have a direct negative impact on plant operations. disruptions of supplies may occur as a result of transportation issues including, but not limited to, as a result of natural disasters and water levels that can affect the operations of vessels, barges, rails, trucks and pipeline traffic. these risks are particularly prevalent in the u.s. gulf coast area. additionally, the export of ngls from the u.s., greater restrictions on hydraulic fracturing or the lifting by the u.s. government of the ban on u.s. crude oil exports could restrict the availability of our raw materials, thereby increasing our costs. with increased volatility in raw material costs, our suppliers could impose more onerous terms on us, resulting in shorter payment cycles and increasing our working capital requirements. economic disruptions and downturns in general, and particularly continued economic uncertainty in europe or economic turmoil in emerging markets, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. our results of operations can be materially affected by adverse conditions in the financial markets and depressed economic conditions generally. economic downturns in the businesses and geographic areas in which we sell our products substantially reduce demand for our products and result in decreased sales volumes and increased credit risk. recessionary environments adversely affect our business because demand for our products is reduced, particularly from our customers in industrial markets generally and the automotive and housing industries specifically, and may result in higher costs of capital. a significant portion of our revenues and earnings are derived from our business in europe, including southern europe. in addition, most of our european transactions and assets, including cash reserves and receivables, are denominated in euros. europe recovery from the economic crisis has continued to be uneven, slow and modest. if the crisis re-emerges or meaningful recovery does not materialize across europe, there will likely be a continued negative effect on our european business, as well as the businesses of our european customers, suppliers and partners. in addition, if the crisis leads to a significant devaluation of the euro, the value of our financial assets that are denominated in euros would be significantly reduced when translated to u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. we also derive significant revenues from our business in emerging markets, particularly the emerging markets in asia and brazil. any broad-based downturn in these emerging markets, or in a key market such as china, could require us to reduce export volumes into these markets and could also require us to divert product sales to less profitable markets. any of these conditions could ultimately harm our overall business, prospects, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. the cyclicality and volatility of the industries in which we participate may cause significant fluctuations in our operating results. our business operations are subject to the cyclical and volatile nature of the supply-demand balance in the chemical and refining industries. our future operating results are expected to continue to be affected by this cyclicality and volatility. the chemical and refining industries historically have experienced alternating periods of capacity shortages, causing prices and profit margins to increase, followed by periods of excess capacity, resulting in oversupply, declining capacity utilization rates and declining prices and profit margins. in addition to changes in the supply and demand for products, changes in energy prices and other worldwide economic conditions can cause volatility. these factors result in significant fluctuations in profits and cash flow from period to period and over business cycles. new capacity additions in asia, the middle east and north america may lead to periods of oversupply and lower profitability. a sizable number of expansions have been announced in north america. the timing and extent of any changes to currently prevailing market conditions are uncertain and supply and demand may be unbalanced at any time. as a consequence, we are unable to accurately predict the extent or duration of future industry cycles or their effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 24 we sell products in highly competitive global markets and face significant price pressures. we sell our products in highly competitive global markets. due to the commodity nature of many of our products, competition in these markets is based primarily on price and, to a lesser extent, on product performance, product quality, product deliverability, reliability of supply and customer service. generally, we are not able to protect our market position for these products by product differentiation and may not be able to pass on cost increases to our customers due to the significant competition in our business. in addition, we face increased competition from companies that may have greater financial resources and different cost structures or strategic goals than us. these include large integrated oil companies (some of which also have chemical businesses), government-owned businesses, and companies that receive subsidies or other government incentives to produce certain products in a specified geographic region. increased competition from these companies, especially in our olefin and refining businesses, could limit our ability to increase product sales prices in response to raw material and other cost increases, or could cause us to reduce product sales prices to compete effectively, which could reduce our profitability. competitors that have greater financial resources than us may be able to invest significant capital into their businesses, including expenditures for research and development. in addition, specialty products we produce may become commoditized over time. increased competition could result in lower prices or lower sales volumes, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. interruptions of operations at our facilities may result in liabilities or lower operating results. we own and operate large-scale facilities. our operating results are dependent on the continued operation of our various production facilities and the ability to complete construction and maintenance projects on schedule. interruptions at our facilities may materially reduce the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility, or our business as a whole, during and after the period of such operational difficulties. in the past, we had to shut down plants on the u.s. gulf coast, including the temporary shutdown of our houston refinery, as a result of hurricanes striking the texas coast. in addition, because the houston refinery is our only refining operation, an outage at the refinery could have a particularly negative impact on our operating results. unlike our chemical and polymer production facilities, which may have sufficient excess capacity to mitigate the negative impact of lost production at other facilities, we do not have the ability to increase refining production elsewhere in the u.s. although we take precautions to enhance the safety of our operations and minimize the risk of disruptions, our operations are subject to hazards inherent in chemical manufacturing and refining and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes. these potential hazards include: pipeline leaks and ruptures; explosions; fires; severe weather and natural disasters; mechanical failure; unscheduled downtimes; supplier disruptions; labor shortages or other labor difficulties; transportation interruptions; 25 increased restrictions on, or the unavailability of, water for use at our manufacturing sites or for the transport of our products or raw materials; remediation complications; chemical and oil spills; discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases; shipment of incorrect or off-specification product to customers; storage tank leaks; other environmental risks; and terrorist acts. some of these hazards may cause severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment or personal injury and loss of life and may result in suspension of operations or the shutdown of affected facilities. increased it security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to our systems, networks, products, facilities and services. increased global information security threats and more sophisticated, targeted computer crime pose a risk to the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data, operations and infrastructure. while we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training, comprehensive monitoring of our networks and systems, and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our employees, systems, networks, products, facilities and services remain potentially vulnerable to sophisticated espionage or continual cyber-assault. depending on their nature and scope, such threats could potentially lead to the compromise of confidential information, improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitiveness and results of operations. we operate internationally and are subject to exchange rate fluctuations, exchange controls, political risks and other risks relating to international operations. we operate internationally and are subject to the risks of doing business on a global level. these risks include fluctuations in currency exchange rates, economic instability and disruptions, restrictions on the transfer of funds and the imposition of duties and tariffs. additional risks from our multinational business include transportation delays and interruptions, war, terrorist activities, epidemics, pandemics, political instability, import and export controls, changes in governmental policies, labor unrest and current and changing regulatory environments. we generate revenues from export sales and operations that may be denominated in currencies other than the relevant functional currency. exchange rates between these currencies and functional currencies in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may do so in the future. we also could hedge certain revenues and costs using derivative instruments to minimize the impact of changes in the exchange rates of those currencies compared to the respective functional currencies. it is possible that fluctuations in exchange rates will result in reduced operating results. additionally, we operate with the objective of having our worldwide cash available in the locations where it is needed, including the united kingdom for our parent company significant cash obligations as a result of dividend and interest payments. it is possible that we may not always be able to provide cash to other jurisdictions when needed or that such transfers of cash could be subject to additional taxes, including withholding taxes. our operating results could be negatively affected by the global laws, rules and regulations, as well as political environments, in the jurisdictions in which we operate. there could be reduced demand for our products, decreases in the prices at which we can sell our products and disruptions of production or other operations. 26 additionally, there may be substantial capital and other costs to comply with regulations and/or increased security costs or insurance premiums, any of which could reduce our operating results. we obtain a substantial portion of our principal raw materials from international sources that are subject to these same risks. our compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations to which we may be subject could be challenged. furthermore, these laws may be modified, the result of which may be to prevent or limit subsidiaries from transferring cash to us. furthermore, we are subject to certain existing, and may be subject to possible future, laws that limit or may limit our activities while some of our competitors may not be subject to such laws, which may adversely affect our competitiveness. changes in tax laws and regulations could affect our tax rate and our results of operations. we are a tax resident in the united kingdom and are subject to the united kingdom corporate income tax system. however, as a holding company, our tax obligations are primarily incurred in the various jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate. recently, there has been an increase in attention, both in the u.s. and in europe, to the tax practices of multinational companies. such attention may result in legislative changes that could affect our tax rate. in addition, certain jurisdictions in which we conduct business and incur a tax liability are considering proposals to change their tax laws. while we are not aware of any impending changes to legislation or tax regulations, any change in our tax rate would impact our results of operations. failure to comply with the foreign corrupt practices act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws may have an adverse effect on us. our international operations require us to comply with a number of u.s. and international laws and regulations, including those involving anti-bribery and anti-corruption. in order to effectively operate in certain foreign jurisdictions, circumstances may require that we establish joint ventures with local operators or find strategic partners. as an issuer with securities listed on a united states stock exchange, we are subject to the regulations imposed by the foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa), which generally prohibits issuers and their intermediaries (including strategic or local partners or agents, even if those partners or agents are not themselves subject to the fcpa or other similar laws) from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or obtaining an improper business benefit. we have an ongoing program to promote compliance with the fcpa and other similar anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. any determination that we have violated the fcpa or other similar laws could have a material effect on our business, results of operations, and cash flows. many of our businesses depend on our intellectual property. our future success will depend in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, and our inability to do so could reduce our ability to maintain our competitiveness and margins. we have a significant worldwide patent portfolio of issued and pending patents. these patents, together with proprietary technical know-how, are significant to our competitive position, particularly with regard to po, performance chemicals, petrochemicals, and polymers, including process technologies such as spheripol , spherizone , hostalen , spherilene , lupotech t and avant catalyst family technology rights. we rely on the patent, copyright and trade secret laws of the countries in which we operate to protect our investment in research and development, manufacturing and marketing. however, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without authorization. proceedings to protect these rights could be costly, and we may not prevail. the protection afforded by patents varies from country to country and depends upon the type of patent and its scope of coverage. while a presumption of validity exists with respect to patents issued to us, our patents may 27 be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. as patents expire, the products and processes described and claimed under those patents become generally available for use by competitors. our continued growth strategy may bring us to regions of the world where intellectual property protection may be limited and difficult to enforce. in addition, patent rights may not prevent our competitors from developing, using or selling products that are similar or functionally equivalent to our products. moreover, our competitors or other third parties may obtain patents that restrict or preclude our ability to lawfully produce or sell our products in a competitive manner, which could result in significantly lower revenues, reduced profit margins or loss of market share. we also rely upon unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. while it is our policy to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, these confidentiality agreements may be breached, may not always be executed, may not provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies may not be available. additionally, others could obtain knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development or other access by legal or illegal means. the failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our processes, apparatuses, technology, trade secrets or proprietary know-how could result in significantly lower revenues, reduced profit margins and cash flows and/or loss of market share. we also may be subject to claims that our technology, patents or other intellectual property infringes on a third party intellectual property rights. unfavorable resolution of these claims could result in restrictions on our ability to deliver the related service or in a settlement that could be material to us. shared control or lack of control of joint ventures may delay decisions or actions regarding the joint ventures. a portion of our operations are conducted through joint ventures, where control may be exercised by or shared with unaffiliated third parties. we cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners, including any nonperformance, default or bankruptcy of joint venture partners. the joint ventures that we do not control may also lack adequate internal controls systems or financial reporting systems to provide adequate and timely information for our reporting purposes. in the event that any of our joint venture partners do not observe their obligations, it is possible that the affected joint venture would not be able to operate in accordance with our business plans. as a result, we could be required to increase our level of commitment in order to give effect to such plans. differences in views among the joint venture participants also may result in delayed decisions or in failures to agree on major matters, potentially adversely affecting the business and operations of the joint ventures and in turn our business and operations. we cannot predict with certainty the extent of future costs under environmental, health and safety and other laws and regulations, and cannot guarantee they will not be material. we may face liability arising out of the normal course of business, including alleged personal injury or property damage due to exposure to chemicals or other hazardous substances at our current or former facilities or chemicals that we manufacture, handle or own. in addition, because our products are components of a variety of other end-use products, we, along with other members of the chemical industry, are subject to potential claims related to those end-use products. any substantial increase in the success of these types of claims could negatively affect our operating results. we (together with the industries in which we operate) are subject to extensive national, regional, state and local environmental laws, regulations, directives, rules and ordinances concerning emissions to the air; discharges onto land or surface waters or into groundwater; and 28 the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials. many of these laws and regulations provide for substantial fines and potential criminal sanctions for violations. some of these laws and regulations are subject to varying and conflicting interpretations. in addition, some of these laws and regulations require us to meet specific financial responsibility requirements. any substantial liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. although we have compliance programs and other processes intended to ensure compliance with all such regulations, we are subject to the risk that our compliance with such regulations could be challenged. non-compliance with certain of these regulations could result in the incurrence of additional costs, penalties or assessments that could be material. our industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and existing, or future regulations may restrict our operations, increase our costs of operations or require us to make additional capital expenditures. compliance with regulatory requirements could result in higher operating costs, such as regulatory requirements relating to emissions, the security of our facilities, and the transportation, export or registration of our products. we generally expect that regulatory controls worldwide will become increasingly more demanding, but cannot accurately predict future developments. increasingly strict environmental laws and inspection and enforcement policies, could affect the handling, manufacture, use, emission or disposal of products, other materials or hazardous and non-hazardous waste. stricter environmental, safety and health laws, regulations and enforcement policies could result in increased operating costs or capital expenditures to comply with such laws and regulations. additionally, we are required to have permits for our businesses and are subject to licensing regulations. these permits and licenses are subject to renewal, modification and in some circumstances, revocation. further, the permits and licenses are often difficult, time consuming and costly to obtain and could contain conditions that limit our operations. we may incur substantial costs to comply with climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives. there has been a broad range of proposed or promulgated state, national and international laws focusing on greenhouse gas ( ghg ) reduction. these proposed or promulgated laws apply or could apply in countries where we have interests or may have interests in the future. laws in this field continue to evolve and, while they are likely to be increasingly widespread and stringent, at this stage it is not possible to accurately estimate either a timetable for implementation or our future compliance costs relating to implementation. within the framework of the eu emissions trading scheme ( ets ), we were allocated certain allowances of carbon dioxide for the affected plants of our european sites for the period from 2008 to 2012 ( ets ii period ). the ets ii period did not bring additional cost to us as the allowance allocation was sufficient to cover the actual emissions of the affected plants. we were able to build an allowance surplus during the ets ii period which has been banked to the scheme for the period from 2013 to 2020 ( ets iii period ). we expect to incur additional costs for the ets iii period, despite the allowance surplus accrued over the ets ii period, as allowance allocations have been reduced for the ets iii period and more of our plants are affected by the scheme. we maintain an active hedging strategy to cover these additional costs. we expect to incur additional costs in relation to future carbon or ghg emission trading schemes. in the u.s., the environmental protection agency (the epa ) has promulgated federal ghg regulations under the clean air act affecting certain sources. the epa has issued mandatory ghg reporting requirements, requirements to obtain ghg permits for certain industrial plants and proposals for ghg performance standards for some facilities. the recent epa action could be a precursor to further federal regulation of carbon dioxide emissions and other greenhouse gases, and may affect the outcome of other climate change lawsuits pending in 29 u.s. courts in a manner unfavorable to our industry. in any event, additional regulation may be forthcoming at the u.s. federal or state level with respect to ghg emissions, and such regulation could result in the creation of additional costs in the form of taxes or required acquisition or trading of emission allowances. compliance with these or other changes in laws, regulations and obligations that create a ghg emissions trading scheme or ghg reduction policies generally could significantly increase our costs or reduce demand for products we produce. additionally, compliance with these regulations may result in increased permitting necessary for the operation of our business or for any of our growth plans. difficulties in obtaining such permits could have an adverse effect on our future growth. therefore, any future potential regulations and legislation could result in increased compliance costs, additional operating restrictions or delays in implementing growth projects or other capital investments, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we may be required to record material charges against our earnings due to any number of events that could cause impairments to our assets. we may be required to reduce production at or idle facilities for extended periods of time or exit certain businesses as a result of the cyclical nature of our industry. specifically, oversupplies of or lack of demand for particular products or high raw material prices may cause us to reduce production. we may choose to reduce production at certain facilities because we have off-take arrangements at other facilities, which make any reductions or idling unavailable at those facilities. any decision to permanently close facilities or exit a business likely would result in impairment and other charges to earnings. temporary outages at our facilities can last for several quarters and sometimes longer. these outages could cause us to incur significant costs, including the expenses of maintaining and restarting these facilities. in addition, even though we may reduce production at facilities, we may be required to continue to purchase or pay for utilities or raw materials under take-or-pay supply agreements. our business is capital intensive and we rely on cash generated from operations and external financing to fund our growth and ongoing capital needs. limitations on access to external financing could adversely affect our operating results. we require significant capital to operate our current business and fund our growth strategy. moreover, interest payments, dividends and the expansion of our business or other business opportunities may require significant amounts of capital. we believe that our cash from operations currently will be sufficient to meet these needs. however, if we need external financing, our access to credit markets and pricing of our capital is dependent upon maintaining sufficient credit ratings from credit rating agencies and the state of the capital markets generally. there can be no assurances that we would be able to incur indebtedness on terms we deem acceptable, and it is possible that the cost of any financings could increase significantly, thereby increasing our expenses and decreasing our net income. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or raise adequate external financing, including as a result of significant disruptions in the global credit markets, we could be forced to restrict our operations and growth opportunities, which could adversely affect our operating results. we may use our five-year, $2 billion revolving credit facility, which backs our commercial paper program, to meet our cash needs, to the extent available. as of december 31, 2014, we had no borrowings or letters of credit outstanding under the facility and $262 million outstanding under our commercial paper program, leaving an unused and available credit capacity of $1,712 million. we may also meet our cash needs by selling receivables under our $1,000 million u.s. accounts receivable securitization facility or our 450 million european accounts receivable securitization facility. in the event of a default under our credit facility or any of our senior notes, we could be required to immediately repay all outstanding borrowings and make cash deposits as collateral for all obligations the facility supports, which we may not be able to do. any default under any of our credit arrangements could cause a default under many of our other credit agreements and debt instruments. 30 without waivers from lenders party to those agreements, any such default could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to operate. legislation and regulatory initiatives could lead to a decrease in demand for our products. new or revised governmental regulations and independent studies relating to the effect of our products on health, safety and the environment may affect demand for our products and the cost of producing our products. initiatives by governments and private interest groups will potentially require increased toxicological testing and risk assessments of a wide variety of chemicals, including chemicals used or produced by us. for example, in the united states, the national toxicology program ( ntp ) is a federal interagency program that seeks to identify and select for study chemicals and other substances to evaluate potential human health hazards. in the european union, the regulation on registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemicals ( reach ) is regulation designed to identify the intrinsic properties of chemical substances, assess hazards and risks of the substances, and identify and implement the risk management measures to protect humans and the environment. assessments under ntp, reach or similar programs or regulations in other jurisdictions may result in heightened concerns about the chemicals we use or produce and may result in additional requirements being placed on the production, handling, labeling or use of those chemicals. such concerns and additional requirements could also increase the cost incurred by our customers to use our chemical products and otherwise limit the use of these products, which could lead to a decrease in demand for these products. such a decrease in demand could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain key employees and the identification and development of talent to succeed senior management. our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, and we rely heavily on our management team. the inability to recruit and retain key personnel or the unexpected loss of key personnel may adversely affect our operations. in addition, because of the reliance on our management team, our future success depends in part on our ability to identify and develop talent to succeed senior management. the retention of key personnel and appropriate senior management succession planning will continue to be critically important to the successful implementation of our strategies. changes in market conditions may impact any stock repurchases. to the extent we engage in stock repurchases, such activity is subject to market conditions, such as the trading prices for our stock. management, in its discretion, will determine the timing and manner of any repurchases in light of prevailing market conditions, our available resources and other factors that cannot be predicted. adverse results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect us. we are subject to and may in the future be subject to a variety of legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business. results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. irrespective of its merits, litigation may be both lengthy and disruptive to our operations and may cause significant expenditure and diversion of management attention. we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that could materially adversely affect a portion of our business operations or materially and adversely affect our financial position and our results of operations should we fail to prevail in certain matters. we may not be able to fully or successfully implement our ongoing plans to improve and globally integrate our business processes and functions. we continue to seek ways to drive greater productivity, flexibility and cost savings. in particular, we are working towards the improvement and global integration of our business processes and functions. as part of 31 these efforts, we have been centralizing certain functions, implementing new information technology, and integrating our existing information technology systems. our ongoing implementation of organizational improvements is made more difficult by our need to coordinate geographically dispersed operations. inabilities and delays in implementing improvements can negatively affect our ability to realize projected or expected cost savings. in addition, the process of organizational improvements may cause interruptions of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our businesses. it may also result in the loss of personnel or other labor issues. these issues, as well as any information technology systems failures, also could impede our ability to timely collect and report financial results in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. additionally, from time to time certain aspects of our business processes may be outsourced to third parties. the processes, or the portions thereof, that are outsourced generally will tend to be labor intensive transactional activities. although we make a diligent effort to ensure that all providers of outsourced services observe proper internal control practices and procedures, we cannot assure that failures will not occur. the failure of such third parties to provide adequate services could adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity, or our ability to provide adequate financial and management reporting. significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions relating to pension costs may adversely affect the valuation of pension obligations, the funded status of pension plans, and our pension cost. our pension cost is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure pension obligations, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations at the measurement date and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets may result in corresponding increases and decreases in the value of plan assets, particularly equity securities, or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. any change in key actuarial assumptions, such as the discount rate, would impact the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported funded status of our pension plans as well as the net periodic pension cost in the following fiscal years. certain of our current pension plans could have projected benefit obligations that exceed the fair value of the plan assets. as of december 31, 2014, the aggregate deficit was $953 million. any declines in the fair values of the pension plans assets could require additional payments by us in order to maintain specified funding levels. our pension plans are subject to legislative and regulatory requirements of applicable jurisdictions, which could include, under certain circumstances, local governmental authority to terminate the plan. our operations could be adversely affected by labor relations. the vast majority of our employees located in europe and south america are represented by labor unions and works councils. approximately 820 of our employees located in north america are represented by labor unions. our operations have been in the past, and may be in the future, significantly and adversely affected by strikes, work stoppages and other labor disputes. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for discussion of lyondellbasell industries n.v. management of commodity price risk, foreign currency exposure and interest rate risk through its use of derivative instruments and hedging activities. commodity price risk a substantial portion of our products and raw materials are commodities whose prices fluctuate as market supply and demand fundamentals change. accordingly, product margins and the level of our profitability tend to fluctuate with changes in the business cycle. we try to protect against such instability through various business strategies. these include provisions in sales contracts allowing us to pass on higher raw material costs through timely price increases, formula price contracts to transfer or share commodity price risk, and increasing the depth and breadth of our product portfolio. in addition, we selectively use commodity swap and futures contracts with various terms to manage the volatility related to raw materials and product sales. such contracts are generally limited to durations of one year or less. hedge accounting has not been elected for any of our commodity contracts in any of the periods presented. market risks created by these derivative instruments and the mark-to-market valuations of open positions are considered by management prior to execution and monitored daily. the estimated fair value and notional amounts of our open commodity futures contracts are shown in the table below: december 31, 2014 notional amounts millions of dollars fair value value volumes volume unit maturity dates futures: heating oil $ (1 ) $ 28 15 million gallons january 2015 crude oil 2 million gallons february 2015 $ 1 $ 28 december 31, 2013 notional amounts millions of dollars fair value value volumes volume unit maturity dates futures: gasoline $ (4 ) $ 257 92 million gallons february 2014 - march 2014 heating oil 11 4 million gallons february 2014 crude oil 378 158 million gallons february 2014 - may 2014 $ (4 ) $ 646 67 the decreased level in open futures positions in 2014 is related to our strategies to manage the impact of future movements in the price of gasoline, distillates and crude oil on our realized product margins. we use value at risk ( var ), stress testing and scenario analysis for risk measurement and control purposes. var estimates the maximum potential loss in fair market values, given a certain move in prices over a certain period of time, using specified confidence levels. using sensitivity analysis and hypothetical changes in market prices ranging from 12% to 31%, which represent a three month volatility range of the underlying products, the effect on our pretax income would be less than $1 million. the quantitative information about market risk is necessarily limited because it does not take into account the effects of the underlying operating transactions. foreign exchange risk we manufacture and market our products in a number of countries throughout the world and, as a result, are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we enter into transactions in currencies other than the applicable functional currency. a significant portion of our reporting entities use the euro as their functional currency. our reporting currency is the u.s. dollar. the translation gains or losses that result from the process of translating the euro denominated financial statements to u.s. dollars are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income ( aoci ) until such time as those entities may be liquidated or sold. changes in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro can therefore have a significant impact on comprehensive income. we generally do not attempt to minimize or mitigate the foreign currency risks resulting from the translation of assets and liabilities of non-u.s. operations into our reporting currency. some of our operations enter into transactions denominated in other than their functional currency. this results in exposure to foreign currency risk for financial instruments, including, but not limited to third party and intercompany receivables and payables and intercompany loans. we maintain risk management control practices to monitor the foreign currency risk attributable to our inter-company and third party outstanding foreign currency balances. these practices involve the centralization of our exposure to underlying currencies that are not subject to central bank and/or country specific restrictions. by centralizing most of our foreign currency exposure into one subsidiary, we are able to take advantage of any natural offsets thereby reducing the overall impact of changes in foreign currency rates on our earnings. our policy is to maintain an approximately balanced position in foreign currencies to minimize exchange gains and losses arising from changes in exchange rates. to minimize the effects of our net currency exchange exposures, we enter into foreign currency spot and forward contracts and, in some cases, cross-currency swaps. we also engage in short-term foreign exchange swaps in order to roll certain hedge positions and to make funds available for intercompany financing. our net position in foreign currencies is monitored daily. in 2014, we entered into $2,000 million non-cancellable cross-currency swaps, which we designated as foreign currency cash flow hedges, to reduce the variability in the functional currency equivalent cash flows of certain foreign currency denominated intercompany notes. for a summary of the estimated fair value and notional amounts for our cross-currency swaps outstanding at december 31, 2014, see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. at december 31, 2014 and 2013, a 10% fluctuation compared to the u.s. dollar in the underlying currencies that have no central bank or other currency restrictions would result in an additional impact to earnings of no 68 more than approximately $2 million. a change in the fair value of our cross-currency swaps resulting from a 10% fluctuation in the euro compared to the u.s. dollar, as of december 31, 2014, would have no impact to net income. for 2014, 2013, and 2012, other income (expense), net in the consolidated statements of income reflected a gain of $15 million and losses of $4 million and $21 million, respectively, in net exchange rate gains and losses. for forward contracts, including swap transactions, that economically hedge recognized monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies, no hedge accounting is applied. changes in the fair value of foreign currency forward contracts are reported in the consolidated statements of income and offset the currency exchange results recognized on the assets and liabilities. interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate risk with respect to our fixed and variable rate debt. fluctuations in interest rates impact the fair value of fixed-rate debt as well as pretax earnings stemming from interest expense on variable-rate debt. fixed-rate debt in 2014, we entered into u.s. dollar fixed-for-floating interest rate swaps as part of our interest rate risk management strategy to create a balance of fixed and floating rate debt. these interest rate swaps are designated as fair value hedges. at december 31, 2014, we had outstanding interest rate swap agreements with notional amounts totaling $2,000 million, maturing on april 15, 2019. at december 31, 2014, after giving consideration to the $2,000 million of fixed-rate debt that we have effectively converted to floating through these u.s. dollar fixed-for-floating interest rate swaps, approximately 68% of our debt portfolio, on a gross basis, incurred interest at a fixed-rate and the remaining 32% of the portfolio incurred interest at a variable-rate. we estimate that a 10% change in market interest rates as of december 31, 2014 would change the fair value of our interest rate swaps outstanding and affect our pretax income by approximately $13 million. for additional information related to these interest rate swaps, see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. variable-rate debt our variable rate debt consists of our $2,000 million senior revolving credit facility, our $1,000 million u.s. receivables securitization facility, our 450 million european receivables securitization facility and amounts outstanding under our commercial paper program. at december 31, 2014, there were no outstanding borrowings under our senior revolving credit facility and u.s. and european receivables facilities. we had $262 million of commercial paper outstanding at december 31, 2014. we estimate that a 10% change in interest rates will not have a material impact on earnings. 69risk factors. you should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k. each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. economic downturns and disruptions in financial markets can adversely affect our business and results of operations. our results of operations can be materially affected by adverse conditions in the financial markets and depressed economic conditions generally. economic downturns in the businesses and geographic areas in which we sell our products substantially reduce demand for our products and result in decreased sales volumes. recessionary environments adversely affect our business because demand for our products is reduced, particularly from our customers in industrial markets generally and the automotive and housing industries specifically. deteriorating sovereign debt conditions in europe and the related euro crisis could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. the recent escalation of the european sovereign debt crisis has negatively impacted the capital markets in europe and caused the value of the euro to deteriorate. these conditions have resulted in reduced consumer confidence and spending in many countries in europe, particularly southern europe. a significant portion of our revenues and earnings are derived from our business in europe, including southern europe. in addition, most of our european transactions and assets, including cash reserves and receivables, are denominated in euros. if the european sovereign debt crisis continues or further deteriorates, there will likely be a continued negative effect on our european business, as well as the businesses of our european customers, suppliers and partners. in addition, if the crisis ultimately leads to a significant devaluation of the euro, the value of our financial assets that are denominated in euros would be significantly reduced when translated to u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. any of these conditions could ultimately harm our overall business, prospects, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. 32 table of contents the cyclicality and volatility of the industries in which we participate may cause significant fluctuations in our operating results. our business operations are subject to the cyclical and volatile nature of the supply-demand balance in the chemical and refining industries. our future operating results are expected to continue to be affected by this cyclicality and volatility. the chemical and refining industries historically have experienced alternating periods of capacity shortages, causing prices and profit margins to increase, followed by periods of excess capacity, resulting in oversupply, declining capacity utilization rates and declining prices and profit margins. in addition to changes in the supply and demand for products, changes in energy prices and other worldwide economic conditions can cause volatility. these factors result in significant fluctuations in profits and cash flow from period to period and over business cycles. in addition, new capacity additions in asia, the middle east and north america may lead to periods of oversupply and lower profitability. the timing and extent of any changes to currently prevailing market conditions is uncertain and supply and demand may be unbalanced at any time. as a consequence, we are unable to accurately predict the extent or duration of future industry cycles or their effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we can give no assurances as to any predictions we may make with respect to the timing, extent or duration of future industry cycles. costs and limitations on supply of raw materials and energy may result in increased operating expenses. the costs of raw materials and energy represent a substantial portion of our operating expenses. energy costs generally follow price trends of crude oil and natural gas. these price trends may be highly volatile and cyclical. in the past, raw material and energy costs have experienced significant fluctuations that adversely affected our business segments results of operations. for example, we continue to benefit from the favorable ratio of u.s. natural gas prices to crude oil prices. however, if the price of crude oil decreases relative to u.s. natural gas prices, this may have a negative result on our results of operations. moreover, fluctuations in currency exchange rates can add to this volatility. we are not always able to pass raw material and energy cost increases on to our customers. when we do have the ability to pass on the cost increases, we are not always able to do so quickly enough to avoid adverse impacts on our results of operations. cost increases for raw materials also may increase working capital needs, which could reduce our liquidity and cash flow. even if we increase our sales prices to reflect rising raw material and energy costs, demand for products may decrease as customers reduce their consumption or use substitute products, which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. in addition, producers in natural gas cost-advantaged regions, such as the middle east and north america, benefit from the lower prices of natural gas and ngls. competition from producers in these regions may cause us to reduce exports from europe and elsewhere. any such reductions may increase competition for product sales within europe and other markets, which can result in lower margins in those regions. additionally, there are a limited number of suppliers for some of our raw materials and utilities and, in some cases, the supplies are specific to the particular geographic region in which a facility is located. it is also common in the chemical and refining industries for a facility to have a sole, dedicated source for its utilities, such as steam, electricity and gas. having a sole or limited number of suppliers may limit our negotiating power, particularly in the case of rising raw material costs. any new supply agreements we enter into may not have terms as favorable as those contained in our current supply agreements. if our raw material or utility supplies were disrupted, our businesses may incur increased costs to procure alternative supplies or incur excessive downtime, which would have a direct negative impact on plant operations. for example, hurricanes have in the past negatively affected crude oil and natural gas supplies, as well as supplies of other raw materials, utilities (such as electricity and steam), and industrial gases, contributing to increases in operating costs and, in some cases, disrupting production and causing lost profit opportunities. in addition, hurricane-related disruption of vessel, barge, rail, truck and pipeline traffic in the u.s. gulf coast area would negatively affect shipments of raw materials and product. 33 table of contents with increased volatility in raw material costs, our suppliers could impose more onerous terms on us, resulting in shorter payment cycles and increasing our working capital requirements. we sell products in highly competitive global markets and face significant price pressures. we sell our products in highly competitive global markets. due to the commodity nature of many of our products, competition in these markets is based primarily on price and, to a lesser extent, on product performance, product quality, product deliverability, reliability of supply and customer service. generally, we are not able to protect our market position for these products by product differentiation and may not be able to pass on cost increases to our customers. in addition, we face increased competition from companies that may have greater financial resources and different cost structures or strategic goals than us. these include large integrated oil companies (some of which also have chemical businesses), government-owned businesses, and companies that receive subsidies or other government incentives to produce certain products in a specified geographic region. increased competition from these companies, especially in our olefin and refining businesses, could limit our ability to increase product sales prices in response to raw material and other cost increases, or could cause us to reduce product sales prices to compete effectively, which could reduce our profitability. competitors that have greater financial resources than us may be able to invest significant capital into their businesses, including expenditures for research and development. in addition, specialty products we produce may become commoditized over time. increased competition could result in lower prices or lower sales volumes, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. our ability to source raw materials, including crude oil, may be adversely affected by political instability, civil disturbances or other governmental actions. we obtain a substantial portion of our principal raw materials from sources in north africa, the middle east, and south america that may be less politically stable than other areas in which we conduct business, such as europe or the u.s. political instability, civil disturbances and actions by governments in these areas are likely to substantially increase the price and decrease the supply of feedstocks necessary for our operations, which will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. recently, increased incidents of civil unrest, including demonstrations which have been marked by violence, have occurred in some countries in north africa and the middle east. some political regimes in these countries are threatened or have changed as a result of such unrest. political instability and civil unrest could continue to spread in the region and involve other areas. such unrest, if it continues to spread or grow in intensity, could lead to civil wars, regional conflict, or regime changes resulting in governments that are hostile to countries in which we conduct substantial business, such as europe, the u.s., or their respective allies. interruptions of operations at our facilities may result in liabilities or lower operating results. we own and operate large-scale facilities. our operating results are dependent on the continued operation of our various production facilities and the ability to complete construction and maintenance projects on schedule. interruptions at our facilities may materially reduce the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility, or our business as a whole, during and after the period of such operational difficulties. in the past, we had to shut down plants on the u.s. gulf coast, including the temporary shutdown of our houston refinery, as a result of hurricanes striking the texas coast. in addition, because the houston refinery is our only north american refining operation, an outage at the refinery could have a particularly negative impact on our operating results. unlike our chemical and polymer production facilities, which may have sufficient excess capacity to mitigate the negative impact of lost production at other facilities, we do not have the ability to increase refining production elsewhere in the u.s. 34 table of contents although we take precautions to enhance the safety of our operations and minimize the risk of disruptions, our operations are subject to hazards inherent in chemical manufacturing and refining and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes. these potential hazards include: pipeline leaks and ruptures; explosions; fires; severe weather and natural disasters; mechanical failure; unscheduled downtimes; supplier disruptions; labor shortages or other labor difficulties; transportation interruptions; transportation accidents; remediation complications; chemical and oil spills; discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases; storage tank leaks; other environmental risks; and terrorist acts. some of these hazards may cause severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and may result in suspension of operations or the shutdown of affected facilities. our operations are subject to risks inherent in chemical and refining businesses, and we could be subject to liabilities for which we are not fully insured or that are not otherwise mitigated. we maintain property, business interruption, product, general liability, casualty and other types of insurance, including pollution and legal liability, that we believe are in accordance with customary industry practices. however, we are not fully insured against all potential hazards incident to our business, including losses resulting from natural disasters, war risks or terrorist acts. changes in insurance market conditions have caused, and may in the future cause, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies to increase substantially and, in some instances, for certain insurance to become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. if we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, we might not be able to finance the amount of the uninsured liability on terms acceptable to us or at all, and might be obligated to divert a significant portion of our cash flow from normal business operations. further, because a part of our business involves licensing polyolefin process technology, our licensees are exposed to similar risks involved in the manufacture and marketing of polyolefins. hazardous incidents involving our licensees, if they do result or are perceived to result from use of our technologies, may harm our reputation, 35 table of contents threaten our relationships with other licensees and/or lead to customer attrition and financial losses. our policy of covering these risks through contractual limitations of liability and indemnities and through insurance may not always be effective. as a result, our financial condition and results of operation would be adversely affected, and other companies with competing technologies may have the opportunity to secure a competitive advantage. certain activities related to a former project raise compliance issues under u.s. law. we have identified an agreement related to a former project in kazakhstan under which a payment was made that raises compliance concerns under the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ). we have engaged outside counsel to investigate these activities, under the oversight of the audit committee of the supervisory board, and to evaluate internal controls and compliance policies and procedures. we made a voluntary disclosure of these matters to the u.s. department of justice and are cooperating fully with that agency. we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these matters at this time since our investigations are ongoing. in this respect, we may not have conducted business in compliance with the fcpa and may not have had policies and procedures in place adequate to ensure compliance. therefore, we cannot reasonably estimate a range of liability for any potential penalty resulting from these matters. violations of these laws could result in criminal and civil liabilities and other forms of penalties or sanctions that could be material to us. our operations could be adversely affected by labor relations. the vast majority of our employees located in europe and south america are represented by labor unions and works councils. approximately 900 of our employees located in north america are represented by labor unions. of the represented north american employees, approximately 50% include our employees that are subject to a collective bargaining agreement between houston refining lp and the united steelworkers union, which agreement will expire on january 31, 2015. our operations have been in the past, and may be in the future, significantly and adversely affected by strikes, work stoppages and other labor disputes. we cannot predict with certainty the extent of future costs under environmental, health and safety and other laws and regulations, and cannot guarantee they will not be material. we may face liability arising out of the normal course of business, including alleged personal injury or property damage due to exposure to chemicals or other hazardous substances at our current or former facilities or chemicals that we manufacture, handle or own. in addition, because our products are components of a variety of other end-use products, we, along with other members of the chemical industry, are subject to potential claims related to those end-use products. any substantial increase in the success of these types of claims could negatively affect our operating results. we (together with the industries in which we operate) are subject to extensive national, regional, state and local environmental laws, regulations, directives, rules and ordinances concerning emissions to the air; discharges onto land or surface waters or into groundwater; and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials. many of these laws and regulations provide for substantial fines and potential criminal sanctions for violations. some of these laws and regulations are subject to varying and conflicting interpretations. in addition, some of these laws and regulations require us to meet specific financial responsibility requirements. any substantial liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 36 table of contents although we have compliance programs and other processes intended to ensure compliance with all such regulations, we are subject to the risk that our compliance with such regulations could be challenged. non-compliance with certain of these regulations could result in the incurrence of additional costs, penalties or assessments that could be material. our industry is subject to extensive regulation. existing or future regulations may restrict our operations, increase our costs of operations or require us to make additional capital expenditures and failure to comply with regulations may cause us to incur significant expenses or affect our ability to operate. we are subject to extensive government regulation in the form of national, state and local laws and regulations. these laws and regulations govern all aspects of the operation of our facilities and the transportation and sales of our products. we generally expect that regulatory controls worldwide will become increasingly more demanding and expensive, but cannot accurately predict future developments. in addition, we are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain permits, licenses and certificates with respect to our operations. these permits and licenses are subject to renewal, modification and in some circumstances, revocation. further, the permits and licenses are often difficult, time consuming and costly to obtain and could contain conditions that limit our operations. our failure to comply with regulatory requirements or obtain or maintain necessary permits, licenses and authorizations for the conduct of our business could result in fines or penalties, which may be significant. additionally, any such failure could restrict or otherwise prohibit certain aspects of our operations, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we may incur substantial costs to comply with climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives. there has been a broad range of proposed or promulgated state, national and international laws focusing on greenhouse gas ( ghg ) reduction. these proposed or promulgated laws apply or could apply in countries where we have interests or may have interests in the future. laws in this field continue to evolve and, while they are likely to be increasingly widespread and stringent, at this stage it is not possible to accurately estimate either a timetable for implementation or our future compliance costs relating to implementation. within the framework of eu emissions trading, we were allocated certain allowances of carbon dioxide per year for the affected plants of our european sites for the 2005 to 2007 period. for the second trading period (2008 to 2012), a number of our plants are included in the europe-wide trading system. we expect to incur additional costs as a result of the existing emissions trading scheme and could incur additional costs in relation to any future carbon or other greenhouse gas emission trading schemes. the costs could be higher to the extent that we decide to sell credits that we need in the future. in the u.s., the environmental protection agency (the epa ) has promulgated federal ghg regulations under the clean air act affecting certain sources. the epa has issued mandatory ghg reporting requirements which could lead to further obligations. the recent epa action could be a precursor to further federal regulation of carbon dioxide emissions and other greenhouse gases, and may affect the outcome of other climate change lawsuits pending in u.s. federal courts in a manner unfavorable to our industry. in any event, additional regulation is likely to be forthcoming at the u.s. federal level or the state level with respect to ghg emissions, and such regulation could result in the creation of additional costs in the form of taxes or required acquisition or trading of emission allowances. compliance with these or other changes in laws, regulations and obligations that create a ghg emissions trading scheme or ghg reduction policies generally could significantly increase our costs or reduce demand for products we produce. depending on the nature of potential regulations and legislation, any future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs, additional operating restrictions or delays in implementing growth projects or other capital investments, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 37 table of contents the company business, including its results of operations and reputation, could be adversely affected by process safety issues. failure to appropriately manage safety, human health, product liability and environmental risks associated with the company products, product life cycles and production processes could adversely impact employees, communities, stakeholders, the company reputation and its results of operations. public perception of the risks associated with the company products and production processes could impact product acceptance and influence the regulatory environment in which the company operates. while the company has procedures and controls to manage process safety risks, issues could be created by events outside of its control including natural disasters, severe weather events and acts of sabotage. legislation and regulatory initiatives could lead to a decrease in demand for our products. new or revised governmental regulations and independent studies relating to the effect of our products on health, safety and the environment may affect demand for our products and the cost of producing our products. initiatives by governments and private interest groups will potentially require increased toxicological testing and risk assessments of a wide variety of chemicals, including chemicals used or produced by us. for example, in the united states, the national toxicology program ( ntp ) is a federal interagency program that seeks to identify and select for study chemicals and other substances to evaluate potential human health hazards. in the european commission, reach is regulation designed to identify the intrinsic properties of chemical substances, assess hazards and risks of the substances, and identify and implement the risk management measures to protect humans and the environment. assessments by the ntp, reach or similar programs or regulations in other jurisdictions may result in heightened concerns about the chemicals we use or produce and may result in additional requirements being placed on the production, handling, labeling or use of those chemicals. such concerns and additional requirements could also increase the cost incurred by our customers to use our chemical products and otherwise limit the use of these products, which could lead to a decrease in demand for these products. such a decrease in demand could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. we operate internationally and are subject to exchange rate fluctuations, exchange controls, political risks and other risks relating to international operations. we operate internationally and are subject to the risks of doing business on a global level, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates, transportation delays and interruptions, war, terrorist activities, epidemics, pandemics, political and economic instability and disruptions, restrictions on the transfer of funds, the imposition of duties and tariffs, import and export controls, changes in governmental policies, labor unrest and current and changing regulatory environments. recent demonstrations and popular unrest in portions of the middle east are examples of these events. these events could reduce the demand for our products, decrease the prices at which we can sell our products, disrupt production or other operations, require substantial capital and other costs to comply, and/or increase security costs or insurance premiums, all of which could reduce our operating results. in addition, we obtain a substantial portion of our principal raw materials from international sources that are subject to these same risks. our compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations to which we may be subject could be challenged. furthermore, these laws may be modified, the result of which may be to prevent or limit subsidiaries from transferring cash to us. furthermore, we are subject to certain existing, and may be subject to possible future, laws that limit or may limit our activities while some of our competitors may not be subject to such laws, which may adversely affect our competitiveness. in addition, we generate revenues from export sales and operations that may be denominated in currencies other than the relevant functional currency. exchange rates between these currencies and functional currencies in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may do so in the future. future events, which may significantly increase or 38 table of contents decrease the risk of future movement in currencies in which we conduct our business, cannot be predicted. we also may hedge certain revenues and costs using derivative instruments to minimize the impact of changes in the exchange rates of those currencies compared to the respective functional currencies. it is possible that fluctuations in exchange rates will result in reduced operating results. u.s. anti-inversion rules may apply to lyondellbasell industries n.v. resulting in adverse u.s. federal income tax consequences. the u.s. internal revenue service is examining the company federal income tax returns. as part of that review, the irs is examining whether under section 7874 of the internal revenue code lyondellbasell industries n.v. should be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. the irs also is examining whether section 7874 alternatively applies to certain of the company intercompany transactions that would result in additional u.s. federal income tax of the company u.s. subsidiaries. application of section 7874 in either instance is dependent on the value of our shares issued at emergence from bankruptcy to former creditors of our top u.s. holding company and its direct and indirect subsidiaries in exchange for their claims against those entities. it further would require a determination that the company is not conducting substantial business activities in the netherlands. treatment of lyondellbasell industries n.v. as a u.s. corporation would result in significantly increased tax liability because our worldwide income would be subject to u.s. federal income tax. any such increase likely would have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cashflow. application of section 7874 to our intercompany transactions would, for the 10-year period post emergence, result in the imposition of additional u.s. federal income tax on certain gains of our u.s. subsidiaries from those transactions. the increased taxation of those gains would negatively affect our earnings and cash flows. no assurance can be given that the irs will not determine that section 7874 is applicable to us. further, there can be no assurances that any such position taken by the irs would not be sustained. significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions relating to pension costs may adversely affect the valuation of pension obligations, the funded status of pension plans, and our pension cost. our pension cost is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure pension obligations, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations at the measurement date and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets may result in corresponding increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets, particularly equity securities, or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. any change in key actuarial assumptions, such as the discount rate, would impact the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported funded status of our pension plans as well as the net periodic pension cost in the following fiscal years. certain of our current pension plans have projected benefit obligations that exceed the fair value of the plan assets. as of december 31, 2011, the aggregate deficit was $1,079 million. any declines in the fair values of the pension plans assets could require additional payments by us in order to maintain specified funding levels. our pension plans are subject to legislative and regulatory requirements of applicable jurisdictions, which could include, under certain circumstances, local governmental authority to terminate the plan. we may be required to record material charges against our earnings due to any number of events that could cause impairments to our assets. we may be required to reduce production at or idle facilities for extended periods of time or exit certain businesses as a result of the cyclical nature of our industry. specifically, oversupplies of or lack of demand for particular products or high raw material prices may cause us to reduce production. we may choose to reduce production at certain facilities because we have off-take arrangements at other facilities, which make any reductions or idling unavailable at those facilities. any decision to permanently close facilities or exit a business likely would result in impairment and other charges to earnings. temporary outages at our facilities can last for several quarters and sometimes longer. these outages could cause us to incur significant costs, including the expenses of maintaining and restarting these facilities. in addition, even though we may reduce production at facilities, we may be required to continue to purchase or pay for utilities or raw materials under take-or-pay supply agreements. many of our businesses depend on our intellectual property. our future success will depend in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, and our inability to do so could reduce our ability to maintain our competitiveness and margins. we have a significant worldwide patent portfolio of issued and pending patents. these patents, together with proprietary technical know-how, are significant to our competitive position, particularly with regard to po, performance chemicals, petrochemicals, and polymers, including process technologies such as spheripol , spherizone , hostalen , spherilene , lupotech t and avant catalyst family technology rights. we rely on the patent, copyright and trade secret laws of the countries in which we operate to protect our investment in research and development, manufacturing and marketing. however, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without authorization. proceedings to protect these rights could be costly, and we may not prevail. the protection afforded by patents varies from country to country and depends upon the type of patent and its scope of coverage. while a presumption of validity exists with respect to patents issued to us, our patents may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. as patents expire, the products and processes described and claimed under those patents become generally available for use by competitors. 39 table of contents our continued growth strategy may bring us to regions of the world where intellectual property protection may be limited and difficult to enforce. in addition, patent rights may not prevent our competitors from developing, using or selling products that are similar or functionally equivalent to our products. moreover, our competitors or other third parties may obtain patents that restrict or preclude our ability to lawfully produce or sell our products in a competitive manner, which could result in significantly lower revenues, reduced profit margins or loss of market share. we also rely upon unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. while it is our policy to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, these confidentiality agreements may be breached, may not provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies may not be available. additionally, others could obtain knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development or other access by legal or illegal means. the failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our processes, apparatuses, technology, trade secrets or proprietary know-how could result in significantly lower revenues, reduced profit margins and cash flows and/or loss of market share. we also may be subject to claims that our technology, patents or other intellectual property infringes on a third party intellectual property rights. unfavorable resolution of these claims could result in restrictions on our ability to deliver the related service or in a settlement that could be material to us. we may not be able to fully or successfully implement our ongoing plans to improve and globally integrate our business processes and functions. we continue to seek ways to drive greater productivity, flexibility and cost savings. in particular, we are working towards the improvement and global integration of our business processes and functions. as part of these efforts, we have been centralizing certain functions, implementing new information technology, and integrating our existing information technology systems. our ongoing implementation of organizational improvements is made more difficult by our need to coordinate geographically dispersed operations. inabilities and delays in implementing improvements can negatively affect our ability to realize projected or expected cost savings. in addition, the process of organizational improvements may cause interruptions of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our businesses. it may also result in the loss of personnel or other labor issues. these issues, as well as any information technology systems failures, also could impede our ability to timely collect and report financial results in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. additionally, from time to time certain aspects of our business processes may be outsourced to third parties. the processes, or the portions thereof, that are outsourced generally will tend to be labor intensive transactional activities such as processing invoices for account payable transactions. although we make a diligent effort to ensure that all providers of outsourced services observe proper internal control practices and procedures, we cannot assure that failures will not occur. the failure of such third parties to provide adequate services could adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity, or our ability to provide adequate financial and management reporting. increased it security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to our systems, networks, products, facilities and services. increased global it security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. while we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training, comprehensive monitoring of our networks and systems, and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our systems, networks, products, facilities and services remain potentially vulnerable to advanced persistent threats. depending on their nature and scope, such threats could potentially lead to the compromising of confidential information, improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitiveness and results of operations. 40 table of contents shared control or lack of control of joint ventures may delay decisions or actions regarding the joint ventures. a portion of our operations are conducted through joint ventures, where control may be exercised by or shared with unaffiliated third parties. we cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners, including any nonperformance, default or bankruptcy of joint venture partners. the joint ventures that we do not control may also lack adequate internal controls systems or financial reporting systems to provide adequate and timely information for our reporting purposes. in the event that any of our joint venture partners do not observe their obligations, it is possible that the affected joint venture would not be able to operate in accordance with our business plans. as a result, we could be required to increase our level of commitment in order to give effect to such plans. differences in views among the joint venture participants also may result in delayed decisions or in failures to agree on major matters, potentially adversely affecting the business and operations of the joint ventures and in turn our business and operations . our capital requirements could limit or cause us to change our growth and development plans. at december 31, 2011, we have approximately $4.0 billion of total consolidated debt. our debt and the limitations imposed on us by our financing arrangements could: require us to dedicate a substantial portion, or all, of our cash flow from operations to payments of principal and interest on our debt; make us more vulnerable during downturns, which could limit our ability to take advantage of significant business opportunities and react to changes in our business and in market or industry conditions; and put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors that have less debt. if our cash flow from operations and capital resources were reduced, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or other planned uses of our cash due to our substantial debt service obligations. we could choose to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, but there can be no assurances that we would be able to do so on terms we deem acceptable, if at all. additionally, our debt instruments may limit our ability to effect such actions. our debt or other financing arrangements contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose operating and financial restrictions on us. there also is a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio contained in our u.s. abl facility that is applicable if availability under the facility falls below certain levels. we currently are in compliance with all of our restrictive and financial covenants; however, the ability to meet financial requirements can be affected by events beyond our control and, over time, these covenants may not be satisfied. a breach of covenants of or the failure to pay principal and interest when due under our debt or other financing could result in a default or cross-default under all or some of those instruments. any such default could result in an acceleration of all amounts outstanding under all facilities, and could relieve counterparties of their obligations to fund or otherwise make advances. without waivers from the parties to our financing arrangements, any such default would have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to operate. a substantial portion of our shares are owned by a few persons, and their interests in lyondellbasell industries n.v. may conflict with other stakeholders interests. as of february 24, 2012, two of our shareholders collectively own approximately 44 % of our outstanding ordinary shares. under dutch law, there are no quorum requirements for shareholder voting and most matters are approved or adopted by a majority of votes cast. as a result, as long as these shareholders or any other substantial shareholder own, directly or indirectly, a substantial portion of our outstanding shares, they will be able to significantly influence all matters requiring shareholder approval, including amendments to our articles of association, the election of directors, significant corporate transactions, dividend payments and other matters. these shareholders may have interests that conflict with other stakeholders, including holders of our notes, and actions may be taken that other stakeholders do not view as beneficial. 41 table of contents additionally, these shareholders are party to nomination agreements that entitle each of the shareholders to cause our supervisory board to nominate for election members to our supervisory board for so long as the shareholder owns specified percentages of our ordinary shares. our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain key employees and the identification and development of talent to succeed senior management. our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, and we rely heavily on our management team. the inability to recruit and retain key personnel or the unexpected loss of key personnel may adversely affect our operations. in addition, because of the reliance on our management team, our future success depends in part on our ability to identify and develop talent to succeed senior management. the retention of key personnel and appropriate senior management succession planning will continue to be critically important to the successful implementation of our strategies. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for discussion of lyondellbasell n.v. management of commodity price risk, foreign currency exposure and interest rate risk through its use of derivative instruments and hedging activities. the company ability to engage in risk mitigation activities through the use of derivative transactions was limited from early 2009 to april 30, 2010 as a result of the voluntary filings in 2009 for relief under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code and the associated perceived credit risk. commodity price risk a substantial portion of our products and raw materials are commodities whose prices fluctuate as market supply and demand fundamentals change. accordingly, product margins and the level of our profitability tend to fluctuate with changes in the business cycle. we try to protect against such instability through various business strategies. these include provisions in sales contracts allowing us to pass on higher raw material costs through timely price increases, formula price contracts to transfer or share commodity price risk, and increasing the depth and breadth of our product portfolio. in addition, we selectively use commodity swap, option, and futures contracts with various terms to manage the volatility related to purchases of natural gas and raw materials, as well as product sales. such contracts are generally limited to durations of one year or less. cash-flow hedge accounting may be elected for these derivative transactions; however, in some cases, when the duration of a derivative is short, hedge accounting is not elected. when hedge accounting is not elected, the changes in fair value of these instruments will be recorded in earnings. when hedge accounting is elected, gains and losses on these instruments will be deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income ( aoci ), to the extent that the hedge remains effective, until the underlying transaction is recognized in earnings. market risks created by these derivative instruments and the mark-to-market valuations of open positions are monitored by management. the estimated fair value and notional amounts of our open commodity futures contracts are shown in the table below: open commodity contracts december 31, 2011 notional amounts millions of dollars fair value value volumes volume unit maturity dates futures: gasoline sales $ 12 $ 34 12 million gallons january 2012 - february 2012 heating oil sales 1 54 19 million gallons january 2012 butane purchases (1 ) 22 12 million gallons january 2012 - february 2012 $ 12 $ 110 december 31, 2010 notional amounts fair value value volumes volume unit maturity dates futures: gasoline sales $ $ 16 7 million gallons february 2011 heating oil sales (1 ) 54 21 million gallons february 2011 $ (1 ) $ 70 78 table of contents we use value at risk ( var ), stress testing and scenario analysis for risk measurement and control purposes. var estimates the maximum potential loss in fair market values, given a certain move in prices over a certain period of time, using specified confidence levels. using sensitivity analysis and hypothetical changes in market prices ranging from 26% to 36%, which represents the one year volatility ranges of the underlying products, the effect would have been to increase lyondellbasell n.v. net income by less than $1 million. the quantitative information about market risk is necessarily limited because it does not take into account the effects of the underlying operating transactions. foreign exchange risk we manufacture and market our products in a number of countries throughout the world and, as a result, are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. transactions are entered into, in part, in currencies other than the applicable functional currency. a significant portion of our reporting entities use the euro as their functional currency. our reporting currency is the u.s. dollar. the translation gains or losses that result from the process of translating the euro denominated financial statements to u.s. dollars are deferred in aoci until such time as those assets are realized. changes in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro can therefore have a significant impact on comprehensive income. we generally do not attempt to minimize or mitigate the foreign currency risks resulting from the translation of assets and liabilities of foreign operations into our reporting currency. some of our operations enter into transactions denominated in other than their functional currency. this results in exposure to foreign currency risk for financial instruments, including, but not limited to third party and intercompany receivables and payables, intercompany loans and third party debt. we maintain risk management control systems intended to monitor foreign currency risk attributable to inter-company and third party outstanding foreign currency balances. the control systems involve the centralization of foreign currency exposure management, offsetting exposures and estimating the expected impacts of changes in foreign currency rates on our earnings. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to reduce the effects of our net currency exchange exposures. since june 30, 2010, our policy has been to maintain an approximately balanced position in foreign currencies to minimize exchange gains and losses arising from changes in exchange rates. this position is monitored weekly. a 10% fluctuation compared to the u.s. dollar in the underlying currencies would result in an additional impact to earnings of no more than $2.5 million in any reporting period. for 2011, the 2010 successor and predecessor periods and the year ended december 31, 2009, other income (loss), net, in the consolidated statements of income reflected a loss of $17 million, a gain of $18 million, losses of $258 million and gains of $123 million, respectively, in net exchange rate gains and losses. the $258 million loss in the 2010 predecessor period and the $123 million gain in 2009 were primarily the result of the revaluation of third party debt of certain of our subsidiaries due to changes in the foreign exchange rates in effect during those periods. such debt was denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the subsidiaries and was refinanced upon emergence from bankruptcy. for forward contracts that economically hedge recognized monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies, no hedge accounting is applied. changes in the fair value of foreign currency forward contracts are reported in the consolidated statements of income and offset the currency exchange results recognized on the assets and liabilities. interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate risk with respect to variable rate debt. our variable rate debt consists of our $2,000 million u.s. asset-based facility and our 450 million receivable securitization facility. at december 31, 2011, there were no outstanding borrowings under these facilities. 79 table of contentsrisk factors. you should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k. each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. our business, including our results of operations and reputation, could be adversely affected by process safety or product liability issues. failure to appropriately manage safety, human health, product liability and environmental risks associated with our products, product life cycles and production processes could adversely impact employees, communities, stakeholders, our reputation and our results of operations. public perception of the risks associated with our products and production processes could impact product acceptance and influence the regulatory environment in which we operate. while we have procedures and controls to manage process safety risks, issues could be created by events outside of our control including natural disasters, severe weather events and acts of sabotage. 18 table of contents our operations are subject to risks inherent in chemical and refining businesses, and we could be subject to liabilities for which we are not fully insured or that are not otherwise mitigated. we maintain property, business interruption, product, general liability, casualty and other types of insurance, including pollution and legal liability, that we believe are in accordance with customary industry practices. however, we are not fully insured against all potential hazards incident to our business, including losses resulting from natural disasters, wars or terrorist acts. changes in insurance market conditions have caused, and may in the future cause, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies to increase substantially and, in some instances, for certain insurance to become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. if we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, we might not be able to finance the amount of the uninsured liability on terms acceptable to us or at all, and might be obligated to divert a significant portion of our cash flow from normal business operations. further, because a part of our business involves licensing polyolefin process technology, our licensees are exposed to similar risks involved in the manufacture and marketing of polyolefins. hazardous incidents involving our licensees, if they do result or are perceived to result from use of our technologies, may harm our reputation, threaten our relationships with other licensees and/or lead to customer attrition and financial losses. our policy of covering these risks through contractual limitations of liability and indemnities and through insurance may not always be effective. as a result, our financial condition and results of operation would be adversely affected, and other companies with competing technologies may have the opportunity to secure a competitive advantage. our ability to source raw materials, including crude oil, may be adversely affected by political instability, civil disturbances or other governmental actions. we obtain a substantial portion of our principal raw materials from sources in north africa, the middle east, and south america that may be less politically stable than other areas in which we conduct business, such as europe or the u.s. political instability, civil disturbances and actions by governments in these areas are likely to substantially increase the price and decrease the supply of raw materials necessary for our operations, which will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. recently, increased incidents of civil unrest, including terrorist attacks and demonstrations which have been marked by violence, have occurred in some countries in north africa and the middle east. some political regimes in these countries are threatened or have changed as a result of such unrest. political instability and civil unrest could continue to spread in the region and involve other areas. such unrest, if it continues to spread or grow in intensity, could lead to civil wars, regional conflict, or regime changes resulting in governments that are hostile to countries in which we conduct substantial business, such as europe, the u.s., or their respective allies. costs and limitations on supply of raw materials and energy may result in increased operating expenses. the costs of raw materials and energy represent a substantial portion of our operating expenses. energy costs generally follow price trends of crude oil and natural gas. these price trends may be highly volatile and cyclical. in the past, raw material and energy costs have experienced significant fluctuations that adversely affected our business segments results of operations. for example, we continue to benefit from the favorable ratio of u.s. natural gas prices to crude oil prices. however, if the price of crude oil decreases relative to u.s. natural gas prices or if the demand for natural gas and ngls increases, this may have a negative result on our results of operations. additionally, the export of ngls from the u.s. and or greater restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could restrict the availability of our raw materials thereby increasing our costs. we are not always able to pass raw material and energy cost increases on to our customers. when we do have the ability to pass on the cost increases, we are not always able to do so quickly enough to avoid adverse impacts on our results of operations. 19 table of contents cost increases for raw materials also may increase working capital needs, which could reduce our liquidity and cash flow. even if we increase our sales prices to reflect rising raw material and energy costs, demand for products may decrease as customers reduce their consumption or use substitute products, which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. in addition, producers in natural gas cost-advantaged regions, such as the middle east and north america, benefit from the lower prices of natural gas and ngls. competition from producers in these regions may cause us to reduce exports from europe and elsewhere. any such reductions may increase competition for product sales within europe and other markets, which can result in lower margins in those regions. additionally, there are a limited number of suppliers for some of our raw materials and utilities and, in some cases, the supplies are specific to the particular geographic region in which a facility is located. it is also common in the chemical and refining industries for a facility to have a sole, dedicated source for its utilities, such as steam, electricity and gas. having a sole or limited number of suppliers may limit our negotiating power, particularly in the case of rising raw material costs. any new supply agreements we enter into may not have terms as favorable as those contained in our current supply agreements. additionally, there is growing concern over the reliability of water sources, including around the texas gulf coast where several of our facilities are located. the decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result of population growth, drought or regulation could negatively impact our operations. if our raw material or utility supplies were disrupted, our businesses may incur increased costs to procure alternative supplies or incur excessive downtime, which would have a direct negative impact on plant operations. disruptions of supplies may occur as a result of transportation issues including, but not limited to, as a result of natural disasters and water levels that can affect the ability of vessels, barges, rails, trucks and pipeline traffic. these risks are particularly prevalent in the u.s. gulf coast area. with increased volatility in raw material costs, our suppliers could impose more onerous terms on us, resulting in shorter payment cycles and increasing our working capital requirements. the economic crisis in europe could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. the recent european economic crisis resulted in reduced consumer confidence and spending in many countries in europe, particularly southern europe. a significant portion of our revenues and earnings are derived from our business in europe, including southern europe. in addition, most of our european transactions and assets, including cash reserves and receivables, are denominated in euros. if the european economic crisis continues or further deteriorates, there will likely be a continued negative effect on our european business, as well as the businesses of our european customers, suppliers and partners. in addition, if the crisis ultimately leads to the break-up of the european economic and monetary union or a significant devaluation of the euro, the value of our financial assets that are denominated in euros would be significantly reduced when translated to u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. any of these conditions could ultimately harm our overall business, prospects, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. economic downturns and disruptions in financial markets can adversely affect our business and results of operations. our results of operations can be materially affected by adverse conditions in the financial markets and depressed economic conditions generally. economic downturns in the businesses and geographic areas in which we sell our products substantially reduce demand for our products and result in decreased sales volumes. recessionary environments adversely affect our business because demand for our products is reduced, particularly from our customers in industrial markets generally and the automotive and housing industries specifically. 20 table of contents the cyclicality and volatility of the industries in which we participate may cause significant fluctuations in our operating results. our business operations are subject to the cyclical and volatile nature of the supply-demand balance in the chemical and refining industries. our future operating results are expected to continue to be affected by this cyclicality and volatility. the chemical and refining industries historically have experienced alternating periods of capacity shortages, causing prices and profit margins to increase, followed by periods of excess capacity, resulting in oversupply, declining capacity utilization rates and declining prices and profit margins. in addition to changes in the supply and demand for products, changes in energy prices and other worldwide economic conditions can cause volatility. these factors result in significant fluctuations in profits and cash flow from period to period and over business cycles. in addition, new capacity additions in asia, the middle east and north america may lead to periods of oversupply and lower profitability. a sizable number of expansions have recently been announced in north america. the timing and extent of any changes to currently prevailing market conditions are uncertain and supply and demand may be unbalanced at any time. as a consequence, we are unable to accurately predict the extent or duration of future industry cycles or their effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we can give no assurances as to any predictions we may make with respect to the timing, extent or duration of future industry cycles. we sell products in highly competitive global markets and face significant price pressures. we sell our products in highly competitive global markets. due to the commodity nature of many of our products, competition in these markets is based primarily on price and, to a lesser extent, on product performance, product quality, product deliverability, reliability of supply and customer service. generally, we are not able to protect our market position for these products by product differentiation and may not be able to pass on cost increases to our customers. in addition, we face increased competition from companies that may have greater financial resources and different cost structures or strategic goals than us. these include large integrated oil companies (some of which also have chemical businesses), government-owned businesses, and companies that receive subsidies or other government incentives to produce certain products in a specified geographic region. increased competition from these companies, especially in our olefin and refining businesses, could limit our ability to increase product sales prices in response to raw material and other cost increases, or could cause us to reduce product sales prices to compete effectively, which could reduce our profitability. competitors that have greater financial resources than us may be able to invest significant capital into their businesses, including expenditures for research and development. in addition, specialty products we produce may become commoditized over time. increased competition could result in lower prices or lower sales volumes, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. interruptions of operations at our facilities may result in liabilities or lower operating results. we own and operate large-scale facilities. our operating results are dependent on the continued operation of our various production facilities and the ability to complete construction and maintenance projects on schedule. interruptions at our facilities may materially reduce the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility, or our business as a whole, during and after the period of such operational difficulties. in the past, we had to shut down plants on the u.s. gulf coast, including the temporary shutdown of our houston refinery, as a result of hurricanes striking the texas coast. 21 table of contents in addition, because the houston refinery is our only refining operation, an outage at the refinery could have a particularly negative impact on our operating results. unlike our chemical and polymer production facilities, which may have sufficient excess capacity to mitigate the negative impact of lost production at other facilities, we do not have the ability to increase refining production elsewhere in the u.s. although we take precautions to enhance the safety of our operations and minimize the risk of disruptions, our operations are subject to hazards inherent in chemical manufacturing and refining and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes. these potential hazards include: pipeline leaks and ruptures; explosions; fires; severe weather and natural disasters; mechanical failure; unscheduled downtimes; supplier disruptions; labor shortages or other labor difficulties; transportation interruptions; increased restrictions on, or the unavailability of, water for use at our manufacturing sites or for the transport of our products or raw materials; remediation complications; chemical and oil spills; discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases; storage tank leaks; other environmental risks; and terrorist acts. some of these hazards may cause severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and may result in suspension of operations or the shutdown of affected facilities. increased it security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to our systems, networks, products, facilities and services. increased global information security threats and more sophisticated, targeted computer crime pose a risk to the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data, operations and infrastructure. while we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training, comprehensive monitoring of our networks and systems, and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our employees, systems, networks, products, facilities and services remain potentially vulnerable to sophisticated espionage or continual cyber-assault. depending on their nature and scope, such threats could potentially lead to the compromise of confidential information, improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitiveness and results of operations. we operate internationally and are subject to exchange rate fluctuations, exchange controls, political risks and other risks relating to international operations. we operate internationally and are subject to the risks of doing business on a global level. these risks include fluctuations in currency exchange rates, economic instability and disruptions, restrictions on the transfer of funds and the imposition of duties and tariffs. additional risks from our multinational business include 22 table of contents transportation delays and interruptions, war, terrorist activities, epidemics, pandemics, political instability, import and export controls, changes in governmental policies, labor unrest and current and changing regulatory environments. we generate revenues from export sales and operations that may be denominated in currencies other than the relevant functional currency. exchange rates between these currencies and functional currencies in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may do so in the future. we also could hedge certain revenues and costs using derivative instruments to minimize the impact of changes in the exchange rates of those currencies compared to the respective functional currencies. it is possible that fluctuations in exchange rates will result in reduced operating results. additionally, we operate with the objective of having our worldwide cash available in the locations where it is needed, including the netherlands for our parent company significant cash obligations as a result of dividend and interest payments. it is possible that we may not always be able to provide cash to other jurisdictions when needed or that such transfers of cash could be subject to additional taxes, including withholding taxes. this particularly is true of transfers of cash outside of the united states, where we currently have significant cash flows from operations. our operating results could be negatively affected by the global laws, rules and regulations, as well as political environments in the jurisdictions in which we operate. there could be reduced demand for our products, decreases in the prices at which we can sell our products and disruptions of production or other operations. additionally, there may be substantial capital and other costs to comply with regulations and/or increased security costs or insurance premiums, any of which could reduce our operating results. we obtain a substantial portion of our principal raw materials from international sources that are subject to these same risks. our compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations to which we may be subject could be challenged. furthermore, these laws may be modified, the result of which may be to prevent or limit subsidiaries from transferring cash to us. furthermore, we are subject to certain existing, and may be subject to possible future, laws that limit or may limit our activities while some of our competitors may not be subject to such laws, which may adversely affect our competitiveness. many of our businesses depend on our intellectual property. our future success will depend in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, and our inability to do so could reduce our ability to maintain our competitiveness and margins. we have a significant worldwide patent portfolio of issued and pending patents. these patents, together with proprietary technical know-how, are significant to our competitive position, particularly with regard to propylene oxide, performance chemicals, petrochemicals, and polymers, including process technologies such as spheripol , spherizone , hostalen , spherilene , lupotech t and avant catalyst family technology rights. we rely on the patent, copyright and trade secret laws of the countries in which we operate to protect our investment in research and development, manufacturing and marketing. however, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without authorization. proceedings to protect these rights could be costly, and we may not prevail. the protection afforded by patents varies from country to country and depends upon the type of patent and its scope of coverage. while a presumption of validity exists with respect to patents issued to us, our patents may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. as patents expire, the products and processes described and claimed under those patents become generally available for use by competitors. our continued growth strategy may bring us to regions of the world where intellectual property protection may be limited and difficult to enforce. in addition, patent rights may not prevent our competitors from 23 table of contents developing, using or selling products that are similar or functionally equivalent to our products. moreover, our competitors or other third parties may obtain patents that restrict or preclude our ability to lawfully produce or sell our products in a competitive manner, which could result in significantly lower revenues, reduced profit margins or loss of market share. we also rely upon unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. while it is our policy to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, these confidentiality agreements may be breached, may not provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies may not be available. additionally, others could obtain knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development or other access by legal or illegal means. the failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our processes, apparatuses, technology, trade secrets or proprietary know-how could result in significantly lower revenues, reduced profit margins and cash flows and/or loss of market share. we also may be subject to claims that our technology, patents or other intellectual property infringes on a third party intellectual property rights. unfavorable resolution of these claims could result in restrictions on our ability to deliver the related service or in a settlement that could be material to us. shared control or lack of control of joint ventures may delay decisions or actions regarding the joint ventures. a portion of our operations are conducted through joint ventures, where control may be exercised by or shared with unaffiliated third parties. we cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners, including any nonperformance, default or bankruptcy of joint venture partners. the joint ventures that we do not control may also lack adequate internal controls systems or financial reporting systems to provide adequate and timely information for our reporting purposes. in the event that any of our joint venture partners do not observe their obligations, it is possible that the affected joint venture would not be able to operate in accordance with our business plans. as a result, we could be required to increase our level of commitment in order to give effect to such plans. differences in views among the joint venture participants also may result in delayed decisions or in failures to agree on major matters, potentially adversely affecting the business and operations of the joint ventures and in turn our business and operations. we cannot predict with certainty the extent of future costs under environmental, health and safety and other laws and regulations, and cannot guarantee they will not be material. we may face liability arising out of the normal course of business, including alleged personal injury or property damage due to exposure to chemicals or other hazardous substances at our current or former facilities or chemicals that we manufacture, handle or own. in addition, because our products are components of a variety of other end-use products, we, along with other members of the chemical industry, are subject to potential claims related to those end-use products. any substantial increase in the success of these types of claims could negatively affect our operating results. we (together with the industries in which we operate) are subject to extensive national, regional, state and local environmental laws, regulations, directives, rules and ordinances concerning emissions to the air; discharges onto land or surface waters or into groundwater; and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials. 24 table of contents many of these laws and regulations provide for substantial fines and potential criminal sanctions for violations. some of these laws and regulations are subject to varying and conflicting interpretations. in addition, some of these laws and regulations require us to meet specific financial responsibility requirements. any substantial liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. although we have compliance programs and other processes intended to ensure compliance with all such regulations, we are subject to the risk that our compliance with such regulations could be challenged. non-compliance with certain of these regulations could result in the incurrence of additional costs, penalties or assessments that could be material. our industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and existing, or future regulations may restrict our operations, increase our costs of operations or require us to make additional capital expenditures. compliance with regulatory requirements could result in higher operating costs, such as regulatory requirements relating to emissions, the security of our facilities, and the transportation, export or registration of our products. we generally expect that regulatory controls worldwide will become increasingly more demanding, but cannot accurately predict future developments. increasingly strict environmental laws and inspection and enforcement policies, could affect the handling, manufacture, use, emission or disposal of products, other materials or hazardous and non-hazardous waste. stricter environmental, safety and health laws, regulations and enforcement policies could result in increased operating costs or capital expenditures to comply with such laws and regulations. additionally, we are required to have permits for our businesses and are subject to licensing regulations. these permits and licenses are subject to renewal, modification and in some circumstances, revocation. further, the permits and licenses are often difficult, time consuming and costly to obtain and could contain conditions that limit our operations. we may incur substantial costs to comply with climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives. there has been a broad range of proposed or promulgated state, national and international laws focusing on greenhouse gas ( ghg ) reduction. these proposed or promulgated laws apply or could apply in countries where we have interests or may have interests in the future. laws in this field continue to evolve and, while they are likely to be increasingly widespread and stringent, at this stage it is not possible to accurately estimate either a timetable for implementation or our future compliance costs relating to implementation. within the framework of eu emissions trading, we were allocated certain allowances of carbon dioxide per year for the affected plants of our european sites for the 2005 to 2007 period. for the second trading period (2008 to 2012), a number of our plants were included in the europe-wide trading system. we expect to incur additional costs as a result of the existing emissions trading scheme (including the third trading period starting in 2013) and could incur additional costs in relation to any future carbon or other greenhouse gas emission trading schemes. the costs could be higher to the extent that we decide to sell credits that we need in the future. in the u.s., the environmental protection agency (the epa ) has promulgated federal ghg regulations under the clean air act affecting certain sources. the epa has issued mandatory ghg reporting requirements, requirements to obtain ghg permits for certain industrial plants and proposals for ghg performance standards for some facilities. the recent epa action could be a precursor to further federal regulation of carbon dioxide emissions and other greenhouse gases, and may affect the outcome of other climate change lawsuits pending in u.s. federal courts in a manner unfavorable to our industry. in any event, additional regulation may be forthcoming at the u.s. federal or state level with respect to ghg emissions, and such regulation could result in the creation of additional costs in the form of taxes or required acquisition or trading of emission allowances. compliance with these or other changes in laws, regulations and obligations that create a ghg emissions trading scheme or ghg reduction policies generally could significantly increase our costs or reduce demand for 25 table of contents products we produce. additionally, compliance with these regulations may result in increased permitting necessary for the operation of our business or for any of our growth plans. difficulties in obtaining such permits could have an adverse effect on our future growth. therefore, any future potential regulations and legislation could result in increased compliance costs, additional operating restrictions or delays in implementing growth projects or other capital investments, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we may be required to record material charges against our earnings due to any number of events that could cause impairments to our assets. we may be required to reduce production at or idle facilities for extended periods of time or exit certain businesses as a result of the cyclical nature of our industry. specifically, oversupplies of or lack of demand for particular products or high raw material prices may cause us to reduce production. we may choose to reduce production at certain facilities because we have off-take arrangements at other facilities, which make any reductions or idling unavailable at those facilities. any decision to permanently close facilities or exit a business likely would result in impairment and other charges to earnings. temporary outages at our facilities can last for several quarters and sometimes longer. these outages could cause us to incur significant costs, including the expenses of maintaining and restarting these facilities. in addition, even though we may reduce production at facilities, we may be required to continue to purchase or pay for utilities or raw materials under take-or-pay supply agreements. our business is capital intensive and we rely on cash generated from operations and external financing to fund our growth and ongoing capital needs. limitations on access to external financing could adversely affect our operating results. we require significant capital to operate our current business and fund our growth strategy. moreover, interest payments, dividends and the expansion of our business or other business opportunities may require significant amounts of capital. we believe that our cash from operations currently will be sufficient to meet these needs. however, if we need external financing, our access to credit markets and pricing of our capital is dependent upon maintaining sufficient credit ratings from credit rating agencies and the state of the capital markets generally. there can be no assurances that we would be able to incur indebtedness on terms we deem acceptable, and it is possible that the cost of any financings could increase significantly, thereby increasing our expenses and decreasing our net income. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or raise adequate external financing, including as a result of significant disruptions in the global credit markets, we could be forced to restrict our operations and growth opportunities, which could adversely affect our operating results. we may use our five-year, $2.0 billion revolving credit facility to meet our cash needs, to the extent available. as of december 31, 2012, we had no borrowings and $48 million of letters of credit issued and supported by the facility, leaving an unused and available credit capacity of $1,949 million. in the event of a default under our credit facility or any of our senior notes, we could be required to immediately repay all outstanding borrowings and make cash deposits as collateral for all obligations the facility supports, which we may not be able to do. any default under any of our credit arrangements could cause a default under many of our other credit agreements and debt instruments. without waivers from lenders party to those agreements, any such default could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to operate. certain activities related to a former project raise compliance issues under u.s. law. we have identified an agreement related to a former project in kazakhstan under which a payment was made that raises compliance concerns under the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ). we have engaged outside counsel to investigate these activities, under the oversight of the audit committee of the supervisory board, and to evaluate internal controls and compliance policies and procedures. we made a 26 table of contents voluntary disclosure of these matters to the u.s. department of justice and are cooperating fully with that agency. we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these matters at this time since our investigations are ongoing. in this respect, we may not have conducted business in compliance with the fcpa and may not have had policies and procedures in place adequate to ensure compliance. therefore, we cannot reasonably estimate a range of liability for any potential penalty resulting from these matters. violations of these laws could result in criminal and civil liabilities and other forms of penalties or sanctions that could be material to us. legislation and regulatory initiatives could lead to a decrease in demand for our products. new or revised governmental regulations and independent studies relating to the effect of our products on health, safety and the environment may affect demand for our products and the cost of producing our products. initiatives by governments and private interest groups will potentially require increased toxicological testing and risk assessments of a wide variety of chemicals, including chemicals used or produced by us. for example, in the united states, the national toxicology program ( ntp ) is a federal interagency program that seeks to identify and select for study chemicals and other substances to evaluate potential human health hazards. in the european union, reach is regulation designed to identify the intrinsic properties of chemical substances, assess hazards and risks of the substances, and identify and implement the risk management measures to protect humans and the environment. assessments under ntp, reach or similar programs or regulations in other jurisdictions may result in heightened concerns about the chemicals we use or produce and may result in additional requirements being placed on the production, handling, labeling or use of those chemicals. such concerns and additional requirements could also increase the cost incurred by our customers to use our chemical products and otherwise limit the use of these products, which could lead to a decrease in demand for these products. such a decrease in demand could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. a substantial portion of our ordinary shares are owned by a few persons, and their interests in lyondellbasell industries n.v. may conflict with other stakeholders interests. as of february 1, 2013, two separate groups of affiliated shareholders collectively own approximately 34% of our outstanding ordinary shares. under dutch law, there are no quorum requirements for shareholder voting and most matters are approved or adopted by a majority of votes cast. as a result, as long as these shareholders or any other substantial shareholder own, directly or indirectly, a substantial portion of our outstanding shares, they will be able to significantly influence all matters requiring shareholder approval, including amendments to our articles of association, the election of directors, significant corporate transactions, dividend payments and other matters. these shareholders may have interests that conflict with other stakeholders, including holders of our notes, and actions may be taken that other stakeholders do not view as beneficial. additionally, these shareholders are party to nomination agreements that entitle each of the shareholders to cause our supervisory board to nominate for election members to our supervisory board for so long as the shareholder owns specified percentages of our ordinary shares. our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain key employees and the identification and development of talent to succeed senior management. our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, and we rely heavily on our management team. the inability to recruit and retain key personnel or the unexpected loss of key personnel may adversely affect our operations. in addition, because of the reliance on our management team, our future success depends in part on our ability to identify and develop talent to succeed senior management. the retention of key personnel and appropriate senior management succession planning will continue to be critically important to the successful implementation of our strategies. 27 table of contents we may not be able to fully or successfully implement our ongoing plans to improve and globally integrate our business processes and functions. we continue to seek ways to drive greater productivity, flexibility and cost savings. in particular, we are working towards the improvement and global integration of our business processes and functions. as part of these efforts, we have been centralizing certain functions, implementing new information technology, and integrating our existing information technology systems. our ongoing implementation of organizational improvements is made more difficult by our need to coordinate geographically dispersed operations. inabilities and delays in implementing improvements can negatively affect our ability to realize projected or expected cost savings. in addition, the process of organizational improvements may cause interruptions of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our businesses. it may also result in the loss of personnel or other labor issues. these issues, as well as any information technology systems failures, also could impede our ability to timely collect and report financial results in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. additionally, from time to time certain aspects of our business processes may be outsourced to third parties. the processes, or the portions thereof, that are outsourced generally will tend to be labor intensive transactional activities. although we make a diligent effort to ensure that all providers of outsourced services observe proper internal control practices and procedures, we cannot assure that failures will not occur. the failure of such third parties to provide adequate services could adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity, or our ability to provide adequate financial and management reporting. significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions relating to pension costs may adversely affect the valuation of pension obligations, the funded status of pension plans, and our pension cost. our pension cost is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure pension obligations, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations at the measurement date and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets may result in corresponding increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets, particularly equity securities, or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. any change in key actuarial assumptions, such as the discount rate, would impact the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported funded status of our pension plans as well as the net periodic pension cost in the following fiscal years. certain of our current pension plans have projected benefit obligations that exceed the fair value of the plan assets. as of december 31, 2012, the aggregate deficit was $1,121 million. any declines in the fair values of the pension plans assets could require additional payments by us in order to maintain specified funding levels. our pension plans are subject to legislative and regulatory requirements of applicable jurisdictions, which could include, under certain circumstances, local governmental authority to terminate the plan. our operations could be adversely affected by labor relations. the vast majority of our employees located in europe and south america are represented by labor unions and works councils. approximately 800 of our employees located in north america are represented by labor unions. our operations have been in the past, and may be in the future, significantly and adversely affected by strikes, work stoppages and other labor disputes. 28 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for discussion of lyondellbasell n.v. management of commodity price risk, foreign currency exposure and interest rate risk through its use of derivative instruments and hedging activities. the company ability to engage in risk mitigation activities through the use of derivative transactions was limited until april 30, 2010 as a result of the voluntary filings in 2009 for relief under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code and the associated perceived credit risk. 61 table of contents commodity price risk a substantial portion of our products and raw materials are commodities whose prices fluctuate as market supply and demand fundamentals change. accordingly, product margins and the level of our profitability tend to fluctuate with changes in the business cycle. we try to protect against such instability through various business strategies. these include provisions in sales contracts allowing us to pass on higher raw material costs through timely price increases, formula price contracts to transfer or share commodity price risk, and increasing the depth and breadth of our product portfolio. in addition, we selectively use commodity swap, option, and futures contracts with various terms to manage the volatility related to purchases of natural gas and raw materials, as well as product sales. such contracts are generally limited to durations of one year or less. hedge accounting has not been elected for any of our commodity contracts in any of the periods presented. market risks created by these derivative instruments and the mark-to-market valuations of open positions are monitored by management. the estimated fair value and notional amounts of our open commodity futures contracts are shown in the table below: open commodity contracts december 31, 2012 notional amounts millions of dollars fair value value volumes volume unit maturity dates futures: gasoline $ (7 ) $ 56 20 million gallons january 2013 - february 2013 heating oil 38 13 million gallons january 2013 butane 5 25 14 million gallons january 2013 - february 2013 crude oil 1 110 47 million gallons february 2013 - march 2013 $ (1 ) $ 229 december 31, 2011 notional amounts fair value value volumes volume unit maturity dates futures: gasoline $ 12 $ 34 12 million gallons january 2012 - february 2012 heating oil 1 54 19 million gallons january 2012 butane (1 ) 22 12 million gallons january 2012 - february 2012 $ 12 $ 110 we use value at risk ( var ), stress testing and scenario analysis for risk measurement and control purposes. var estimates the maximum potential loss in fair market values, given a certain move in prices over a certain period of time, using specified confidence levels. using sensitivity analysis and hypothetical changes in market prices ranging from 18% to 31%, which represents the one year volatility ranges of the underlying products, the effect would have been to increase our net income by less than $1 million. the quantitative information about market risk is necessarily limited because it does not take into account the effects of the underlying operating transactions. 62 table of contents foreign exchange risk we manufacture and market our products in a number of countries throughout the world and, as a result, are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. transactions are entered into, in part, in currencies other than the applicable functional currency. a significant portion of our reporting entities use the euro as their functional currency. our reporting currency is the u.s. dollar. the translation gains or losses that result from the process of translating the euro denominated financial statements to u.s. dollars are deferred in aoci until such time as those entities may be liquidated or sold. changes in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro can therefore have a significant impact on comprehensive income. we generally do not attempt to minimize or mitigate the foreign currency risks resulting from the translation of assets and liabilities of non-u.s. operations into our reporting currency. some of our operations enter into transactions denominated in other than their functional currency. this results in exposure to foreign currency risk for financial instruments, including, but not limited to third party and intercompany receivables and payables and intercompany loans. we maintain risk management control systems intended to monitor foreign currency risk attributable to inter-company and third party outstanding foreign currency balances. the control systems involve the centralization of foreign currency exposure management, offsetting exposures and estimating the expected impacts of changes in foreign currency rates on our earnings. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to reduce the effects of our net currency exchange exposures. since june 30, 2010, our policy has been to maintain an approximately balanced position in foreign currencies to minimize exchange gains and losses arising from changes in exchange rates. this position is monitored routinely. a 10% fluctuation compared to the u.s. dollar in the underlying currencies would result in an additional impact to earnings of no more than $2.5 million in any reporting period. for 2012, 2011, and the 2010 successor and predecessor periods, other income (loss), net, in the consolidated statements of income reflected a loss of $21 million, a loss of $17 million, a gain of $18 million and a loss of $258 million, respectively, in net exchange rate gains and losses. the $258 million loss in the 2010 predecessor period was primarily the result of the revaluation of third party debt of certain of our subsidiaries due to changes in the foreign exchange rates in effect during those periods. such debt was denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the subsidiaries and was refinanced upon emergence from bankruptcy. for forward contracts that economically hedge recognized monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies, no hedge accounting is applied. changes in the fair value of foreign currency forward contracts are reported in the consolidated statements of income and offset the currency exchange results recognized on the assets and liabilities. interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate risk with respect to variable rate debt. our variable rate debt consists of our $2,000 million senior revolving credit facility, our $1,000 million u.s. receivables securitization facility and our 450 million european receivables securitization facility. at december 31, 2012, there were no outstanding borrowings under these facilities. 63 table of contentsrisk factors ; part i, item 3. legal proceedings ; part ii, item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation s; and notes 2 and 19 to the consolidated financial statements. we have made, and intend to continue to make, the expenditures necessary for compliance with applicable laws and regulations relating to environmental, health and safety matters. we incurred capital expenditures in 2013 for health, safety and environmental compliance purposes and improvement programs of $121 million in 2013, and estimate such expenditures to be approximately $215 million in 2014 and $274 million in 2015. 16 table of contents while capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance, including compliance with potential legislation and potential regulation related to climate change, cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not believe they will have a material effect on our competitive position. while there can be no assurance that physical risks to our facilities and supply chain due to climate change will not occur in the future, we have reviewed the potential for these risks and have concluded that, because of our facility locations and our existing distribution networks, we do not believe these risks are material in the near term. employee relations as of december 31, 2013, we employed approximately 13,300 full-time and part-time employees around the world. of these, approximately 5,900 were in north america, approximately 6,300 were in europe and approximately 1,100 were in other locations. as of december 31, 2013, approximately 850 of our employees in north america were represented by labor unions. the vast majority of our employees in europe and south america are subject to staff council or works council coverage or collective bargaining agreements. in addition to our own employees, we use the services of contractors in the routine conduct of our businesses. 17 table of contents executive officers name and age* significant experience james l. gallogly, 61 chairman and sole member of the management board since april 2010 and chief executive officer since may 2009. executive vice president of exploration and production for conocophillips from october 2008 to may 2009. karyn f. ovelmen, 50 executive vice president and chief financial officer since october 2011. executive vice president and chief financial officer of petroplus holdings ag from 2006 to 2010. (1) craig b. glidden, 56 executive vice president and chief legal officer since august 2009. senior vice president, legal and public affairs, general counsel and corporate secretary of chevron phillips chemical company from april 2004 to august 2009. bhavesh v. ( bob ) patel, 47 executive vice president, olefins and polyolefins eai and technology since october 2013. senior vice president, olefins and polyolefins eai and technology from november 2010 to october 2013. senior vice president, olefins and polyolefins americas from march 2010 to june 2011. general manager, olefins and ngls of chevron phillips chemical company from 2009 to 2010. timothy d. roberts, 52 executive vice president, olefins and polyolefins americas since october 2013. senior vice president, olefins and polyolefins americas from june 2011 to october 2013. vice president of planning and development for chevron phillips chemical from february 2011 to may 2011. president and ceo of americas styrenics llc, a joint venture between the dow chemical company and chevron phillips chemical, from may 2008 to january 2011. kevin w. brown, 56 senior vice president, refining since october 2009. director of sinclair oil from january 2006 to september 2009. executive vice president, operations of sinclair oil from june 2004 to september 2009. massimo covezzi, 56 senior vice president, research and development since january 2008. (1) in january 2012, petroplus holdings ag filed an insolvency petition in switzerland. 18 table of contents name and age* significant experience patrick d. quarles, 46 senior vice president, intermediates &amp; derivatives since september 2009. senior vice president, propylene oxide &amp; derivatives from january 2009 to september 2009. karen m. swindler, 48 senior vice president, manufacturing americas since november 2009. director of performance improvement from july 2009 to november 2009. director of north america polymers manufacturing from january 2008 to november 2009. michael vandersnick, 49 senior vice president, manufacturing eai since july 2012. site manager of the company channelview, matagorda, chocolate bayou and bayport, texas plants from 2004 to 2012. sergey vasnetsov, 50 senior vice president, strategic planning &amp; transactions since august 2010. managing director of equity research at barclay capital from 1999 to 2010. jacquelyn h. wolf, 52 senior vice president and chief human resources officer since september 2012. senior vice president and chief human resources officer for celanese, inc. from december 2009 to july 2012. executive vice president and chief human resources officer for comerica bank from january 2006 to december 2009. william b. allen, jr., 49 vice president, finance since february 2013 and principle accounting officer since april 2013. vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer of albemarle corporation from 2009 to 2013. chief financial officer of albemarle corporation catalysts business segment from 2007 to 2009 and fine chemistry solutions business segment from 2006 to 2007. lawrence c. somma, 47 vice president, treasurer since october 2013. senior vice president real estate and capital strategy for hyatt hotels corporation from october 2012 to september 2013. senior vice president, treasury for hyatt hotels corporation from july 2008 to september 2012. samuel l. smolik, 60 vice president, health, safety, environmental and operational excellence since november 2009. vice president, downstream health, safety and environmental of royal dutch shell from 2004 to october 2009. * as of february 17, 2014. 19 table of contents description of properties our principal manufacturing facilities as of december 31, 2013 are set forth below, and are identified by the principal segment or segments using the facility. all of the facilities are wholly owned, except as otherwise noted. location segment principal products americas bayport (pasadena), texas i&amp;d ethylene oxide, ethylene glycol and other ethylene oxide derivatives bayport (pasadena), texas(1) i&amp;d po, pg, pge, tba and isobutylene bayport (pasadena), texas o&amp;p americas pp and catalloy process resins channelview, texas(2) o&amp;p americas ethylene, propylene, butadiene, benzene and toluene refining alkylate channelview, texas(1)(2)(3) i&amp;d isopropyl alcohol, po, bdo, sm, isobutylene, methanol, etbe and mtbe chocolate bayou, texas o&amp;p americas pe (hdpe) clinton, iowa o&amp;p americas ethylene and propylene pe (ldpe and hdpe) corpus christi, texas o&amp;p americas ethylene, propylene, butadiene and benzene ensenada, argentina o&amp;p americas pp ensenada, argentina o&amp;p eai pp compounds houston, texas refining gasoline, diesel, jet fuel and lube oils la porte, texas(4) o&amp;p americas ethylene and propylene pe (ldpe and lldpe) la porte, texas(4)(5) i&amp;d vam, acetic acid and methanol lake charles, louisiana o&amp;p americas pp and catalloy process resins matagorda, texas o&amp;p americas pe (hdpe) morris, illinois o&amp;p americas pe (ldpe and lldpe) victoria, texas o&amp;p americas pe (hdpe) europe bayreuth, germany o&amp;p eai pp compounds berre l etang, france o&amp;p eai ethylene, propylene, butadiene, pp and pe (ldpe) botlek, rotterdam, the netherlands i&amp;d po, pg, pge, tba, isobutylene, bdo, mtbe and etbe brindisi, italy o&amp;p eai pp ferrara, italy o&amp;p eai pp and catalloy process resins technology polyolefin catalysts fos-sur-mer, france i&amp;d po, pg, tba, mtbe and etbe frankfurt, germany o&amp;p eai pe (hdpe) technology polyolefin catalysts knapsack, germany o&amp;p eai pp and pp compounds 20 table of contents location segment principal products ludwigshafen, germany technology polyolefin catalysts maasvlakte (near rotterdam), the netherlands(6) i&amp;d po and sm moerdijk, the netherlands o&amp;p eai catalloy process resins and pb-1 m&uuml;nchsm&uuml;nster, germany o&amp;p eai ethylene, propylene, pe (hdpe) tarragona, spain(7) o&amp;p eai pp and pp compounds wesseling, germany o&amp;p eai ethylene, propylene and butadiene pp and pe (hdpe and ldpe) asia pacific geelong, australia o&amp;p eai pp the facility is located on leased land. (1) the bayport po/tba plants and the channelview po/sm i plant are held by the u.s. po joint venture between bayer and lyondell chemical. these plants are located on land leased by the u.s. po joint venture. (2) equistar chemicals, lp operates a styrene maleic anhydride unit and a polybutadiene unit, which are owned by an unrelated party and are located within the channelview facility on property leased from equistar chemicals, lp. (3) unrelated equity investors hold a minority interest in the po/sm ii plant at the channelview facility. (4) the la porte facilities are on contiguous property. (5) the la porte methanol facility is owned by la porte methanol company, a partnership owned 85% by us. (6) the maasvlakte plant is owned by the european po joint venture and is located on land leased by the european po joint venture. (7) the tarragona pp facility is located on leased land; the compounds facility is located on co-owned land. other locations and properties we maintain executive offices in london, the united kingdom, rotterdam, the netherlands and houston, texas. we maintain research facilities in lansing, michigan; channelview, texas; cincinnati, ohio; ferrara, italy and frankfurt, germany. our asia pacific headquarters are in hong kong. we also have technical support centers in bayreuth, germany; geelong, australia; and tarragona, spain. we have various sales facilities worldwide. website access to sec reports our internet website address is http://www.lyondellbasell.com . information contained on our internet website is not part of this report on form 10-k. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are available on our website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with, or furnished to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission. alternatively, you may access these reports at the sec website at http://www.sec.gov . 21 table of contents disclosure pursuant to section 219 of the iran threat reduction &amp; syria human rights act under the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 (the act ), which added section 13(r) of the securities exchange act of 1934, we are required to include certain disclosures in our periodic reports if we or any of our affiliates (as defined in rule 12b-2 under the exchange act) knowingly engage in certain specified activities during the period covered by the report. neither we nor any of our controlled affiliates or subsidiaries engaged in any of the specified activities during 2013. however, because the sec defines the term affiliate broadly, it includes any entity controlled by us as well as any person or entity that controlled us or is under common control with us ( control is also construed broadly by the sec). apollo global management, llc ( apollo ) was potentially an affiliate of ours during 2013, as a result of the share ownership of certain investment funds managed by affiliates of apollo, which owned over 10% of our outstanding shares during 2013, and their right to designate two individuals to our eleven person supervisory board up until early august 2013. as of the date of this report, apollo is not an affiliate of lyondellbasell as no investment funds managed by affiliates of apollo owned any of our shares and their nomination rights terminated in november 2013. apollo informed us that, as of october 24, 2013, certain investment funds managed by apollo beneficially owned approximately 22% of the limited liability company interests of ceva holdings, llc ( ceva ). under the limited liability company agreement governing ceva, certain investment funds managed by affiliates of apollo hold a majority of the voting power of ceva and have the right to elect a majority of the board of ceva. ceva may be deemed to be under common control with us, but this statement is not meant to be an admission that common control exists. we have no involvement in or connection with the activities of ceva or any of its subsidiaries and receive no revenue from them, and have not independently verified or participated in the disclosure provided by apollo pursuant to the act. to comply with the act, we are providing the following disclosure, as provided to us by apollo: through an internal review of its global operations, ceva has identified the following transactions in an initial notice of voluntary self-disclosure that ceva filed with the u.s. treasury department office of foreign assets control ( ofac ) on october 28, 2013. ceva review is ongoing. ceva will file a further report with ofac after completing its review. the internal review indicates that, in december 2012, ceva freight italy srl ( ceva italy ) provided customs brokerage and freight forwarding services for the export to iran of two measurement instruments to the iranian offshore engineering construction company, a joint venture between two entities that are identified on ofac list of specially designated nationals ( sdn ). the revenues and net profits for these services were approximately $1,260.64 usd and $151.30 usd, respectively. in february 2013, ceva freight holdings (malaysia) sdn bhd ( ceva malaysia ) provided customs brokerage for export and local haulage services for a shipment of polyethylene resin to iran shipped on a vessel owned and/or operated by hds lines, also an sdn. the revenues and net profits for these services were approximately $779.54 usd and $311.13 usd, respectively. in september 2013, ceva malaysia provided customs brokerage services for the import into malaysia of fruit juice from alifard co. in iran via hds lines. the revenues and net profits for these services were approximately $227.41 usd and $89.29 usd, respectively. these transactions violate the terms of internal ceva compliance policies, which prohibit transactions involving iran. upon discovering these transactions, ceva promptly launched an internal investigation, and is taking action to block and prevent such transactions in the future. ceva intends to cooperate with ofac in its review of this matter. item 1a. risk factors. you should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k. each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. 22 table of contents our business, including our results of operations and reputation, could be adversely affected by safety or product liability issues. failure to appropriately manage safety, human health, product liability and environmental risks associated with our products, product life cycles and production processes could adversely impact employees, communities, stakeholders, our reputation and our results of operations. public perception of the risks associated with our products and production processes could impact product acceptance and influence the regulatory environment in which we operate. while we have procedures and controls to manage safety risks, issues could be created by events outside of our control including natural disasters, severe weather events and acts of sabotage. our operations are subject to risks inherent in chemical and refining businesses, and we could be subject to liabilities for which we are not fully insured or that are not otherwise mitigated. we maintain property, business interruption, product, general liability, casualty and other types of insurance that we believe are in accordance with customary industry practices. however, we are not fully insured against all potential hazards incident to our business, including losses resulting from natural disasters, wars or terrorist acts. changes in insurance market conditions have caused, and may in the future cause, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies to increase substantially and, in some instances, for certain insurance to become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. if we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, we might not be able to finance the amount of the uninsured liability on terms acceptable to us or at all, and might be obligated to divert a significant portion of our cash flow from normal business operations. further, because a part of our business involves licensing polyolefin process technology, our licensees are exposed to similar risks involved in the manufacture and marketing of polyolefins. hazardous incidents involving our licensees, if they do result or are perceived to result from use of our technologies, may harm our reputation, threaten our relationships with other licensees and/or lead to customer attrition and financial losses. our policy of covering these risks through contractual limitations of liability and indemnities and through insurance may not always be effective. as a result, our financial condition and results of operation would be adversely affected, and other companies with competing technologies may have the opportunity to secure a competitive advantage. our ability to source raw materials, including crude oil, may be adversely affected by political instability, civil disturbances or other governmental actions. we obtain a substantial portion of our principal raw materials from sources in north africa, the middle east, mexico and south america that may be less politically stable than other areas in which we conduct business, such as europe or the u.s. political instability, civil disturbances and actions by governments in these areas are likely to substantially increase the price and decrease the supply of raw materials necessary for our operations, which will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. recently, increased incidents of civil unrest, including terrorist attacks and demonstrations which have been marked by violence, have occurred in some countries in north africa and the middle east. some political regimes in these countries are threatened or have changed as a result of such unrest. political instability and civil unrest could continue to spread in the region and involve other areas. such unrest, if it continues to spread or grow in intensity, could lead to civil wars, regional conflict, or regime changes resulting in governments that are hostile to countries in which we conduct substantial business, such as europe, the u.s., or their respective allies. costs and limitations on supply of raw materials and energy may result in increased operating expenses. the costs of raw materials and energy represent a substantial portion of our operating expenses. energy costs generally follow price trends of crude oil and natural gas. these price trends may be highly volatile and cyclical. in the past, raw material and energy costs have experienced significant fluctuations that adversely 23 table of contents affected our business segments results of operations. for example, we continue to benefit from the favorable ratio of u.s. natural gas prices to crude oil prices. however, if the price of crude oil decreases relative to u.s. natural gas prices or if the demand for natural gas and ngls increases, this may have a negative result on our results of operations. additionally, the export of ngls from the u.s.; greater restrictions on hydraulic fracturing or the lifting by the u.s. government of the ban on u.s. crude oil exports could restrict the availability of our raw materials thereby increasing our costs. we are not always able to pass raw material and energy cost increases on to our customers. when we do have the ability to pass on the cost increases, we are not always able to do so quickly enough to avoid adverse impacts on our results of operations. cost increases for raw materials also may increase working capital needs, which could reduce our liquidity and cash flow. even if we increase our sales prices to reflect rising raw material and energy costs, demand for products may decrease as customers reduce their consumption or use substitute products, which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. in addition, producers in natural gas cost-advantaged regions, such as the middle east and north america, benefit from the lower prices of natural gas and ngls. competition from producers in these regions may cause us to reduce exports from europe and elsewhere. any such reductions may increase competition for product sales within europe and other markets, which can result in lower margins in those regions. additionally, there are a limited number of suppliers for some of our raw materials and utilities and, in some cases, the supplies are specific to the particular geographic region in which a facility is located. it is also common in the chemical and refining industries for a facility to have a sole, dedicated source for its utilities, such as steam, electricity and gas. having a sole or limited number of suppliers may limit our negotiating power, particularly in the case of rising raw material costs. any new supply agreements we enter into may not have terms as favorable as those contained in our current supply agreements. additionally, there is growing concern over the reliability of water sources, including around the texas gulf coast where several of our facilities are located. the decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result of population growth, drought or regulation could negatively impact our operations. if our raw material or utility supplies were disrupted, our businesses may incur increased costs to procure alternative supplies or incur excessive downtime, which would have a direct negative impact on plant operations. disruptions of supplies may occur as a result of transportation issues including, but not limited to, as a result of natural disasters and water levels that can affect the ability of vessels, barges, rails, trucks and pipeline traffic. these risks are particularly prevalent in the u.s. gulf coast area. with increased volatility in raw material costs, our suppliers could impose more onerous terms on us, resulting in shorter payment cycles and increasing our working capital requirements. economic disruptions and downturns in general, and particularly continued economic uncertainty in europe or economic turmoil in emerging markets, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. our results of operations can be materially affected by adverse conditions in the financial markets and depressed economic conditions generally. economic downturns in the businesses and geographic areas in which we sell our products substantially reduce demand for our products and result in decreased sales volumes and increased credit risk. recessionary environments adversely affect our business because demand for our products is reduced, particularly from our customers in industrial markets generally and the automotive and housing industries specifically, and may result in higher costs of capital. the recent european economic crisis resulted in reduced consumer confidence and spending in many countries in europe, particularly southern europe. a significant portion of our revenues and earnings are derived from our business in europe, including southern europe. in addition, most of our european transactions and assets, including cash reserves and receivables, are denominated in euros. 24 table of contents europe recovery from the economic crisis has been uneven, slow and modest. if the crisis re-emerges or meaningful recovery does not materialize across europe, there will likely be a continued negative effect on our european business, as well as the businesses of our european customers, suppliers and partners. in addition, if the crisis ultimately led to the break-up of the european economic and monetary union or a significant devaluation of the euro, the value of our financial assets that are denominated in euros would be significantly reduced when translated to u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. we also derive significant revenues from our business in emerging markets, particularly the emerging markets in asia and brazil. any broad-based downturn in these emerging markets, or in a key market such as china, could require us to reduce export volumes into these markets and could also require us to divert product sales to less profitable markets. any of these conditions could ultimately harm our overall business, prospects, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. the cyclicality and volatility of the industries in which we participate may cause significant fluctuations in our operating results. our business operations are subject to the cyclical and volatile nature of the supply-demand balance in the chemical and refining industries. our future operating results are expected to continue to be affected by this cyclicality and volatility. the chemical and refining industries historically have experienced alternating periods of capacity shortages, causing prices and profit margins to increase, followed by periods of excess capacity, resulting in oversupply, declining capacity utilization rates and declining prices and profit margins. in addition to changes in the supply and demand for products, changes in energy prices and other worldwide economic conditions can cause volatility. these factors result in significant fluctuations in profits and cash flow from period to period and over business cycles. new capacity additions in asia, the middle east and north america may lead to periods of oversupply and lower profitability. a sizable number of expansions have been announced in north america. the timing and extent of any changes to currently prevailing market conditions are uncertain and supply and demand may be unbalanced at any time. as a consequence, we are unable to accurately predict the extent or duration of future industry cycles or their effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we sell products in highly competitive global markets and face significant price pressures. we sell our products in highly competitive global markets. due to the commodity nature of many of our products, competition in these markets is based primarily on price and, to a lesser extent, on product performance, product quality, product deliverability, reliability of supply and customer service. generally, we are not able to protect our market position for these products by product differentiation and may not be able to pass on cost increases to our customers. in addition, we face increased competition from companies that may have greater financial resources and different cost structures or strategic goals than us. these include large integrated oil companies (some of which also have chemical businesses), government-owned businesses, and companies that receive subsidies or other government incentives to produce certain products in a specified geographic region. increased competition from these companies, especially in our olefin and refining businesses, could limit our ability to increase product sales prices in response to raw material and other cost increases, or could cause us to reduce product sales prices to compete effectively, which could reduce our profitability. competitors that have greater financial resources than us may be able to invest significant capital into their businesses, including expenditures for research and development. in addition, specialty products we produce may become commoditized over time. increased competition could result in lower prices or lower sales volumes, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. 25 table of contents interruptions of operations at our facilities may result in liabilities or lower operating results. we own and operate large-scale facilities. our operating results are dependent on the continued operation of our various production facilities and the ability to complete construction and maintenance projects on schedule. interruptions at our facilities may materially reduce the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility, or our business as a whole, during and after the period of such operational difficulties. in the past, we had to shut down plants on the u.s. gulf coast, including the temporary shutdown of our houston refinery, as a result of hurricanes striking the texas coast. in addition, because the houston refinery is our only refining operation, an outage at the refinery could have a particularly negative impact on our operating results. unlike our chemical and polymer production facilities, which may have sufficient excess capacity to mitigate the negative impact of lost production at other facilities, we do not have the ability to increase refining production elsewhere in the u.s. although we take precautions to enhance the safety of our operations and minimize the risk of disruptions, our operations are subject to hazards inherent in chemical manufacturing and refining and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes. these potential hazards include: pipeline leaks and ruptures; explosions; fires; severe weather and natural disasters; mechanical failure; unscheduled downtimes; supplier disruptions; labor shortages or other labor difficulties; transportation interruptions; increased restrictions on, or the unavailability of, water for use at our manufacturing sites or for the transport of our products or raw materials; remediation complications; chemical and oil spills; discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases; shipment of incorrect or off-specification product to customers; storage tank leaks; other environmental risks; and terrorist acts. some of these hazards may cause severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment or personal injury and loss of life and may result in suspension of operations or the shutdown of affected facilities. increased it security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to our systems, networks, products, facilities and services. increased global information security threats and more sophisticated, targeted computer crime pose a risk to the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data, operations and infrastructure. while we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training, comprehensive 26 table of contents monitoring of our networks and systems, and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our employees, systems, networks, products, facilities and services remain potentially vulnerable to sophisticated espionage or continual cyber-assault. depending on their nature and scope, such threats could potentially lead to the compromise of confidential information, improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitiveness and results of operations. we operate internationally and are subject to exchange rate fluctuations, exchange controls, political risks and other risks relating to international operations. we operate internationally and are subject to the risks of doing business on a global level. these risks include fluctuations in currency exchange rates, economic instability and disruptions, restrictions on the transfer of funds and the imposition of duties and tariffs. additional risks from our multinational business include transportation delays and interruptions, war, terrorist activities, epidemics, pandemics, political instability, import and export controls, changes in governmental policies, labor unrest and current and changing regulatory environments. we generate revenues from export sales and operations that may be denominated in currencies other than the relevant functional currency. exchange rates between these currencies and functional currencies in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may do so in the future. we also could hedge certain revenues and costs using derivative instruments to minimize the impact of changes in the exchange rates of those currencies compared to the respective functional currencies. it is possible that fluctuations in exchange rates will result in reduced operating results. additionally, we operate with the objective of having our worldwide cash available in the locations where it is needed, including the united kingdom for our parent company significant cash obligations as a result of dividend and interest payments. it is possible that we may not always be able to provide cash to other jurisdictions when needed or that such transfers of cash could be subject to additional taxes, including withholding taxes. our operating results could be negatively affected by the global laws, rules and regulations, as well as political environments in the jurisdictions in which we operate. there could be reduced demand for our products, decreases in the prices at which we can sell our products and disruptions of production or other operations. additionally, there may be substantial capital and other costs to comply with regulations and/or increased security costs or insurance premiums, any of which could reduce our operating results. we obtain a substantial portion of our principal raw materials from international sources that are subject to these same risks. our compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations to which we may be subject could be challenged. furthermore, these laws may be modified, the result of which may be to prevent or limit subsidiaries from transferring cash to us. furthermore, we are subject to certain existing, and may be subject to possible future, laws that limit or may limit our activities while some of our competitors may not be subject to such laws, which may adversely affect our competitiveness. many of our businesses depend on our intellectual property. our future success will depend in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, and our inability to do so could reduce our ability to maintain our competitiveness and margins. we have a significant worldwide patent portfolio of issued and pending patents. these patents, together with proprietary technical know-how, are significant to our competitive position, particularly with regard to propylene oxide, performance chemicals, petrochemicals, and polymers, including process technologies such as spheripol , spherizone , hostalen , spherilene , lupotech t and avant catalyst family technology rights. we rely on the patent, copyright and trade secret laws of the countries in which we operate to protect our investment in research 27 table of contents and development, manufacturing and marketing. however, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without authorization. proceedings to protect these rights could be costly, and we may not prevail. the protection afforded by patents varies from country to country and depends upon the type of patent and its scope of coverage. while a presumption of validity exists with respect to patents issued to us, our patents may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. as patents expire, the products and processes described and claimed under those patents become generally available for use by competitors. our continued growth strategy may bring us to regions of the world where intellectual property protection may be limited and difficult to enforce. in addition, patent rights may not prevent our competitors from developing, using or selling products that are similar or functionally equivalent to our products. moreover, our competitors or other third parties may obtain patents that restrict or preclude our ability to lawfully produce or sell our products in a competitive manner, which could result in significantly lower revenues, reduced profit margins or loss of market share. we also rely upon unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. while it is our policy to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, these confidentiality agreements may be breached, may not always be executed, may not provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies may not be available. additionally, others could obtain knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development or other access by legal or illegal means. the failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our processes, apparatuses, technology, trade secrets or proprietary know-how could result in significantly lower revenues, reduced profit margins and cash flows and/or loss of market share. we also may be subject to claims that our technology, patents or other intellectual property infringes on a third party intellectual property rights. unfavorable resolution of these claims could result in restrictions on our ability to deliver the related service or in a settlement that could be material to us. shared control or lack of control of joint ventures may delay decisions or actions regarding the joint ventures. a portion of our operations are conducted through joint ventures, where control may be exercised by or shared with unaffiliated third parties. we cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners, including any nonperformance, default or bankruptcy of joint venture partners. the joint ventures that we do not control may also lack adequate internal controls systems or financial reporting systems to provide adequate and timely information for our reporting purposes. in the event that any of our joint venture partners do not observe their obligations, it is possible that the affected joint venture would not be able to operate in accordance with our business plans. as a result, we could be required to increase our level of commitment in order to give effect to such plans. differences in views among the joint venture participants also may result in delayed decisions or in failures to agree on major matters, potentially adversely affecting the business and operations of the joint ventures and in turn our business and operations. we cannot predict with certainty the extent of future costs under environmental, health and safety and other laws and regulations, and cannot guarantee they will not be material. we may face liability arising out of the normal course of business, including alleged personal injury or property damage due to exposure to chemicals or other hazardous substances at our current or former facilities or chemicals that we manufacture, handle or own. in addition, because our products are components of a variety of 28 table of contents other end-use products, we, along with other members of the chemical industry, are subject to potential claims related to those end-use products. any substantial increase in the success of these types of claims could negatively affect our operating results. we (together with the industries in which we operate) are subject to extensive national, regional, state and local environmental laws, regulations, directives, rules and ordinances concerning emissions to the air; discharges onto land or surface waters or into groundwater; and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials. many of these laws and regulations provide for substantial fines and potential criminal sanctions for violations. some of these laws and regulations are subject to varying and conflicting interpretations. in addition, some of these laws and regulations require us to meet specific financial responsibility requirements. any substantial liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. although we have compliance programs and other processes intended to ensure compliance with all such regulations, we are subject to the risk that our compliance with such regulations could be challenged. non-compliance with certain of these regulations could result in the incurrence of additional costs, penalties or assessments that could be material. our industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and existing, or future regulations may restrict our operations, increase our costs of operations or require us to make additional capital expenditures. compliance with regulatory requirements could result in higher operating costs, such as regulatory requirements relating to emissions, the security of our facilities, and the transportation, export or registration of our products. we generally expect that regulatory controls worldwide will become increasingly more demanding, but cannot accurately predict future developments. increasingly strict environmental laws and inspection and enforcement policies, could affect the handling, manufacture, use, emission or disposal of products, other materials or hazardous and non-hazardous waste. stricter environmental, safety and health laws, regulations and enforcement policies could result in increased operating costs or capital expenditures to comply with such laws and regulations. additionally, we are required to have permits for our businesses and are subject to licensing regulations. these permits and licenses are subject to renewal, modification and in some circumstances, revocation. further, the permits and licenses are often difficult, time consuming and costly to obtain and could contain conditions that limit our operations. we have learned that the european commission has opened an investigation into germany renewable energy law (as amended in 2012) to examine whether the reduction granted to energy-intensive companies on a surcharge for the financing of renewable energy sources in germany is compatible with eu state aid rules. if and to the extent that the german government were to attempt to recover the reductions previously granted to our german subsidiaries or otherwise curtail the availability of such reductions in the future, the results of our o&amp;p-eai operations would be negatively impacted. we may incur substantial costs to comply with climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives. there has been a broad range of proposed or promulgated state, national and international laws focusing on greenhouse gas ( ghg ) reduction. these proposed or promulgated laws apply or could apply in countries where we have interests or may have interests in the future. laws in this field continue to evolve and, while they are likely to be increasingly widespread and stringent, at this stage it is not possible to accurately estimate either 29 table of contents a timetable for implementation or our future compliance costs relating to implementation. within the framework of the eu emissions trading scheme ( ets ) we were allocated certain allowances of carbon dioxide for the affected plants of our european sites for the period 2008 to 2012 ( ets ii period ). the ets ii period did not bring additional cost to us as the allowance allocation was sufficient to cover the actual emissions of the affected plants. we were able to build an allowance surplus during the ets ii period which has been banked to the scheme for the period 2013 to 2020 ( ets iii period ). we expect to incur additional costs for the ets iii period, despite the allowance surplus accrued over the ets ii period, as allowance allocations have been reduced for the ets iii period and more of our plants are affected by the scheme. we maintain an active hedging strategy to cover these additional costs. we expect to incur additional costs in relation to future carbon or greenhouse gas emission trading schemes. in the u.s., the environmental protection agency (the epa ) has promulgated federal ghg regulations under the clean air act affecting certain sources. the epa has issued mandatory ghg reporting requirements, requirements to obtain ghg permits for certain industrial plants and proposals for ghg performance standards for some facilities. the recent epa action could be a precursor to further federal regulation of carbon dioxide emissions and other greenhouse gases, and may affect the outcome of other climate change lawsuits pending in u.s. courts in a manner unfavorable to our industry. in any event, additional regulation may be forthcoming at the u.s. federal or state level with respect to ghg emissions, and such regulation could result in the creation of additional costs in the form of taxes or required acquisition or trading of emission allowances. compliance with these or other changes in laws, regulations and obligations that create a ghg emissions trading scheme or ghg reduction policies generally could significantly increase our costs or reduce demand for products we produce. additionally, compliance with these regulations may result in increased permitting necessary for the operation of our business or for any of our growth plans. difficulties in obtaining such permits could have an adverse effect on our future growth. therefore, any future potential regulations and legislation could result in increased compliance costs, additional operating restrictions or delays in implementing growth projects or other capital investments, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we may be required to record material charges against our earnings due to any number of events that could cause impairments to our assets. we may be required to reduce production at or idle facilities for extended periods of time or exit certain businesses as a result of the cyclical nature of our industry. specifically, oversupplies of or lack of demand for particular products or high raw material prices may cause us to reduce production. we may choose to reduce production at certain facilities because we have off-take arrangements at other facilities, which make any reductions or idling unavailable at those facilities. any decision to permanently close facilities or exit a business likely would result in impairment and other charges to earnings. temporary outages at our facilities can last for several quarters and sometimes longer. these outages could cause us to incur significant costs, including the expenses of maintaining and restarting these facilities. in addition, even though we may reduce production at facilities, we may be required to continue to purchase or pay for utilities or raw materials under take-or-pay supply agreements. our business is capital intensive and we rely on cash generated from operations and external financing to fund our growth and ongoing capital needs. limitations on access to external financing could adversely affect our operating results. we require significant capital to operate our current business and fund our growth strategy. moreover, interest payments, dividends and the expansion of our business or other business opportunities may require significant amounts of capital. we believe that our cash from operations currently will be sufficient to meet these needs. however, if we need external financing, our access to credit markets and pricing of our capital is 30 table of contents dependent upon maintaining sufficient credit ratings from credit rating agencies and the state of the capital markets generally. there can be no assurances that we would be able to incur indebtedness on terms we deem acceptable, and it is possible that the cost of any financings could increase significantly, thereby increasing our expenses and decreasing our net income. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or raise adequate external financing, including as a result of significant disruptions in the global credit markets, we could be forced to restrict our operations and growth opportunities, which could adversely affect our operating results. we may use our five-year, $2 billion revolving credit facility to meet our cash needs, to the extent available. as of december 31, 2013, we had no borrowings or letters of credit outstanding under the facility, leaving an unused and available credit capacity of $2,000 million. we may also meet our cash needs by selling receivables under our $1,000 million u.s. accounts receivable securitization facility or our 450 million european accounts receivable securitization facility. in the event of a default under our credit facility or any of our senior notes, we could be required to immediately repay all outstanding borrowings and make cash deposits as collateral for all obligations the facility supports, which we may not be able to do. any default under any of our credit arrangements could cause a default under many of our other credit agreements and debt instruments. without waivers from lenders party to those agreements, any such default could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to operate. legislation and regulatory initiatives could lead to a decrease in demand for our products. new or revised governmental regulations and independent studies relating to the effect of our products on health, safety and the environment may affect demand for our products and the cost of producing our products. initiatives by governments and private interest groups will potentially require increased toxicological testing and risk assessments of a wide variety of chemicals, including chemicals used or produced by us. for example, in the united states, the national toxicology program ( ntp ) is a federal interagency program that seeks to identify and select for study chemicals and other substances to evaluate potential human health hazards. in the european union, the regulation on registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemicals ( reach ) is regulation designed to identify the intrinsic properties of chemical substances, assess hazards and risks of the substances, and identify and implement the risk management measures to protect humans and the environment. assessments under ntp, reach or similar programs or regulations in other jurisdictions may result in heightened concerns about the chemicals we use or produce and may result in additional requirements being placed on the production, handling, labeling or use of those chemicals. such concerns and additional requirements could also increase the cost incurred by our customers to use our chemical products and otherwise limit the use of these products, which could lead to a decrease in demand for these products. such a decrease in demand could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain key employees and the identification and development of talent to succeed senior management. our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, and we rely heavily on our management team. the inability to recruit and retain key personnel or the unexpected loss of key personnel may adversely affect our operations. in addition, because of the reliance on our management team, our future success depends in part on our ability to identify and develop talent to succeed senior management. the retention of key personnel and appropriate senior management succession planning will continue to be critically important to the successful implementation of our strategies. we may not be able to fully or successfully implement our ongoing plans to improve and globally integrate our business processes and functions. we continue to seek ways to drive greater productivity, flexibility and cost savings. in particular, we are working towards the improvement and global integration of our business processes and functions. as part of these efforts, we have been centralizing certain functions, implementing new information technology, and integrating our existing information technology systems. 31 table of contents our ongoing implementation of organizational improvements is made more difficult by our need to coordinate geographically dispersed operations. inabilities and delays in implementing improvements can negatively affect our ability to realize projected or expected cost savings. in addition, the process of organizational improvements may cause interruptions of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our businesses. it may also result in the loss of personnel or other labor issues. these issues, as well as any information technology systems failures, also could impede our ability to timely collect and report financial results in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. additionally, from time to time certain aspects of our business processes may be outsourced to third parties. the processes, or the portions thereof, that are outsourced generally will tend to be labor intensive transactional activities. although we make a diligent effort to ensure that all providers of outsourced services observe proper internal control practices and procedures, we cannot assure that failures will not occur. the failure of such third parties to provide adequate services could adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity, or our ability to provide adequate financial and management reporting. significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions relating to pension costs may adversely affect the valuation of pension obligations, the funded status of pension plans, and our pension cost. our pension cost is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure pension obligations, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations at the measurement date and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets may result in corresponding increases and decreases in the value of plan assets, particularly equity securities, or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. any change in key actuarial assumptions, such as the discount rate, would impact the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported funded status of our pension plans as well as the net periodic pension cost in the following fiscal years. certain of our current pension plans could have projected benefit obligations that exceed the fair value of the plan assets. as of december 31, 2013, the aggregate deficit was $668 million. any declines in the fair values of the pension plans assets could require additional payments by us in order to maintain specified funding levels. our pension plans are subject to legislative and regulatory requirements of applicable jurisdictions, which could include, under certain circumstances, local governmental authority to terminate the plan. our operations could be adversely affected by labor relations. the vast majority of our employees located in europe and south america are represented by labor unions and works councils. approximately 850 of our employees located in north america are represented by labor unions. our operations have been in the past, and may be in the future, significantly and adversely affected by strikes, work stoppages and other labor disputes. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for discussion of lyondellbasell industries n.v. management of commodity price risk, foreign currency exposure and interest rate risk through its use of derivative instruments and hedging activities. commodity price risk a substantial portion of our products and raw materials are commodities whose prices fluctuate as market supply and demand fundamentals change. accordingly, product margins and the level of our profitability tend to fluctuate with changes in the business cycle. we try to protect against such instability through various business strategies. these include provisions in sales contracts allowing us to pass on higher raw material costs through timely price increases, formula price contracts to transfer or share commodity price risk, and increasing the depth and breadth of our product portfolio. in addition, we selectively use commodity swap, option, and futures contracts with various terms to manage the volatility related to purchases of natural gas and raw materials, as well as product sales. such contracts are generally limited to durations of one year or less. hedge accounting has not been elected for any of our commodity contracts in any of the periods presented. market risks created by these derivative instruments and the mark-to-market valuations of open positions are monitored by management. 62 table of contents the estimated fair value and notional amounts of our open commodity futures contracts are shown in the table below: open commodity contracts december 31, 2013 notional amounts millions of dollars fair value value volumes volume unit maturity dates futures: gasoline $ (4 ) $ 257 92 million gallons february 2014 - march 2014 heating oil 11 4 million gallons february 2014 crude oil 378 158 million gallons february 2014 - may 2014 $ (4 ) $ 646 december 31, 2012 notional amounts millions of dollars fair value value volumes volume unit maturity dates futures: gasoline $ (7 ) $ 56 20 million gallons january 2013 - february 2013 heating oil 38 13 million gallons january 2013 butane 5 25 14 million gallons january 2013 - february 2013 crude oil 1 110 47 million gallons february 2013 - march 2013 $ (1 ) $ 229 the increased level in open futures positions in 2013 is related to our strategies to manage the impact of future movements in the price of gasoline and crude oil on our product margins and the price differential between varying grades of crude oil. we use value at risk ( var ), stress testing and scenario analysis for risk measurement and control purposes. var estimates the maximum potential loss in fair market values, given a certain move in prices over a certain period of time, using specified confidence levels. using sensitivity analysis and hypothetical changes in market prices ranging from 6% to 14%, which represents a three month volatility range of the underlying products, the effect on our pretax income would be $9 million. the quantitative information about market risk is necessarily limited because it does not take into account the effects of the underlying operating transactions. foreign exchange risk we manufacture and market our products in a number of countries throughout the world and, as a result, are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we enter into transactions in currencies other than the applicable functional currency. a significant portion of our reporting entities use the euro as their functional currency. our reporting currency is the u.s. dollar. the translation gains or losses that result from the process of translating the euro 63 table of contents denominated financial statements to u.s. dollars are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income ( aoci ) until such time as those entities may be liquidated or sold. changes in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro can therefore have a significant impact on comprehensive income. we generally do not attempt to minimize or mitigate the foreign currency risks resulting from the translation of assets and liabilities of non-u.s. operations into our reporting currency. some of our operations enter into transactions denominated in other than their functional currency. this results in exposure to foreign currency risk for financial instruments, including, but not limited to third party and intercompany receivables and payables and intercompany loans. we maintain risk management control practices to monitor the foreign currency risk attributable to our inter-company and third party outstanding foreign currency balances. these practices involve the centralization of our exposure to underlying currencies that are not subject to central bank and/or country specific restrictions. by centralizing most of our foreign currency exposure into one subsidiary, we are able to take advantage of any natural offsets thereby reducing the overall impact of changes in foreign currency rates on our earnings. our policy is to maintain an approximately balanced position in foreign currencies to minimize exchange gains and losses arising from changes in exchange rates. to minimize the effects of our net currency exchange exposures, we enter into foreign currency spot and forward contracts. our net position in foreign currencies is monitored daily. at december 31, 2013 and 2012, a 10% fluctuation compared to the u.s. dollar in the underlying currencies that have no central bank or other currency restrictions would result in an additional impact to earnings of no more than approximately $2 million and $3 million, respectively. we also engage in short-term foreign exchange swaps in order to roll certain hedge positions and to make funds available for intercompany financing. for 2013, 2012, and 2011, other income (expense), net in the consolidated statements of income reflected losses of $4 million, $21 million and $17 million, respectively, in net exchange rate gains and losses. for forward contracts, including swap transactions, that economically hedge recognized monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies, no hedge accounting is applied. changes in the fair value of foreign currency forward contracts are reported in the consolidated statements of income and offset the currency exchange results recognized on the assets and liabilities. interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate risk with respect to variable rate debt. our variable rate debt consists of our $2,000 million senior revolving credit facility, our $1,000 million u.s. receivables securitization facility and our 450 million european receivables securitization facility. at december 31, 2013, there were no outstanding borrowings under these facilities. 64 table of contentsrisk factors ; part i, item 3. legal proceedings ; part ii, item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation s; and notes 2 and 19 to the consolidated financial statements. we have made, and intend to continue to make, the expenditures necessary for compliance with applicable laws and regulations relating to environmental, health and safety matters. we incurred capital expenditures of $177 million in 2015 for health, safety and environmental compliance purposes and improvement programs, and estimate such expenditures to be approximately $291 million in 2016 and $408 million in 2017. while capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance, including compliance with potential legislation and potential regulation related to climate change, cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not believe they will have a material effect on our competitive position. while there can be no assurance that physical risks to our facilities and supply chain due to climate change will not occur in the future, we have reviewed the potential for these risks and have concluded that, because of our facility locations and our existing distribution networks, we do not believe these risks are material in the near term. employee relations as of december 31, 2015, we employed approximately 13,000 full-time and part-time employees around the world. of this total, 6,000 were located in north america and another 6,000 were located in europe. the remainder of our employees are in other global locations. as of december 31, 2015, approximately 820 of our employees in north america were represented by labor unions. the vast majority of our employees in europe and south america are subject to staff council or works council coverage or collective bargaining agreements. in addition to our own employees, we use the services of contractors in the routine conduct of our businesses. 17 table of contents executive officers of the registrant our executive officers as of february 15, 2016 were as follows: name and age significant experience bhavesh v. ( bob ) patel, 49 chief executive officer and chairman of the management board since january 2015. executive vice president, olefins and polyolefins eai and technology from october 2013 and member of the management board from april 2014 to january 2015. senior vice president, olefins and polyolefins eai and technology from november 2010 to october 2013. senior vice president, olefins and polyolefins americas from march 2010 to june 2011. general manager, olefins and ngls of chevron phillips chemical company from 2009 to 2010. thomas aebischer, 54 executive vice president and chief financial officer since january 2016. chief financial officer of lafargeholcim from july 2015 to december 2015. chief financial officer of holcim ltd. from january 2011 to june 2015. kevin w. brown, 58 executive vice president, manufacturing and refining since january 2015 and member of the management board since may 2015. senior vice president, refining from october 2009 to january 2015. director of sinclair oil from january 2006 to september 2009. executive vice president, operations of sinclair oil from june 2004 to september 2009. dan m. coombs, 59 executive vice president, global olefins and polyolefins, and technology since january 2016. executive vice president, intermediates and derivatives from may 2015 to january 2016. senior vice president of manufacturing for chevron phillips chemical from december 2013 to may 2015. senior vice president for specialties, aromatics and styrenics for chevron phillips chemical from december 2011 to november 2013. vice president of corporate planning and development for chevron phillips chemical from september 2011 to november 2011. deputy general manager for qatar chemical company limited development and vice president qatar for chevron phillips chemical from april 2010 to september 2011. 18 table of contents name and age significant experience jeffrey a kaplan, 47 executive vice president and chief legal officer since march 2015 and member of the management board since may 2015. deputy general counsel from december 2009 to march 2015. massimo covezzi, 58 senior vice president, research and development since january 2008. james guilfoyle, 45 senior vice president, global intermediates and derivatives since june 2015. vice president of global propylene oxide and co-products from march 2015 to may 2015. director of polymer sales americas from january 2012 to february 2015. director of high density polyethylene from november 2006 to december 2011. michael vandersnick, 51 senior vice president, health, safety, security and environment since june 2015. senior vice president, manufacturing eai from july 2012 to june 2015 2015. site manager of the company channelview, matagorda, chocolate bayou and bayport, texas plants from 2004 to 2012. sergey vasnetsov, 52 senior vice president, strategic planning &amp; transactions since august 2010. managing director of equity research at barclays capital from 1999 to 2010. jacquelyn h. wolf, 54 senior vice president and chief human resources officer since september 2012. senior vice president and chief human resources officer for celanese, inc. from december 2009 to july 2012. executive vice president and chief human resources officer for comerica bank from january 2006 to december 2009. 19 table of contents description of properties our principal manufacturing facilities as of december 31, 2015 are set forth below, and are identified by the principal segment or segments using the facility. all of the facilities are wholly owned, except as otherwise noted. location segment principal products americas bayport (pasadena), texas i&amp;d eo, ethylene glycol and other eo derivatives bayport (pasadena), texas(1) i&amp;d po, pg, pge, tba and isobutylene bayport (pasadena), texas o&amp;p americas pp and catalloy process resins channelview, texas(2) o&amp;p americas ethylene, propylene, butadiene, benzene, toluene and alkylate channelview, texas(1)(2)(3) i&amp;d isopropyl alcohol, po, bdo, sm, isobutylene, methanol, etbe and mtbe chocolate bayou, texas o&amp;p americas pe (hdpe) clinton, iowa o&amp;p americas ethylene and propylene pe (ldpe and hdpe) corpus christi, texas o&amp;p americas ethylene and propylene edison, new jersey technology polyolefin catalysts ensenada, argentina o&amp;p americas pp o&amp;p eai pp compounds houston, texas refining gasoline, diesel, jet fuel and lube oils la porte, texas(4) o&amp;p americas ethylene and propylene pe (ldpe and lldpe) la porte, texas(4)(5) i&amp;d vam, acetic acid and methanol lake charles, louisiana o&amp;p americas pp and catalloy process resins matagorda, texas o&amp;p americas pe (hdpe) morris, illinois o&amp;p americas ethylene, propylene, and pe (ldpe and lldpe) tuscola, illinois i&amp;d ethanol victoria, texas o&amp;p americas pe (hdpe) europe berre l etang, france o&amp;p eai ethylene, propylene, butadiene, pp and pe (ldpe) botlek, rotterdam, the netherlands i&amp;d po, pg, pge, tba, isobutylene, bdo, mtbe and etbe brindisi, italy o&amp;p eai pp carrington, uk o&amp;p eai pp ferrara, italy o&amp;p eai pp and catalloy process resins technology polyolefin catalysts fos-sur-mer, france i&amp;d po, pg, tba, mtbe and etbe frankfurt, germany o&amp;p eai pe (hdpe) technology polyolefin catalysts 20 table of contents location segment principal products knapsack, germany o&amp;p eai pp and pp compounds ludwigshafen, germany technology polyolefin catalysts maasvlakte, the netherlands(6) i&amp;d po and sm moerdijk, the netherlands o&amp;p eai catalloy process resins and pb-1 m&uuml;nchsm&uuml;nster, germany o&amp;p eai ethylene, propylene, pe (hdpe) tarragona, spain(7) o&amp;p eai pp and pp compounds wesseling, germany o&amp;p eai ethylene, propylene and butadiene pp and pe (hdpe and ldpe) asia pacific geelong, australia o&amp;p eai pp the facility is located on leased land. (1) the bayport po/tba plants and the channelview po/sm i plant are held by the u.s. po joint venture between covestro and lyondell chemical. these plants are located on land leased by the u.s. po joint venture. (2) equistar chemicals, lp operates a styrene maleic anhydride unit and a polybutadiene unit, which are owned by an unrelated party and are located within the channelview facility on property leased from equistar chemicals, lp. (3) unrelated equity investors hold a minority interest in the po/sm ii plant at the channelview facility. (4) the la porte facilities are on contiguous property. (5) the la porte methanol facility is owned by la porte methanol company, a partnership owned 85% by us. (6) the maasvlakte plant is owned by the european po joint venture and is located on land leased by the european po joint venture. (7) the tarragona pp facility is located on leased land; the compounds facility is located on co-owned land. other locations and properties we maintain executive offices in london, the united kingdom, rotterdam, the netherlands and houston, texas. we maintain research facilities in lansing, michigan; channelview, texas; cincinnati, ohio; ferrara, italy and frankfurt, germany. our asia pacific headquarters are in hong kong. we also have technical support centers in bayreuth, germany; geelong, australia; and tarragona, spain. we have various sales facilities worldwide. website access to sec reports our internet website address is http://www.lyb.com . information contained on our internet website is not part of this report on form 10-k. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are available on our website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with, or furnished to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission. alternatively, you may access these reports at the sec website at http://www.sec.gov . 21 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. you should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k. each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. our business, including our results of operations and reputation, could be adversely affected by safety or product liability issues. failure to appropriately manage safety, human health, product liability and environmental risks associated with our products, product life cycles and production processes could adversely impact employees, communities, stakeholders, our reputation and our results of operations. public perception of the risks associated with our products and production processes could impact product acceptance and influence the regulatory environment in which we operate. while we have procedures and controls to manage safety risks, issues could be created by events outside of our control, including natural disasters, severe weather events and acts of sabotage. our operations are subject to risks inherent in chemical and refining businesses, and we could be subject to liabilities for which we are not fully insured or that are not otherwise mitigated. we maintain property, business interruption, product, general liability, casualty and other types of insurance that we believe are in accordance with customary industry practices. however, we are not fully insured against all potential hazards incident to our business, including losses resulting from natural disasters, wars or terrorist acts. changes in insurance market conditions have caused, and may in the future cause, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies to increase substantially and, in some instances, for certain insurance to become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. if we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, we might not be able to finance the amount of the uninsured liability on terms acceptable to us or at all, and might be obligated to divert a significant portion of our cash flow from normal business operations. further, because a part of our business involves licensing polyolefin process technology, our licensees are exposed to similar risks involved in the manufacture and marketing of polyolefins. hazardous incidents involving our licensees, if they do result or are perceived to result from use of our technologies, may harm our reputation, threaten our relationships with other licensees and/or lead to customer attrition and financial losses. our policy of covering these risks through contractual limitations of liability and indemnities and through insurance may not always be effective. as a result, our financial condition and results of operation would be adversely affected, and other companies with competing technologies may have the opportunity to secure a competitive advantage. our ability to source raw materials may be adversely affected by political instability, civil disturbances or other governmental actions. we obtain a substantial portion of our principal raw materials from sources in north africa, the middle east, mexico and south america that may be less politically stable than other areas in which we conduct business, such as europe or the u.s. political instability, civil disturbances and actions by governments in these areas are likely to substantially increase the price and decrease the supply of raw materials necessary for our operations, which will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. increased incidents of civil unrest, including terrorist attacks and demonstrations that have been marked by violence, have occurred in a number of countries in north africa and the middle east. some political regimes in these countries are threatened or have changed as a result of such unrest. political instability and civil unrest could continue to spread in the region and involve other areas. such unrest, if it continues to spread or grow in intensity, could lead to civil wars, regional conflicts, or regime changes resulting in governments that are hostile to countries in which we conduct substantial business, such as in europe, the u.s., or their respective allies. 22 table of contents a continued decrease in the price of crude oil may adversely impact the results of our operations, primarily in north america. energy costs generally follow price trends of crude oil and natural gas. these price trends may be highly volatile and cyclical. in the past, raw material and energy costs have experienced significant fluctuations that adversely affected our business segments results of operations. for example, we have benefitted from the favorable ratio of u.s. natural gas prices to crude oil prices in recent years. this advantage was reduced as oil prices declined beginning in 2014. if the price of crude oil continues to decrease and it remains lower relative to u.s. natural gas prices or if the demand for natural gas and ngls increases, this may have a negative impact on our results of operations. costs and limitations on supply of raw materials and energy may result in increased operating expenses. the costs of raw materials and energy represent a substantial portion of our operating expenses. due to the significant competition we face and the commodity nature of many of our products we are not always able to pass on raw material and energy cost increases to our customers. when we do have the ability to pass on the cost increases, we are not always able to do so quickly enough to avoid adverse impacts on our results of operations. cost increases for raw materials also may increase working capital needs, which could reduce our liquidity and cash flow. even if we increase our sales prices to reflect rising raw material and energy costs, demand for products may decrease as customers reduce their consumption or use substitute products, which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. in addition, producers in natural gas cost-advantaged regions, such as the middle east and north america, benefit from the lower prices of natural gas and ngls. competition from producers in these regions may cause us to reduce exports from europe and elsewhere. any such reductions may increase competition for product sales within europe and other markets, which can result in lower margins in those regions. for some of our raw materials and utilities there are a limited number of suppliers and, in some cases, the supplies are specific to the particular geographic region in which a facility is located. it is also common in the chemical and refining industries for a facility to have a sole, dedicated source for its utilities, such as steam, electricity and gas. having a sole or limited number of suppliers may limit our negotiating power, particularly in the case of rising raw material costs. any new supply agreements we enter into may not have terms as favorable as those contained in our current supply agreements. additionally, there is growing concern over the reliability of water sources, including around the texas gulf coast where several of our facilities are located. the decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result of population growth, drought or regulation could negatively impact our operations. if our raw material or utility supplies were disrupted, our businesses may incur increased costs to procure alternative supplies or incur excessive downtime, which would have a direct negative impact on plant operations. disruptions of supplies may occur as a result of transportation issues including, but not limited to, as a result of natural disasters and water levels that can affect the operations of vessels, barges, rails, trucks and pipeline traffic. these risks are particularly prevalent in the u.s. gulf coast area. additionally, the export of ngls from the u.s., greater restrictions on hydraulic fracturing or the lifting by the u.s. government of the ban on u.s. crude oil exports could restrict the availability of our raw materials, thereby increasing our costs. with increased volatility in raw material costs, our suppliers could impose more onerous terms on us, resulting in shorter payment cycles and increasing our working capital requirements. 23 table of contents economic disruptions and downturns in general, and particularly continued global economic uncertainty or economic turmoil in emerging markets, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. our results of operations can be materially affected by adverse conditions in the financial markets and depressed economic conditions generally. economic downturns in the businesses and geographic areas in which we sell our products substantially reduce demand for our products and result in decreased sales volumes and increased credit risk. recessionary environments adversely affect our business because demand for our products is reduced, particularly from our customers in industrial markets generally and the automotive and housing industries specifically, and may result in higher costs of capital. a significant portion of our revenues and earnings are derived from our business in europe, including southern europe. in addition, most of our european transactions and assets, including cash reserves and receivables, are denominated in euros. europe recovery from the economic crisis has continued to be uneven, slow and modest. if the crisis re-emerges or meaningful recovery does not materialize across europe, there will likely be a continued negative effect on our european business, as well as the businesses of our european customers, suppliers and partners. in addition, if such a crisis re-emerges and leads to a further significant devaluation of the euro, the value of our financial assets that are denominated in euros would be significantly reduced when translated to u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. we also derive significant revenues from our business in emerging markets, particularly the emerging markets in asia and brazil. any broad-based downturn in these emerging markets, or in a key market such as china, could require us to reduce export volumes into these markets and could also require us to divert product sales to less profitable markets. any of these conditions could ultimately harm our overall business, prospects, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. the cyclicality and volatility of the industries in which we participate may cause significant fluctuations in our operating results. our business operations are subject to the cyclical and volatile nature of the supply-demand balance in the chemical and refining industries. our future operating results are expected to continue to be affected by this cyclicality and volatility. the chemical and refining industries historically have experienced alternating periods of capacity shortages, causing prices and profit margins to increase, followed by periods of excess capacity, resulting in oversupply, declining capacity utilization rates and declining prices and profit margins. in addition to changes in the supply and demand for products, changes in energy prices and other worldwide economic conditions can cause volatility. these factors result in significant fluctuations in profits and cash flow from period to period and over business cycles. new capacity additions in asia, the middle east and north america may lead to periods of oversupply and lower profitability. a sizable number of expansions have been announced in north america. the timing and extent of any changes to currently prevailing market conditions are uncertain and supply and demand may be unbalanced at any time. as a consequence, we are unable to accurately predict the extent or duration of future industry cycles or their effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we sell products in highly competitive global markets and face significant price pressures. we sell our products in highly competitive global markets. due to the commodity nature of many of our products, competition in these markets is based primarily on price and, to a lesser extent, on product performance, product quality, product deliverability, reliability of supply and customer service. generally, we are not able to protect our market position for these products by product differentiation and may not be able to pass on cost increases to our customers due to the significant competition in our business. in addition, we face increased competition from companies that may have greater financial resources and different cost structures or strategic goals than us. these include large integrated oil companies (some of which 24 table of contents also have chemical businesses), government-owned businesses, and companies that receive subsidies or other government incentives to produce certain products in a specified geographic region. continuing, increased competition from these companies, especially in our olefin and refining businesses, could limit our ability to increase product sales prices in response to raw material and other cost increases, or could cause us to reduce product sales prices to compete effectively, which could reduce our profitability. competitors that have greater financial resources than us may be able to invest significant capital into their businesses, including expenditures for research and development. in addition, specialty products we produce may become commoditized over time. increased competition could result in lower prices or lower sales volumes, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. interruptions of operations at our facilities may result in liabilities or lower operating results. we own and operate large-scale facilities. our operating results are dependent on the continued operation of our various production facilities and the ability to complete construction and maintenance projects on schedule. interruptions at our facilities may materially reduce the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility, or our business as a whole, during and after the period of such operational difficulties. in the past, we had to shut down plants on the u.s. gulf coast, including the temporary shutdown of our houston refinery, as a result of hurricanes striking the texas coast. in addition, because the houston refinery is our only refining operation, an outage at the refinery could have a particularly negative impact on our operating results. unlike our chemical and polymer production facilities, which may have sufficient excess capacity to mitigate the negative impact of lost production at other facilities, we do not have the ability to increase refining production elsewhere in the u.s. although we take precautions to enhance the safety of our operations and minimize the risk of disruptions, our operations are subject to hazards inherent in chemical manufacturing and refining and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes. these potential hazards include: pipeline leaks and ruptures; explosions; fires; severe weather and natural disasters; mechanical failure; unscheduled downtimes; supplier disruptions; labor shortages or other labor difficulties; transportation interruptions; remediation complications; increased restrictions on, or the unavailability of, water for use at our manufacturing sites or for the transport of our products or raw materials; chemical and oil spills; discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases; shipment of incorrect or off-specification product to customers; 25 table of contents storage tank leaks; other environmental risks; and terrorist acts. some of these hazards may cause severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment or personal injury and loss of life and may result in suspension of operations or the shutdown of affected facilities. large capital projects can take many years to complete, and market conditions could deteriorate significantly between the project approval date and the project startup date, negatively impacting project returns. if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs and in a timely manner, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs involving engineering, procurement and construction of facilities could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve forecasted internal rates of return and operating results. delays in making required changes or upgrades to our facilities could subject us to fines or penalties as well as affect our ability to supply certain products we produce. such delays or cost increases may arise as a result of unpredictable factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: denial of or delay in receiving requisite regulatory approvals and/or permits; unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor; disruptions in transportation of components or construction materials; adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires or spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors or suppliers; shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages; nonperformance by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors or subcontractors. any one or more of these factors could have a significant impact on our ongoing capital projects. if we were unable to make up the delays associated with such factors or to recover the related costs, or if market conditions change, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. increased it security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to our systems, networks, products, facilities and services. increased global information security threats and more sophisticated, targeted computer crime pose a risk to the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data, operations and infrastructure. while we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training, comprehensive monitoring of our networks and systems, and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our employees, systems, networks, products, facilities and services remain potentially vulnerable to sophisticated espionage or continual cyber-assault. depending on their nature and scope, such threats could potentially lead to the compromise of confidential information, improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitiveness and results of operations. we operate internationally and are subject to exchange rate fluctuations, exchange controls, political risks and other risks relating to international operations. we operate internationally and are subject to the risks of doing business on a global level. these risks include fluctuations in currency exchange rates, economic instability and disruptions, restrictions on the transfer 26 table of contents of funds and the imposition of duties and tariffs. additional risks from our multinational business include transportation delays and interruptions, war, terrorist activities, epidemics, pandemics, political instability, import and export controls, changes in governmental policies, labor unrest and current and changing regulatory environments. we generate revenues from export sales and operations that may be denominated in currencies other than the relevant functional currency. exchange rates between these currencies and functional currencies in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may do so in the future. it is possible that fluctuations in exchange rates will result in reduced operating results. additionally, we operate with the objective of having our worldwide cash available in the locations where it is needed, including the united kingdom for our parent company significant cash obligations as a result of dividend and interest payments. it is possible that we may not always be able to provide cash to other jurisdictions when needed or that such transfers of cash could be subject to additional taxes, including withholding taxes. our operating results could be negatively affected by the global laws, rules and regulations, as well as political environments, in the jurisdictions in which we operate. there could be reduced demand for our products, decreases in the prices at which we can sell our products and disruptions of production or other operations. additionally, there may be substantial capital and other costs to comply with regulations and/or increased security costs or insurance premiums, any of which could reduce our operating results. we obtain a substantial portion of our principal raw materials from international sources that are subject to these same risks. our compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations to which we may be subject could be challenged. furthermore, these laws may be modified, the result of which may be to prevent or limit subsidiaries from transferring cash to us. furthermore, we are subject to certain existing, and may be subject to possible future, laws that limit or may limit our activities while some of our competitors may not be subject to such laws, which may adversely affect our competitiveness. changes in tax laws and regulations could affect our tax rate and our results of operations. we are a tax resident in the united kingdom and are subject to the united kingdom corporate income tax system. lyondellbasell n.v. has little or no taxable income of its own because, as a holding company, it does not conduct any operations. through our subsidiaries, we have substantial operations world-wide. taxes are primarily paid on the earnings generated in various jurisdictions, including the united states, the netherlands, germany, france, and italy. we monitor income tax legislative developments in countries where we conduct business, including the united kingdom. recently, there has been an increase in attention, both in the u.k. and globally to the tax practices of multinational companies, including proposals by the organization for economic cooperation and development ( oecd ) with respect to base erosion and profit shifting. such attention may result in legislative changes that could affect our tax rate. management does not believe that recent changes in income tax laws will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements, although new or proposed changes to tax laws could affect our tax liabilities in the future. failure to comply with the foreign corrupt practices act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws may have an adverse effect on us. our international operations require us to comply with a number of u.s. and international laws and regulations, including those involving anti-bribery and anti-corruption. in order to effectively operate in certain foreign jurisdictions, circumstances may require that we establish joint ventures with local operators or find strategic partners. as an issuer with securities listed on a united states stock exchange, we are subject to the regulations imposed by the foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ), which generally prohibits issuers and their 27 table of contents intermediaries (including strategic or local partners or agents, even if those partners or agents are not themselves subject to the fcpa or other similar laws) from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or obtaining an improper business benefit. we have an ongoing program to promote compliance with the fcpa and other similar anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. any determination that we have violated the fcpa or other similar laws could have a material effect on our business, results of operations, and cash flows. many of our businesses depend on our intellectual property. our future success will depend in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, and our inability to do so could reduce our ability to maintain our competitiveness and margins. we have a significant worldwide patent portfolio of issued and pending patents. these patents and patent applications, together with proprietary technical know-how, are significant to our competitive position, particularly with regard to po, performance chemicals, petrochemicals, and polymers, including process technologies such as spheripol , spherizone , hostalen , spherilene , lupotech t and avant catalyst family technology rights. we rely on the patent, copyright and trade secret laws of the countries in which we operate to protect our investment in research and development, manufacturing and marketing. however, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without authorization. proceedings to protect these rights could be costly, and we may not prevail. the protection afforded by patents varies from country to country and depends upon the type of patent and its scope of coverage. while a presumption of validity may exist with respect to patents issued to us, our patents may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. as patents expire, the products and processes described and claimed under those patents become generally available for use by competitors. our continued growth strategy may bring us to regions of the world where intellectual property protection may be limited and difficult to enforce. in addition, patent rights may not prevent our competitors from developing, using or selling products that are similar or functionally equivalent to our products. moreover, our competitors or other third parties may obtain patents that restrict or preclude our ability to lawfully produce or sell our products in a competitive manner, which could result in significantly lower revenues, reduced profit margins or loss of market share. we also rely upon unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. while it is our policy to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, these confidentiality agreements may be breached, may not always be executed, may not provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies may not be available. additionally, others could obtain knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development or other access by legal or illegal means. the failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our processes, apparatuses, technology, trade secrets or proprietary know-how could result in significantly lower revenues, reduced profit margins and cash flows and/or loss of market share. we also may be subject to claims that our technology, patents or other intellectual property infringes on a third party intellectual property rights. unfavorable resolution of these claims could result in restrictions on our ability to deliver the related service or in a settlement that could be material to us. shared control or lack of control of joint ventures may delay decisions or actions regarding the joint ventures. a portion of our operations are conducted through joint ventures, where control may be exercised by or shared with unaffiliated third parties. we cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners, including any nonperformance, default or bankruptcy of joint venture partners. the joint ventures that we do not control may also lack adequate internal controls systems or financial reporting systems to provide adequate and timely information for our reporting purposes. 28 table of contents in the event that any of our joint venture partners do not observe their obligations, it is possible that the affected joint venture would not be able to operate in accordance with our business plans. as a result, we could be required to increase our level of commitment in order to give effect to such plans. differences in views among the joint venture participants also may result in delayed decisions or in failures to agree on major matters, potentially adversely affecting the business and operations of the joint ventures and in turn our business and operations. we cannot predict with certainty the extent of future costs under environmental, health and safety and other laws and regulations, and cannot guarantee they will not be material. we may face liability arising out of the normal course of business, including alleged personal injury or property damage due to exposure to chemicals or other hazardous substances at our current or former facilities or chemicals that we manufacture, handle or own. in addition, because our products are components of a variety of other end-use products, we, along with other members of the chemical industry, are subject to potential claims related to those end-use products. any substantial increase in the success of these types of claims could negatively affect our operating results. we (together with the industries in which we operate) are subject to extensive national, regional, state and local environmental laws, regulations, directives, rules and ordinances concerning: emissions to the air; discharges onto land or surface waters or into groundwater; and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials. many of these laws and regulations provide for substantial fines and potential criminal sanctions for violations. some of these laws and regulations are subject to varying and conflicting interpretations. in addition, some of these laws and regulations require us to meet specific financial responsibility requirements. any substantial liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. although we have compliance programs and other processes intended to ensure compliance with all such regulations, we are subject to the risk that our compliance with such regulations could be challenged. non-compliance with certain of these regulations could result in the incurrence of additional costs, penalties or assessments that could be material. our industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and existing, or future regulations may restrict our operations, increase our costs of operations or require us to make additional capital expenditures. compliance with regulatory requirements could result in higher operating costs, such as regulatory requirements relating to emissions, the security of our facilities, and the transportation, export or registration of our products. we generally expect that regulatory controls worldwide will become increasingly more demanding, but cannot accurately predict future developments. increasingly strict environmental laws and inspection and enforcement policies, could affect the handling, manufacture, use, emission or disposal of products, other materials or hazardous and non-hazardous waste. stricter environmental, safety and health laws, regulations and enforcement policies could result in increased operating costs or capital expenditures to comply with such laws and regulations. additionally, we are required to have permits for our businesses and are subject to licensing regulations. these permits and licenses are subject to renewal, modification and in some circumstances, revocation. further, the permits and licenses are often difficult, time consuming and costly to obtain and could contain conditions that limit our operations. 29 table of contents we may incur substantial costs to comply with climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives. there has been a broad range of proposed or promulgated state, national and international laws focusing on greenhouse gas ( ghg ) reduction. these proposed or promulgated laws apply or could apply in countries where we have interests or may have interests in the future. laws in this field continue to evolve and, while they are likely to be increasingly widespread and stringent, at this stage it is not possible to accurately estimate either a timetable for implementation or our future compliance costs relating to implementation. within the framework of the eu emissions trading scheme ( ets ), we were allocated certain allowances of carbon dioxide for the affected plants of our european sites for the period from 2008 to 2012 ( ets ii period ). the ets ii period did not bring additional cost to us as the allowance allocation was sufficient to cover the actual emissions of the affected plants. we were able to build an allowance surplus during the ets ii period which has been banked to the scheme for the period from 2013 to 2020 ( ets iii period ). we expect to incur additional costs for the ets iii period, despite the allowance surplus accrued over the ets ii period, as allowance allocations have been reduced for the ets iii period and more of our plants are affected by the scheme. we maintain an active hedging strategy to cover these additional costs. we expect to incur additional costs in relation to future carbon or ghg emission trading schemes. in the u.s., the environmental protection agency (the epa ) has promulgated federal ghg regulations under the clean air act affecting certain sources. the epa has issued mandatory ghg reporting requirements, requirements to obtain ghg permits for certain industrial plants and proposals for ghg performance standards for some facilities. the recent epa action could be a precursor to further federal regulation of carbon dioxide emissions and other greenhouse gases, and may affect the outcome of other climate change lawsuits pending in u.s. courts in a manner unfavorable to our industry. in any event, additional regulation may be forthcoming at the u.s. federal or state level with respect to ghg emissions, and such regulation could result in the creation of additional costs in the form of taxes or required acquisition or trading of emission allowances. compliance with these or other changes in laws, regulations and obligations that create a ghg emissions trading scheme or ghg reduction policies generally could significantly increase our costs or reduce demand for products we produce. additionally, compliance with these regulations may result in increased permitting necessary for the operation of our business or for any of our growth plans. difficulties in obtaining such permits could have an adverse effect on our future growth. therefore, any future potential regulations and legislation could result in increased compliance costs, additional operating restrictions or delays in implementing growth projects or other capital investments, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we may be required to record material charges against our earnings due to any number of events that could cause impairments to our assets. we may be required to reduce production at or idle facilities for extended periods of time or exit certain businesses as a result of the cyclical nature of our industry. specifically, oversupplies of or lack of demand for particular products or high raw material prices may cause us to reduce production. we may choose to reduce production at certain facilities because we have off-take arrangements at other facilities, which make any reductions or idling unavailable at those facilities. any decision to permanently close facilities or exit a business likely would result in impairment and other charges to earnings. temporary outages at our facilities can last for several quarters and sometimes longer. these outages could cause us to incur significant costs, including the expenses of maintaining and restarting these facilities. in addition, even though we may reduce production at facilities, we may be required to continue to purchase or pay for utilities or raw materials under take-or-pay supply agreements. 30 table of contents our business is capital intensive and we rely on cash generated from operations and external financing to fund our growth and ongoing capital needs. limitations on access to external financing could adversely affect our operating results. we require significant capital to operate our current business and fund our growth strategy. moreover, interest payments, dividends and the expansion of our business or other business opportunities may require significant amounts of capital. we believe that our cash from operations currently will be sufficient to meet these needs. however, if we need external financing, our access to credit markets and pricing of our capital is dependent upon maintaining sufficient credit ratings from credit rating agencies and the state of the capital markets generally. there can be no assurances that we would be able to incur indebtedness on terms we deem acceptable, and it is possible that the cost of any financings could increase significantly, thereby increasing our expenses and decreasing our net income. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or raise adequate external financing, including as a result of significant disruptions in the global credit markets, we could be forced to restrict our operations and growth opportunities, which could adversely affect our operating results. we may use our five-year, $2 billion revolving credit facility, which backs our commercial paper program, to meet our cash needs, to the extent available. as of december 31, 2015, we had no borrowings or letters of credit outstanding under the facility and $323 million outstanding under our commercial paper program, leaving an unused and available credit capacity of $1,631 million. we may also meet our cash needs by selling receivables under our $900 million u.s. accounts receivable securitization facility or our 450 million european accounts receivable securitization facility. in the event of a default under our credit facility or any of our senior notes, we could be required to immediately repay all outstanding borrowings and make cash deposits as collateral for all obligations the facility supports, which we may not be able to do. any default under any of our credit arrangements could cause a default under many of our other credit agreements and debt instruments. without waivers from lenders party to those agreements, any such default could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to operate. legislation and regulatory initiatives could lead to a decrease in demand for our products. new or revised governmental regulations and independent studies relating to the effect of our products on health, safety and the environment may affect demand for our products and the cost of producing our products. initiatives by governments and private interest groups will potentially require increased toxicological testing and risk assessments of a wide variety of chemicals, including chemicals used or produced by us. for example, in the united states, the national toxicology program ( ntp ) is a federal interagency program that seeks to identify and select for study chemicals and other substances to evaluate potential human health hazards. in the european union, the regulation on registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemicals ( reach ) is regulation designed to identify the intrinsic properties of chemical substances, assess hazards and risks of the substances, and identify and implement the risk management measures to protect humans and the environment. assessments under ntp, reach or similar programs or regulations in other jurisdictions may result in heightened concerns about the chemicals we use or produce and may result in additional requirements being placed on the production, handling, labeling or use of those chemicals. such concerns and additional requirements could also increase the cost incurred by our customers to use our chemical products and otherwise limit the use of these products, which could lead to a decrease in demand for these products. such a decrease in demand could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. adverse results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect us. we are subject to and may in the future be subject to a variety of legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business. results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. irrespective of its merits, litigation may be both lengthy and disruptive to our operations and may cause significant expenditure and diversion of management attention. we may be faced with significant monetary 31 table of contents damages or injunctive relief against us that could materially adversely affect a portion of our business operations or materially and adversely affect our financial position and our results of operations should we fail to prevail in certain matters. significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions relating to pension costs may adversely affect the valuation of pension obligations, the funded status of pension plans, and our pension cost. our pension cost is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure pension obligations, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations at the measurement date and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets may result in corresponding increases and decreases in the value of plan assets, particularly equity securities, or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. any change in key actuarial assumptions, such as the discount rate, would impact the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported funded status of our pension plans as well as the net periodic pension cost in the following fiscal years. certain of our current pension plans could have projected benefit obligations that exceed the fair value of the plan assets. as of december 31, 2015, the aggregate deficit was $871 million. any declines in the fair values of the pension plans assets could require additional payments by us in order to maintain specified funding levels. our pension plans are subject to legislative and regulatory requirements of applicable jurisdictions, which could include, under certain circumstances, local governmental authority to terminate the plan. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for discussion of lyondellbasell industries n.v. management of commodity price risk, foreign currency exposure and interest rate risk through its use of derivative instruments and hedging activities. commodity price risk a substantial portion of our products and raw materials are commodities whose prices fluctuate as market supply and demand fundamentals change. accordingly, product margins and the level of our profitability tend to fluctuate with changes in the business cycle. we try to protect against such instability through various business strategies. these include provisions in sales contracts allowing us to pass on higher raw material costs through timely price increases, formula price contracts to transfer or share commodity price risk, and increasing the depth and breadth of our product portfolio. in addition, we selectively use commodity swap and futures contracts with various terms to manage the volatility related to raw materials and product sales. such contracts are generally limited to durations of one year or less. hedge accounting has not been elected for any of our commodity contracts in any of the periods presented. market risks created by these derivative instruments and the mark-to-market valuations of open positions are considered by management prior to execution and monitored daily. the estimated fair value and notional amounts of our open commodity futures contracts and swap contracts are shown in the table below: december 31, 2015 notional amounts millions of dollars fair value value volumes volume unit maturity dates futures: crude/distillates (2 ) $ 57 252 million gallons october 2016 heating oil $ 10 9 million gallons february 2016 - april 2016 butane 1 1 8 million gallons february 2016 crude oil 7 72 78 million gallons february 2016 - may 2016 $ 6 $ 140 december 31, 2014 notional amounts millions of dollars fair value value volumes volume unit maturity dates futures: heating oil (1 ) 28 15 million gallons january 2015 crude oil 2 million gallons february 2015 $ 1 $ 28 we use value at risk ( var ), stress testing and scenario analysis for risk measurement and control purposes. 68 table of contents var estimates the maximum potential loss in fair market values, given a certain move in prices over a certain period of time, using specified confidence levels. using sensitivity analysis and hypothetical changes in market prices ranging from 12% to 28%, which represent a three month volatility range of the underlying products, the effect on our pretax income would be $11 million. the quantitative information about market risk is necessarily limited because it does not take into account the effects of the underlying operating transactions. foreign exchange risk we manufacture and market our products in a number of countries throughout the world and, as a result, are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we enter into transactions in currencies other than the applicable functional currency. a significant portion of our reporting entities use the euro as their functional currency. our reporting currency is the u.s. dollar. the translation gains or losses that result from the process of translating the euro denominated financial statements to u.s. dollars are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income ( aoci ) until such time as those entities may be liquidated or sold. changes in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro can therefore have a significant impact on comprehensive income. in september 2015, we entered into 850 million ($944 million) cross-currency floating-to-floating interest rate swaps ( basis swaps ) to reduce the volatility from foreign currency fluctuations associated with our net investment in foreign operations. these swaps, which have been classified as net investment hedges, will mature between september 2016 and september 2018. under these contracts, we will make interest payments in euros at 3 month euribor plus basis and will receive interest in u.s. dollars at 3 month libor. upon the maturities of these contracts, we will pay the principal amount in euros and receive u.s. dollars from our counterparties. at december 31, 2015, a 10% fluctuation in foreign currency rates would have had a $92 million impact on other comprehensive income (loss). a 10% fluctuation in the euribor and libor rates at december 31, 2015 would have had an immaterial impact on other comprehensive income (loss). in december 2015, we also entered into 750 million ($795 million) of forward exchange contracts to reduce the volatility from foreign currency fluctuations associated with our net investment in foreign operations. these forward exchange contracts, which have been designated as net investment hedges, require us to sell 750 million on march 31, 2016 at the contracted forward exchange rate. at december 31, 2015, a 10% fluctuation in the euro / usd dollar rate would have had a 75 million ($82 million) impact on other comprehensive income (loss). some of our operations enter into transactions that are not denominated in their functional currency. this results in exposure to foreign currency risk for financial instruments, including, but not limited to third party and intercompany receivables and payables and intercompany loans. we maintain risk management control practices to monitor the foreign currency risk attributable to our inter-company and third party outstanding foreign currency balances. these practices involve the centralization of our exposure to underlying currencies that are not subject to central bank and/or country specific restrictions. by centralizing most of our foreign currency exposure into one subsidiary, we are able to take advantage of any natural offsets thereby reducing the overall impact of changes in foreign currency rates on our earnings. at december 31, 2015, a 10% fluctuation compared to the u.s. dollar in the underlying currencies that have no central bank or other currency restrictions related to non-hedged monetary net assets would have had a resulting additional impact to earnings of approximately $1 million. our policy is to maintain an approximately balanced position in foreign currencies to minimize exchange gains and losses arising from changes in exchange rates. to minimize the effects of our net currency exchange exposures, we enter into foreign currency spot and forward contracts and, in some cases, cross-currency swaps. 69 table of contents we also engage in short-term foreign exchange swaps in order to roll certain hedge positions and to make funds available for intercompany financing. our net position in foreign currencies is monitored daily. we have entered into $2,300 million of non-cancellable cross-currency swaps, which we designated as foreign currency cash flow hedges, to reduce the variability in the functional currency equivalent cash flows of certain foreign currency denominated intercompany notes. for a summary of the estimated fair value and notional amounts for our cross-currency swaps outstanding at december 31, 2015, see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. for 2015, 2014, and 2013, other income (expense), net in the consolidated statements of income reflected a loss of $7 million, a gain of $15 million, and a loss of $4 million, respectively, in net exchange rate gains and losses. for forward contracts, including swap transactions, that economically hedge recognized monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies, no hedge accounting is applied. changes in the fair value of foreign currency forward contracts are reported in the consolidated statements of income and offset the currency exchange results recognized on the assets and liabilities. interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate risk with respect to our fixed and variable rate debt. fluctuations in interest rates impact the fair value of fixed-rate debt as well as pretax earnings stemming from interest expense on variable-rate debt. fixed-rate debt in 2015, we entered into forward-starting interest rate swaps to mitigate the risk of adverse changes in the benchmark interest rates on the anticipated refinancing of our senior notes due 2019. these interest rate swaps are designated as cash flow hedges. at december 31, 2015, the total notional amount of these forward-starting interest rate swaps was $1,000 million. in 2014, we entered into u.s. dollar fixed-for-floating interest rate swaps as part of our interest rate risk management strategy to create a balance of fixed and floating rate debt. these interest rate swaps are designated as fair value hedges. at december 31, 2015, we had outstanding interest rate swap agreements with notional amounts totaling $2,000 million, maturing on april 15, 2019. at december 31, 2015, after giving consideration to the $2,000 million of fixed-rate debt that we have effectively converted to floating through these u.s. dollar fixed-for-floating interest rate swaps, approximately 72% of our debt portfolio, on a gross basis, incurred interest at a fixed-rate and the remaining 28% of the portfolio incurred interest at a variable-rate. we estimate that a 10% change in market interest rates as of december 31, 2015 would change the fair value of our interest rate swaps outstanding and would have had a resulting impact on our pretax income of approximately $9 million. for additional information related to these interest rate swaps, see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. variable-rate debt our variable rate debt consists of our $2,000 million senior revolving credit facility, our $900 million u.s. receivables securitization facility, our 450 million european receivables securitization facility and $323 million outstanding at december 31, 2015 under our commercial paper program. at december 31, 2015, there were no outstanding borrowings under our senior revolving credit facility and u.s. and european receivables facilities. we estimate that a 10% change in interest rates would not have had a material impact on earnings. 70 table of contentsrisk factors ; part i, item 3. legal proceedings ; part ii, item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation s; and notes 2 and 19 to the consolidated financial statements. we have made, and intend to continue to make, the expenditures necessary for compliance with applicable laws and regulations relating to environmental, health and safety matters. we incurred capital expenditures of $192 million in 2016 for health, safety and environmental compliance purposes and improvement programs, and estimate such expenditures to be approximately $200 million in 2017 and $180 million in 2018. 11 table of contents while capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance, including compliance with potential legislation and potential regulation related to climate change, cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not believe they will have a material effect on our competitive position. while there can be no assurance that physical risks to our facilities and supply chain due to climate change will not occur in the future, we do not believe these risks are material in the near term. employee relations as of december 31, 2016, we employed approximately 13,000 full-time and part-time employees around the world. of this total, 6,300 were located in north america and another 5,800 were located in europe. the remainder of our employees is in other global locations. as of december 31, 2016, approximately 830 of our employees in north america were represented by labor unions. the vast majority of our employees in europe and south america are subject to staff council or works council coverage or collective bargaining agreements. in addition to our own employees, we use the services of contractors in the routine conduct of our businesses. 12 table of contents executive officers of the registrant our executive officers as of february 1, 2017 were as follows: name and age significant experience bhavesh v. ( bob ) patel, 50 chief executive officer and chairman of the management board since january 2015. executive vice president, olefins and polyolefins eai and technology from october 2013 and member of the management board from april 2014 to january 2015. senior vice president, olefins and polyolefins eai and technology from november 2010 to october 2013. senior vice president, olefins and polyolefins americas from march 2010 to june 2011. general manager, olefins and ngls of chevron phillips chemical company from 2009 to 2010. thomas aebischer, 55 executive vice president and chief financial officer since january 2016. chief financial officer of lafargeholcim from july 2015 to december 2015. chief financial officer of holcim ltd. from january 2011 to june 2015. kevin w. brown, 59 executive vice president, manufacturing and refining since january 2015 and member of the management board since may 2015. senior vice president, refining from october 2009 to january 2015. director of sinclair oil from january 2006 to september 2009. executive vice president, operations of sinclair oil from june 2004 to september 2009. dan m. coombs, 60 executive vice president, global olefins and polyolefins, and technology since january 2016. executive vice president, intermediates and derivatives from may 2015 to january 2016. senior vice president of manufacturing for chevron phillips chemical from december 2013 to may 2015. senior vice president for specialties, aromatics and styrenics for chevron phillips chemical from december 2011 to november 2013. vice president of corporate planning and development for chevron phillips chemical from september 2011 to november 2011. 13 table of contents name and age significant experience deputy general manager for qatar chemical company limited development and vice president qatar for chevron phillips chemical from april 2010 to september 2011. massimo covezzi, 59 senior vice president, research and development since january 2008. james guilfoyle, 46 senior vice president, global intermediates and derivatives since june 2015. vice president of global propylene oxide and co-products from march 2015 to may 2015. director of polymer sales americas from january 2012 to february 2015. director of high density polyethylene from november 2006 to december 2011. jeffrey a. kaplan, 48 executive vice president and chief legal officer since march 2015 and member of the management board since may 2015. deputy general counsel from december 2009 to march 2015. michael vandersnick, 52 senior vice president, health, safety, security and environment since june 2015. senior vice president, manufacturing eai from july 2012 to june 2015. site manager of the company channelview, matagorda, chocolate bayou and bayport, texas plants from 2004 to 2012. jacquelyn h. wolf, 55 senior vice president and chief human resources officer since september 2012. senior vice president and chief human resources officer for celanese, inc. from december 2009 to july 2012. executive vice president and chief human resources officer for comerica bank from january 2006 to december 2009. 14 table of contents description of properties our principal manufacturing facilities as of december 31, 2016 are set forth below, and are identified by the principal segment or segments using the facility. all of the facilities are wholly owned, except as otherwise noted. location segment americas bayport (pasadena), texas i&amp;d bayport (pasadena), texas(1) i&amp;d bayport (pasadena), texas o&amp;p americas channelview, texas(2) o&amp;p americas channelview, texas(1)(2)(3) i&amp;d chocolate bayou, texas o&amp;p americas clinton, iowa o&amp;p americas corpus christi, texas o&amp;p americas edison, new jersey o&amp;p americas houston, texas refining la porte, texas(4) o&amp;p americas la porte, texas(4)(5) i&amp;d lake charles, louisiana o&amp;p americas matagorda, texas o&amp;p americas morris, illinois o&amp;p americas tuscola, illinois o&amp;p americas victoria, texas o&amp;p americas europe berre l etang, france o&amp;p eai botlek, rotterdam, the netherlands i&amp;d brindisi, italy o&amp;p eai carrington, uk o&amp;p eai ferrara, italy o&amp;p eai technology fos-sur-mer, france i&amp;d frankfurt, germany o&amp;p eai technology knapsack, germany o&amp;p eai ludwigshafen, germany technology maasvlakte, the netherlands(6) i&amp;d moerdijk, the netherlands o&amp;p eai m&uuml;nchsm&uuml;nster, germany o&amp;p eai tarragona, spain(7) o&amp;p eai wesseling, germany o&amp;p eai asia pacific geelong, australia o&amp;p eai 15 table of contents the facility is located on leased land. (1) the bayport po/tba plants and the channelview po/sm i plant are held by the u.s. po joint venture between covestro and lyondell chemical company. these plants are located on land leased by the u.s. po joint venture. (2) equistar chemicals, lp operates a styrene maleic anhydride unit and a polybutadiene unit, which are owned by an unrelated party and are located within the channelview facility on property leased from equistar chemicals, lp. (3) unrelated equity investors hold a minority interest in the po/sm ii plant at the channelview facility. (4) the la porte facilities are on contiguous property. (5) the la porte methanol facility is owned by la porte methanol company, a partnership owned 85% by us. (6) the maasvlakte plant is owned by the european po joint venture and is located on land leased by the european po joint venture. (7) the tarragona pp facility is located on leased land; the compounds facility is located on co-owned land. other locations and properties we maintain executive offices in london, the united kingdom; rotterdam, the netherlands; and houston, texas. we maintain research facilities in lansing, michigan; channelview, texas; cincinnati, ohio; ferrara, italy and frankfurt, germany. our asia pacific headquarters are in hong kong. we also have technical support centers in bayreuth, germany; geelong, australia and tarragona, spain. we have various sales facilities worldwide. website access to sec reports our internet website address is http://www.lyb.com . information contained on our internet website is not part of this report on form 10-k. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are available on our website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with, or furnished to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission. alternatively, you may access these reports at the sec website at http://www.sec.gov . item 1a. risk factors. you should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k. each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. our business, including our results of operations and reputation, could be adversely affected by safety or product liability issues. failure to appropriately manage safety, human health, product liability and environmental risks associated with our products, product life cycles and production processes could adversely impact employees, communities, stakeholders, our reputation and our results of operations. public perception of the risks associated with our products and production processes could impact product acceptance and influence the regulatory environment in which we operate. while we have procedures and controls to manage safety risks, issues could be created by events outside of our control, including natural disasters, severe weather events and acts of sabotage. 16 table of contents our operations are subject to risks inherent in chemical and refining businesses, and we could be subject to liabilities for which we are not fully insured or that are not otherwise mitigated. we maintain property, business interruption, product, general liability, casualty and other types of insurance that we believe are appropriate for our business and operations as well as in line with customary industry practices. however, we are not fully insured against all potential hazards incident to our business, including losses resulting from natural disasters, wars or terrorist acts. changes in insurance market conditions have caused, and may in the future cause, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies to increase substantially and, in some instances, for certain insurance to become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. if we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, we might not be able to finance the amount of the uninsured liability on terms acceptable to us or at all, and might be obligated to divert a significant portion of our cash flow from normal business operations. further, because a part of our business involves licensing polyolefin process technology, our licensees are exposed to similar risks involved in the manufacture and marketing of polyolefins. hazardous incidents involving our licensees, if they do result or are perceived to result from use of our technologies, may harm our reputation, threaten our relationships with other licensees and/or lead to customer attrition and financial losses. our policy of covering these risks through contractual limitations of liability and indemnities and through insurance may not always be effective. as a result, our financial condition and results of operation would be adversely affected, and other companies with competing technologies may have the opportunity to secure a competitive advantage. a sustained decrease in the price of crude oil may adversely impact the results of our operations, primarily in north america. energy costs generally follow price trends of crude oil and natural gas. these price trends may be highly volatile and cyclical. in the past, raw material and energy costs have experienced significant fluctuations that adversely affected our business segments results of operations. for example, we have benefitted from the favorable ratio of u.s. natural gas prices to crude oil prices in recent years. this advantage was reduced as oil prices declined beginning in 2014. if the price of crude oil remains lower relative to u.s. natural gas prices or if the demand for natural gas and ngls increases, this may have a negative impact on our results of operations. costs and limitations on supply of raw materials and energy may result in increased operating expenses. the costs of raw materials and energy represent a substantial portion of our operating expenses. due to the significant competition we face and the commodity nature of many of our products we are not always able to pass on raw material and energy cost increases to our customers. when we do have the ability to pass on the cost increases, we are not always able to do so quickly enough to avoid adverse impacts on our results of operations. cost increases for raw materials also may increase working capital needs, which could reduce our liquidity and cash flow. even if we increase our sales prices to reflect rising raw material and energy costs, demand for products may decrease as customers reduce their consumption or use substitute products, which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. in addition, producers in natural gas cost-advantaged regions, such as the middle east and north america, benefit from the lower prices of natural gas and ngls. competition from producers in these regions may cause us to reduce exports from europe and elsewhere. any such reductions may increase competition for product sales within europe and other markets, which can result in lower margins in those regions. for some of our raw materials and utilities there are a limited number of suppliers and, in some cases, the supplies are specific to the particular geographic region in which a facility is located. it is also common in the chemical and refining industries for a facility to have a sole, dedicated source for its utilities, such as steam, electricity and gas. having a sole or limited number of suppliers may limit our negotiating power, particularly in 17 table of contents the case of rising raw material costs. any new supply agreements we enter into may not have terms as favorable as those contained in our current supply agreements. additionally, there is growing concern over the reliability of water sources, including around the texas gulf coast where several of our facilities are located. the decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result of population growth, drought or regulation could negatively impact our operations. if our raw material or utility supplies were disrupted, our businesses may incur increased costs to procure alternative supplies or incur excessive downtime, which would have a direct negative impact on plant operations. disruptions of supplies may occur as a result of transportation issues including, but not limited to, as a result of natural disasters and water levels that can affect the operations of vessels, barges, rails, trucks and pipeline traffic. these risks are particularly prevalent in the u.s. gulf coast area. additionally, the export of ngls from the u.s., greater restrictions on hydraulic fracturing or the lifting by the u.s. government of the ban on u.s. crude oil exports could restrict the availability of our raw materials, thereby increasing our costs. with increased volatility in raw material costs, our suppliers could impose more onerous terms on us, resulting in shorter payment cycles and increasing our working capital requirements. our ability to source raw materials may be adversely affected by political instability, civil disturbances or other governmental actions. we obtain a portion of our principal raw materials from sources in north africa, the middle east, and central and south america that may be less politically stable than other areas in which we conduct business, such as europe or the u.s. political instability, civil disturbances and actions by governments in these areas are likely to substantially increase the price and decrease the supply of raw materials necessary for our operations, which will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. increased incidents of civil unrest, including terrorist attacks and demonstrations that have been marked by violence, have occurred in a number of countries in north africa and the middle east. some political regimes in these countries are threatened or have changed as a result of such unrest. political instability and civil unrest could continue to spread in the region and involve other areas. such unrest, if it continues to spread or grow in intensity, could lead to civil wars, regional conflicts, or regime changes resulting in governments that are hostile to countries in which we conduct substantial business, such as in europe, the u.s., or their respective trading partners. economic disruptions and downturns in general, and particularly continued global economic uncertainty or economic turmoil in emerging markets, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. our results of operations can be materially affected by adverse conditions in the financial markets and depressed economic conditions generally. economic downturns in the businesses and geographic areas in which we sell our products substantially reduce demand for our products and result in decreased sales volumes and increased credit risk. recessionary environments adversely affect our business because demand for our products is reduced, particularly from our customers in industrial markets generally and the automotive and housing industries specifically, and may result in higher costs of capital. a significant portion of our revenues and earnings are derived from our business in europe, including southern europe. in addition, most of our european transactions and assets, including cash reserves and receivables, are denominated in euros. if a sustained financial crisis in europe leads to a further significant devaluation of the euro, the value of our financial assets that are denominated in euros would be significantly reduced when translated to u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. we also derive significant revenues from our business in emerging markets, particularly the emerging markets in asia and south america. any broad-based downturn in these emerging 18 table of contents markets, or in a key market such as china, could require us to reduce export volumes into these markets and could also require us to divert product sales to less profitable markets. any of these conditions could ultimately harm our overall business, prospects, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. the cyclicality and volatility of the industries in which we participate may cause significant fluctuations in our operating results. our business operations are subject to the cyclical and volatile nature of the supply-demand balance in the chemical and refining industries. our future operating results are expected to continue to be affected by this cyclicality and volatility. the chemical and refining industries historically have experienced alternating periods of capacity shortages, causing prices and profit margins to increase, followed by periods of excess capacity, resulting in oversupply, declining capacity utilization rates and declining prices and profit margins. in addition to changes in the supply and demand for products, changes in energy prices and other worldwide economic conditions can cause volatility. these factors result in significant fluctuations in profits and cash flow from period to period and over business cycles. new capacity additions in asia, the middle east and north america may lead to periods of oversupply and lower profitability. a sizable number of expansions have been announced in north america. the timing and extent of any changes to currently prevailing market conditions are uncertain and supply and demand may be unbalanced at any time. as a consequence, we are unable to accurately predict the extent or duration of future industry cycles or their effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we sell products in highly competitive global markets and face significant price pressures. we sell our products in highly competitive global markets. due to the commodity nature of many of our products, competition in these markets is based primarily on price and, to a lesser extent, on product performance, product quality, product deliverability, reliability of supply and customer service. often, we are not able to protect our market position for these products by product differentiation and may not be able to pass on cost increases to our customers due to the significant competition in our business. in addition, we face increased competition from companies that may have greater financial resources and different cost structures or strategic goals than us. these include large integrated oil companies (some of which also have chemical businesses), government-owned businesses, and companies that receive subsidies or other government incentives to produce certain products in a specified geographic region. continuing, increased competition from these companies, especially in our olefin and refining businesses, could limit our ability to increase product sales prices in response to raw material and other cost increases, or could cause us to reduce product sales prices to compete effectively, which could reduce our profitability. competitors with different cost structures or strategic goals than we have may be able to invest significant capital into their businesses, including expenditures for research and development. in addition, specialty products we produce may become commoditized over time. increased competition could result in lower prices or lower sales volumes, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. interruptions of operations at our facilities may result in liabilities or lower operating results. we own and operate large-scale facilities. our operating results are dependent on the continued operation of our various production facilities and the ability to complete construction and maintenance projects on schedule. interruptions at our facilities may materially reduce the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility, or our business as a whole, during and after the period of such operational difficulties. in the past, we had to shut down plants on the u.s. gulf coast, including the temporary shutdown of our houston refinery, as a result of hurricanes striking the texas coast. 19 table of contents in addition, because the houston refinery is our only refining operation, an outage at the refinery could have a particularly negative impact on our operating results. unlike our chemical and polymer production facilities, which may have sufficient excess capacity to mitigate the negative impact of lost production at other facilities, we do not have the ability to increase refining production elsewhere in the u.s. although we take precautions to enhance the safety of our operations and minimize the risk of disruptions, our operations are subject to hazards inherent in chemical manufacturing and refining and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes. these potential hazards include: pipeline leaks and ruptures; explosions; fires; severe weather and natural disasters; mechanical failure; unscheduled downtimes; supplier disruptions; labor shortages or other labor difficulties; transportation interruptions; remediation complications; increased restrictions on, or the unavailability of, water for use at our manufacturing sites or for the transport of our products or raw materials; chemical and oil spills; discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases; shipment of incorrect or off-specification product to customers; storage tank leaks; other environmental risks; and terrorist acts. some of these hazards may cause severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment or personal injury and loss of life and may result in suspension of operations or the shutdown of affected facilities. large capital projects can take many years to complete, and market conditions could deteriorate significantly between the project approval date and the project startup date, negatively impacting project returns. if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs and in a timely manner, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs involving engineering, procurement and construction of facilities could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve forecasted internal rates of return and operating results. delays in making required changes or upgrades to our facilities could subject us to fines or penalties as well as affect our ability to supply certain products we produce. such delays or cost increases may arise as a result of unpredictable factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: denial of or delay in receiving requisite regulatory approvals and/or permits; unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor; 20 table of contents disruptions in transportation of components or construction materials; adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires or spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors or suppliers; shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages; and nonperformance by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors or subcontractors. any one or more of these factors could have a significant impact on our ongoing capital projects. if we were unable to make up the delays associated with such factors or to recover the related costs, or if market conditions change, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. increased it security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to our systems, networks, products, facilities and services. increased global information security threats and more sophisticated, targeted computer crime pose a risk to the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data, operations and infrastructure. while we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including security measures, employee training, comprehensive monitoring of our networks and systems, and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our employees, systems, networks, products, facilities and services remain potentially vulnerable to sophisticated espionage or cyber-assault. depending on their nature and scope, such threats could potentially lead to the compromise of confidential information, improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitiveness and results of operations. we operate internationally and are subject to exchange rate fluctuations, exchange controls, political risks and other risks relating to international operations. we operate internationally and are subject to the risks of doing business on a global level. these risks include fluctuations in currency exchange rates, economic instability and disruptions, restrictions on the transfer of funds and the imposition of duties and tariffs. additional risks from our multinational business include transportation delays and interruptions, war, terrorist activities, epidemics, pandemics, political instability, import and export controls, changes in governmental policies, labor unrest and current and changing regulatory environments. we generate revenues from export sales and operations that may be denominated in currencies other than the relevant functional currency. exchange rates between these currencies and functional currencies in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may do so in the future. it is possible that fluctuations in exchange rates will result in reduced operating results. additionally, we operate with the objective of having our worldwide cash available in the locations where it is needed, including the united kingdom for our parent company significant cash obligations as a result of dividend and interest payments. it is possible that we may not always be able to provide cash to other jurisdictions when needed or that such transfers of cash could be subject to additional taxes, including withholding taxes. our operating results could be negatively affected by the global laws, rules and regulations, as well as political environments, in the jurisdictions in which we operate. there could be reduced demand for our products, decreases in the prices at which we can sell our products and disruptions of production or other operations. additionally, there may be substantial capital and other costs to comply with regulations and/or increased security costs or insurance premiums, any of which could reduce our operating results. 21 table of contents we obtain a portion of our principal raw materials from international sources that are subject to these same risks. our compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations to which we may be subject could be challenged. furthermore, these laws may be modified, the result of which may be to prevent or limit subsidiaries from transferring cash to us. furthermore, we are subject to certain existing, and may be subject to possible future, laws that limit or may limit our activities while some of our competitors may not be subject to such laws, which may adversely affect our competitiveness. changes in tax laws and regulations could affect our tax rate and our results of operations. we are a tax resident in the united kingdom and are subject to the united kingdom corporate income tax system. lyondellbasell n.v. has little or no taxable income of its own because, as a holding company, it does not conduct any operations. through our subsidiaries, we have substantial operations world-wide. taxes are primarily paid on the earnings generated in various jurisdictions, including the united states, the netherlands, germany, france, and italy. a portion of the company interest income from internal financing is either untaxed or taxed at rates substantially lower than the u.s. statutory rate. in september 2016, the uk enacted provisions (the so called anti-hybrid provisions ), effective for years beginning january 1, 2017, that will impact our internal financing structure. in addition, in october 2016 the u.s. treasury issued final section 385 debt-equity regulations that may also impact our internal financings. we monitor income tax legislative developments (including, for example, the u.s. tax reform proposals and the european union state aid investigations) in countries where we conduct business. recently, there has been an increase in attention, both in the u.k. and globally, to the tax practices of multinational companies, including proposals by the organization for economic cooperation and development with respect to base erosion and profit shifting. such attention may result in legislative changes that could adversely affect our tax rate. management does not believe that recent changes in income tax laws will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements, although new or proposed changes to tax laws could affect our tax liabilities in the future. many of our businesses depend on our intellectual property. our future success will depend in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, and our inability to do so could reduce our ability to maintain our competitiveness and margins. we have a significant worldwide patent portfolio of issued and pending patents. these patents and patent applications, together with proprietary technical know-how, are significant to our competitive position, particularly with regard to po, performance chemicals, petrochemicals, and polymers. we rely on the patent, copyright and trade secret laws of the countries in which we operate to protect our investment in research and development, manufacturing and marketing. however, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without authorization. proceedings to protect these rights could be costly, and we may not prevail. the failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our processes, apparatuses, technology, trade secrets or proprietary know-how could result in significantly lower revenues, reduced profit margins and cash flows and/or loss of market share. we also may be subject to claims that our technology, patents or other intellectual property infringes on a third party intellectual property rights. unfavorable resolution of these claims could result in restrictions on our ability to deliver the related service or in a settlement that could be material to us. 22 table of contents shared control or lack of control of joint ventures may delay decisions or actions regarding the joint ventures. a portion of our operations are conducted through joint ventures, where control may be exercised by or shared with unaffiliated third parties. we cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners, including any nonperformance, default or bankruptcy of joint venture partners. the joint ventures that we do not control may also lack financial reporting systems to provide adequate and timely information for our reporting purposes. our joint venture partners may have different interests or goals than we do and may take actions contrary to our requests, policies or objectives. differences in views among the joint venture participants also may result in delayed decisions or in failures to agree on major matters, potentially adversely affecting the business and operations of the joint ventures and in turn our business and operations. we may develop a dispute with any of our partners over decisions affecting the venture that may result in litigation, arbitration or some other form of dispute resolution. if a joint venture participant acts contrary to our interest, it could harm our brand, business, results of operations and financial condition. we cannot predict with certainty the extent of future costs under environmental, health and safety and other laws and regulations, and cannot guarantee they will not be material. we may face liability arising out of the normal course of business, including alleged personal injury or property damage due to exposure to chemicals or other hazardous substances at our current or former facilities or chemicals that we manufacture, handle or own. in addition, because our products are components of a variety of other end-use products, we, along with other members of the chemical industry, are subject to potential claims related to those end-use products. any substantial increase in the success of these types of claims could negatively affect our operating results. we (together with the industries in which we operate) are subject to extensive national, regional, state and local environmental laws, regulations, directives, rules and ordinances concerning: emissions to the air; discharges onto land or surface waters or into groundwater; and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials. many of these laws and regulations provide for substantial fines and potential criminal sanctions for violations. some of these laws and regulations are subject to varying and conflicting interpretations. in addition, some of these laws and regulations require us to meet specific financial responsibility requirements. any substantial liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. although we have compliance programs and other processes intended to ensure compliance with all such regulations, we are subject to the risk that our compliance with such regulations could be challenged. non-compliance with certain of these regulations could result in the incurrence of additional costs, penalties or assessments that could be material. our industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and existing, or future regulations may restrict our operations, increase our costs of operations or require us to make additional capital expenditures. compliance with regulatory requirements could result in higher operating costs, such as regulatory requirements relating to emissions, the security of our facilities, and the transportation, export or registration of our products. we generally expect that regulatory controls worldwide will become increasingly more demanding, but cannot accurately predict future developments. 23 table of contents increasingly strict environmental laws and inspection and enforcement policies, could affect the handling, manufacture, use, emission or disposal of products, other materials or hazardous and non-hazardous waste. stricter environmental, safety and health laws, regulations and enforcement policies could result in increased operating costs or capital expenditures to comply with such laws and regulations. additionally, we are required to have permits for our businesses and are subject to licensing regulations. these permits and licenses are subject to renewal, modification and in some circumstances, revocation. further, the permits and licenses are often difficult, time consuming and costly to obtain and could contain conditions that limit our operations. we may incur substantial costs to comply with climate change legislation and related regulatory initiatives. there has been a broad range of proposed or promulgated state, national and international laws focusing on greenhouse gas ( ghg ) reduction. these proposed or promulgated laws apply or could apply in countries where we have interests or may have interests in the future. laws in this field continue to evolve and, while they are likely to be increasingly widespread and stringent, at this stage it is not possible to accurately estimate either a timetable for implementation or our future compliance costs relating to implementation. within the framework of the eu emissions trading scheme ( ets ), we were allocated certain allowances of carbon dioxide for the affected plants of our european sites for the period from 2008 to 2012 ( ets ii period ). the ets ii period did not bring additional cost to us as the allowance allocation was sufficient to cover the actual emissions of the affected plants. we were able to build an allowance surplus during the ets ii period which has been banked to the scheme for the period from 2013 to 2020 ( ets iii period ). we expect to incur additional costs for the ets iii period, despite the allowance surplus accrued over the ets ii period, as allowance allocations have been reduced for the ets iii period and more of our plants are affected by the scheme. we maintain an active hedging strategy to cover these additional costs. we expect to incur additional costs in relation to future carbon or ghg emission trading schemes. in the u.s., the environmental protection agency (the epa ) has promulgated federal ghg regulations under the clean air act affecting certain sources. the epa has issued mandatory ghg reporting requirements, requirements to obtain ghg permits for certain industrial plants and proposals for ghg performance standards for some facilities. the recent epa action could be a precursor to further federal regulation of carbon dioxide emissions and other greenhouse gases, and may affect the outcome of other climate change lawsuits pending in u.s. courts in a manner unfavorable to our industry. in any event, additional regulation may be forthcoming at the u.s. federal or state level with respect to ghg emissions, and such regulation could result in the creation of additional costs in the form of taxes or required acquisition or trading of emission allowances. compliance with these or other changes in laws, regulations and obligations that create a ghg emissions trading scheme or ghg reduction policies generally could significantly increase our costs or reduce demand for products we produce. additionally, compliance with these regulations may result in increased permitting necessary for the operation of our business or for any of our growth plans. difficulties in obtaining such permits could have an adverse effect on our future growth. therefore, any future potential regulations and legislation could result in increased compliance costs, additional operating restrictions or delays in implementing growth projects or other capital investments, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we may be required to record material charges against our earnings due to any number of events that could cause impairments to our assets. we may be required to reduce production at or idle facilities for extended periods of time or exit certain businesses as a result of the cyclical nature of our industry. specifically, oversupplies of or lack of demand for particular products or high raw material prices may cause us to reduce production. we may choose to reduce production at certain facilities because we have off-take arrangements at other facilities, which make any reductions or idling unavailable at those facilities. any decision to permanently close facilities or exit a business likely would result in impairment and other charges to earnings. 24 table of contents temporary outages at our facilities can last for several quarters and sometimes longer. these outages could cause us to incur significant costs, including the expenses of maintaining and restarting these facilities. in addition, even though we may reduce production at facilities, we may be required to continue to purchase or pay for utilities or raw materials under take-or-pay supply agreements. our business is capital intensive and we rely on cash generated from operations and external financing to fund our growth and ongoing capital needs. limitations on access to external financing could adversely affect our operating results. we require significant capital to operate our current business and fund our growth strategy. moreover, interest payments, dividends and the expansion of our business or other business opportunities may require significant amounts of capital. we believe that our cash from operations currently will be sufficient to meet these needs. however, if we need external financing, our access to credit markets and pricing of our capital is dependent upon maintaining sufficient credit ratings from credit rating agencies and the state of the capital markets generally. there can be no assurances that we would be able to incur indebtedness on terms we deem acceptable, and it is possible that the cost of any financings could increase significantly, thereby increasing our expenses and decreasing our net income. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or raise adequate external financing, including as a result of significant disruptions in the global credit markets, we could be forced to restrict our operations and growth opportunities, which could adversely affect our operating results. we may use our five-year, $2.5 billion revolving credit facility, which backs our commercial paper program, to meet our cash needs, to the extent available. as of december 31, 2016, we had no borrowings or letters of credit outstanding under the facility and $500 million outstanding under our commercial paper program, leaving an unused and available credit capacity of $1,973 million. we may also meet our cash needs by selling receivables under our $900 million u.s. accounts receivable securitization facility. in the event of a default under our credit facility or any of our senior notes, we could be required to immediately repay all outstanding borrowings and make cash deposits as collateral for all obligations the facility supports, which we may not be able to do. any default under any of our credit arrangements could cause a default under many of our other credit agreements and debt instruments. without waivers from lenders party to those agreements, any such default could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to operate. legislation and regulatory initiatives could lead to a decrease in demand for our products. new or revised governmental regulations and independent studies relating to the effect of our products on health, safety and the environment may affect demand for our products and the cost of producing our products. initiatives by governments and private interest groups will potentially require increased toxicological testing and risk assessments of a wide variety of chemicals, including chemicals used or produced by us. for example, in the united states, the national toxicology program ( ntp ) is a federal interagency program that seeks to identify and select for study chemicals and other substances to evaluate potential human health hazards. in the european union, the regulation on registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemicals ( reach ) is regulation designed to identify the intrinsic properties of chemical substances, assess hazards and risks of the substances, and identify and implement the risk management measures to protect humans and the environment. assessments under ntp, reach or similar programs or regulations in other jurisdictions may result in heightened concerns about the chemicals we use or produce and may result in additional requirements being placed on the production, handling, labeling or use of those chemicals. such concerns and additional requirements could also increase the cost incurred by our customers to use our chemical products and otherwise limit the use of these products, which could lead to a decrease in demand for these products. such a decrease in demand could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. 25 table of contents adverse results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect us. we are subject to and may in the future be subject to a variety of legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business. results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. irrespective of its merits, litigation may be both lengthy and disruptive to our operations and may cause significant expenditure and diversion of management attention. we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that could materially adversely affect a portion of our business operations or materially and adversely affect our financial position and our results of operations should we fail to prevail in certain matters. significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions relating to pension costs may adversely affect the valuation of pension obligations, the funded status of pension plans, and our pension cost. our pension cost is materially affected by the discount rates used to measure pension obligations, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations at the measurement date and the expected long-term rates of return on plan assets. significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets may result in corresponding increases and decreases in the value of plan assets, particularly equity securities, or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. any changes in key actuarial assumptions, such as the discount rate or mortality rate, would impact the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported funded status of our pension plans as well as the net periodic pension cost in the following fiscal years. nearly all of our current pension plans have projected benefit obligations that exceed the fair value of the plan assets. as of december 31, 2016, the aggregate deficit was $942 million. any declines in the fair values of the pension plans assets could require additional payments by us in order to maintain specified funding levels. our pension plans are subject to legislative and regulatory requirements of applicable jurisdictions, which could include, under certain circumstances, local governmental authority to terminate the plan. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for discussion of lyondellbasell industries n.v. management of commodity price risk, foreign currency exposure and interest rate risk through its use of derivative instruments and hedging activities. 57 table of contents commodity price risk a substantial portion of our products and raw materials are commodities whose prices fluctuate as market supply and demand fundamentals change. accordingly, product margins and the level of our profitability tend to fluctuate with changes in the business cycle. we try to protect against such instability through various business strategies. these include provisions in sales contracts allowing us to pass on higher raw material costs through timely price increases, formula price contracts to transfer or share commodity price risk, and increasing the depth and breadth of our product portfolio. in addition, we use commodity swap and futures contracts with various terms to manage a small portion of the volatility related to raw materials and product purchases and sales. such contracts are generally limited to durations of one year or less. hedge accounting has not been elected for most of our commodity contracts in the periods presented. market risks created by these derivative instruments and the mark-to-market valuations of open positions are considered by management prior to execution and monitored daily. the estimated fair value and notional amounts of our open commodity futures contracts and swap contracts are shown in the table below: december 31, 2016 notional amounts millions of dollars fair value value volumes volume unit maturity dates futures and swaps not designated as hedges: heating oil $ 1 $ 20 12 million gallons february 2017 crude oil (1 ) 30 23 million gallons february 2017 - march 2017 naphtha 1 48 100 million kilograms january 2017 swaps designated as cash-flow hedges: ethane 3 58 184 million gallons january 2017 - december 2019 $ 4 $ 156 december 31, 2015 notional amounts millions of dollars fair value value volumes volume unit maturity dates futures and swaps not designated as hedges: heating oil $ $ 10 9 million gallons february 2016 - april 2016 crude oil 7 72 78 million gallons february 2016 - may 2016 crude/distillates (2 ) 57 252 million gallons october 2016 butane 1 1 8 million gallons february 2016 $ 6 $ 140 we use value at risk ( var ), stress testing and scenario analysis for risk measurement and control purposes. var estimates the maximum potential loss in fair market values, given a certain move in prices over a certain period of time, using specified confidence levels. 58 table of contents using sensitivity analysis and hypothetical changes in market prices ranging from 14% to 17%, which represent a three month volatility range of the underlying products noted in the table above, the effect on our pretax income would be less than $1 million. the quantitative information about market risk is necessarily limited because it does not take into account the effects of the underlying operating transactions. foreign exchange risk we manufacture and market our products in a number of countries throughout the world and, as a result, are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we enter into transactions in currencies other than the applicable functional currency. a significant portion of our reporting entities use the euro as their functional currency. our reporting currency is the u.s. dollar. the translation gains or losses that result from the process of translating the euro denominated financial statements to u.s. dollars are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income ( aoci ) until such time as those entities may be liquidated or sold. changes in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro can therefore have a significant impact on comprehensive income. we have entered into hedging arrangements designated as net investment hedges to reduce the volatility from foreign currency fluctuation associated with our net investments in foreign operations and investments in foreign subsidiaries. the table below illustrates the impact on other comprehensive loss of a 10% fluctuation in the foreign currency rate associated with each net investment hedge and the euribor and libor rates associated with basis swaps at december 31, 2016. net investment hedges notional amount 10% variance on foreign currency rate impact on other comprehensive loss basis swaps 400 million ($444 million) euro/u.s. dollar rate $42 million euribor and libor rates less than $1 million forward exchange contracts 275 million ($299 million) euro/u.s. dollar rate $30 million guaranteed euro notes due 2022 750 million euro/u.s. dollar rate $79 million some of our operations enter into transactions that are not denominated in their functional currency. this results in exposure to foreign currency risk for financial instruments, including, but not limited to third party and intercompany receivables and payables and intercompany loans. we maintain risk management control practices to monitor the foreign currency risk attributable to our inter-company and third party outstanding foreign currency balances. these practices involve the centralization of our exposure to underlying currencies that are not subject to central bank and/or country specific restrictions. by centralizing most of our foreign currency exposure into one subsidiary, we are able to take advantage of any natural offsets thereby reducing the overall impact of changes in foreign currency rates on our earnings. at december 31, 2016, a 10% fluctuation compared to the u.s. dollar in the underlying currencies that have no central bank or other currency restrictions related to non-hedged monetary net assets would have had a resulting additional impact to earnings of less than $1 million. our policy is to maintain an approximately balanced position in foreign currencies to minimize exchange gains and losses arising from changes in exchange rates. to minimize the effects of our net currency exchange exposures, we enter into foreign currency spot and forward contracts and, in some cases, cross-currency swaps. 59 table of contents we also engage in short-term foreign exchange swaps in order to roll certain hedge positions and to make funds available for intercompany financing. our net position in foreign currencies is monitored daily. we have entered into $2,300 million of non-cancellable cross-currency swaps, which we designated as foreign currency cash flow hedges, to reduce the variability in the functional currency equivalent cash flows of certain foreign currency denominated intercompany notes. for a summary of the estimated fair value and notional amounts for our cross-currency swaps outstanding at december 31, 2016, see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. for 2016, 2015, and 2014, other income, net in the consolidated statements of income reflected losses of $4 million and $7 million and a gain of $15 million, respectively, in net exchange rate gains and losses. for forward contracts, including swap transactions, that economically hedge recognized monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies, no hedge accounting is applied. changes in the fair value of foreign currency forward contracts are reported in the consolidated statements of income and offset the currency exchange results recognized on the assets and liabilities. interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate risk with respect to our fixed and variable rate debt. fluctuations in interest rates impact the fair value of fixed-rate debt as well as pretax earnings stemming from interest expense on variable-rate debt. fixed-rate debt we entered into interest rate swaps as part of our interest rate risk management strategy. at december 31, 2016, the total notional amounts of forward-starting interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges and interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges were $1,000 million and $2,600 million, respectively. at december 31, 2016, after giving consideration to the $2,600 million of fixed-rate debt that we have effectively converted to floating through these u.s. dollar fixed-for-floating interest rate swaps, approximately 66% of our debt portfolio, on a gross basis, incurred interest at a fixed-rate and the remaining 34% of the portfolio incurred interest at a variable-rate. we estimate that a 10% change in market interest rates as of december 31, 2016 would change the fair value of our interest rate swaps outstanding and would have had a resulting impact on our pretax income of approximately $12 million. variable-rate debt our variable rate debt consists of our $2,500 million senior revolving credit facility, our $900 million u.s. receivables securitization facility and $500 million outstanding at december 31, 2016 under our commercial paper program. at december 31, 2016, there were no outstanding borrowings under our senior revolving credit facility and u.s. receivables securitization facility. we estimate that a 10% change in interest rates would have had less than a $1 million impact on earnings. 60 table of contentsrisk factors ; part i, item 3. legal proceedings ; part ii, item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation s; and notes 2 and 18 to the consolidated financial statements. we have made, and intend to continue to make, the expenditures necessary for compliance with applicable laws and regulations relating to environmental, health and safety matters. we incurred capital expenditures of $279 million in 2017 for health, safety and environmental compliance purposes and improvement programs, and estimate such expenditures to be approximately $210 million in 2018 and $230 million in 2019. while capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance, including compliance with potential legislation and potential regulation related to climate change, cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not believe they will have a material effect on our competitive position. while there can be no assurance that physical risks to our facilities and supply chain due to climate change will not occur in the future, we do not believe these risks are material in the near term. employee relations as of december 31, 2017, we employed approximately 13,400 full-time and part-time employees around the world. of this total, 6,400 were located in north america and another 5,900 were located in europe. the remainder of our employees are in other global locations. as of december 31, 2017, approximately 850 of our employees in north america were represented by labor unions. the vast majority of our employees in europe and south america are subject to staff council or works council coverage or collective bargaining agreements. in addition to our own employees, we use the services of contractors in the routine conduct of our businesses. 12 table of contents executive officers of the registrant our executive officers as of february 1, 2018 were as follows: name and age significant experience bhavesh v. ( bob ) patel, 51 chief executive officer and chairman of the management board since january 2015. executive vice president, olefins and polyolefins eai and technology from october 2013 and member of the management board from april 2014 to january 2015. senior vice president, olefins and polyolefins eai and technology from november 2010 to october 2013. senior vice president, olefins and polyolefins americas from march 2010 to june 2011. thomas aebischer, 56 executive vice president and chief financial officer since january 2016. chief financial officer of lafargeholcim from july 2015 to december 2015. chief financial officer of holcim ltd. from january 2011 to june 2015. paul augustowski, 57 senior vice president, olefins and polyolefins americas since january 2016. vice president, polymer sales americas from january 2015 to january 2016. director, polypropylene and catalloy americas from november 2011 to january 2015. darleen caron, 53 executive vice president and chief human resources officer since october 2017. executive vice president of global human resources and member of the office of the president at snc lavalin group, inc. from december 2010 to december 2015. daniel coombs, 61 executive vice president, global manufacturing, projects, refining and technology since february 2017. executive vice president, global olefins and polyolefins, and technology from january 2016 to february 2017. executive vice president, intermediates and derivatives from may 2015 to january 2016. senior vice president of manufacturing for chevron phillips chemical from december 2013 to may 2015. 13 table of contents name and age significant experience senior vice president for specialties, aromatics and styrenics for chevron phillips chemical from december 2011 to november 2013. vice president of corporate planning and development for chevron phillips chemical from september 2011 to november 2011. massimo covezzi, 60 senior vice president, research and development since january 2008. stephen doktycz, 56 senior vice president, strategic planning and transactions since march 2017. corporate director and executive project lead at the dow chemical company from 2013 to march 2017. global director, corporate and strategic development at the dow chemical company from 2011 to 2013. dale friedrichs, 54 vice president, health, safety, environment and security since february 2017. site manager of various facilities from january 1995 to february 2017. james guilfoyle, 47 senior vice president, global intermediates &amp; derivatives and global supply chain since february 2017 senior vice president, global intermediates and derivatives from june 2015 to february 2017. vice president of global propylene oxide and co-products from march 2015 to may 2015. director of polymer sales americas from january 2012 to february 2015. jeffrey kaplan, 49 executive vice president and chief legal officer since march 2015. deputy general counsel from december 2009 to march 2015. richard roudeix, 55 senior vice president, olefins &amp; polyolefins, europe, asia and international since february 2017. senior vice president, olefins &amp; polyolefins, europe from march 2015 to february 2017. director, olefins europe from may 2009 to march 2015. 14 table of contents description of properties our principal manufacturing facilities as of december 31, 2017 are set forth below, and are identified by the principal segment or segments using the facility. all of the facilities are wholly owned, except as otherwise noted. location segment americas bayport (pasadena), texas i&amp;d bayport (pasadena), texas(1) i&amp;d bayport (pasadena), texas o&amp;p americas channelview, texas(2) o&amp;p americas channelview, texas(1)(2) i&amp;d chocolate bayou, texas o&amp;p americas clinton, iowa o&amp;p americas corpus christi, texas o&amp;p americas edison, new jersey o&amp;p americas houston, texas refining la porte, texas(3) o&amp;p americas la porte, texas(3)(4) i&amp;d lake charles, louisiana o&amp;p americas matagorda, texas o&amp;p americas morris, illinois o&amp;p americas tuscola, illinois o&amp;p americas victoria, texas o&amp;p americas europe berre l etang, france o&amp;p eai botlek, rotterdam, the netherlands i&amp;d brindisi, italy o&amp;p eai carrington, uk o&amp;p eai ferrara, italy o&amp;p eai technology fos-sur-mer, france i&amp;d frankfurt, germany o&amp;p eai technology knapsack, germany o&amp;p eai ludwigshafen, germany technology maasvlakte, the netherlands(5) i&amp;d moerdijk, the netherlands o&amp;p eai m&uuml;nchsm&uuml;nster, germany o&amp;p eai tarragona, spain(6) o&amp;p eai wesseling, germany o&amp;p eai asia pacific geelong, australia o&amp;p eai 15 table of contents the facility is located on leased land. (1) the bayport po/tba plants and the channelview po/sm i plant are held by the u.s. po joint venture between covestro and lyondell chemical company. these plants are located on land leased by the u.s. po joint venture. (2) equistar chemicals, lp operates a styrene maleic anhydride unit and a polybutadiene unit, which are owned by an unrelated party and are located within the channelview facility on property leased from equistar chemicals, lp. (3) the la porte facilities are on contiguous property. (4) the la porte methanol facility is owned by la porte methanol company, a partnership owned 85% by us. (5) the maasvlakte plant is owned by the european po joint venture and is located on land leased by the european po joint venture. (6) the tarragona pp facility is located on leased land; the compounds facility is located on co-owned land. other locations and properties we maintain executive offices in london, the united kingdom; rotterdam, the netherlands; and houston, texas. we maintain research facilities in lansing, michigan; channelview, texas; cincinnati, ohio; ferrara, italy and frankfurt, germany. our asia pacific headquarters are in hong kong. we also have technical support centers in bayreuth, germany; geelong, australia and tarragona, spain. we have various sales facilities worldwide. website access to sec reports our internet website address is http://www.lyb.com . information contained on our internet website is not part of this report on form 10-k. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are available on our website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with, or furnished to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission. alternatively, you may access these reports at the sec website at http://www.sec.gov . item 1a. risk factors. you should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k. each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. our business, including our results of operations and reputation, could be adversely affected by safety or product liability issues. failure to appropriately manage safety, human health, product liability and environmental risks associated with our products, product life cycles and production processes could adversely impact employees, communities, stakeholders, our reputation and our results of operations. public perception of the risks associated with our products and production processes could impact product acceptance and influence the regulatory environment in which we operate. while we have procedures and controls to manage safety risks, issues could be created by events outside of our control, including natural disasters, severe weather events and acts of sabotage. 16 table of contents our operations are subject to risks inherent in chemical and refining businesses, and we could be subject to liabilities for which we are not fully insured or that are not otherwise mitigated. we maintain property, business interruption, product, general liability, casualty and other types of insurance that we believe are appropriate for our business and operations as well as in line with industry practices. however, we are not fully insured against all potential hazards incident to our business, including losses resulting from natural disasters, wars or terrorist acts. changes in insurance market conditions have caused, and may in the future cause, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies to increase substantially and, in some instances, for certain insurance to become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. if we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, we might not be able to finance the amount of the uninsured liability on terms acceptable to us or at all, and might be obligated to divert a significant portion of our cash flow from normal business operations. further, because a part of our business involves licensing polyolefin process technology, our licensees are exposed to similar risks involved in the manufacture and marketing of polyolefins. hazardous incidents involving our licensees, if they do result or are perceived to result from use of our technologies, may harm our reputation, threaten our relationships with other licensees and/or lead to customer attrition and financial losses. our policy of covering these risks through contractual limitations of liability and indemnities and through insurance may not always be effective. as a result, our financial condition and results of operation would be adversely affected, and other companies with competing technologies may have the opportunity to secure a competitive advantage. a sustained decrease in the price of crude oil may adversely impact the results of our operations, primarily in north america. energy costs generally follow price trends of crude oil and natural gas. these price trends may be highly volatile and cyclical. in the past, raw material and energy costs have experienced significant fluctuations that adversely affected our business segments results of operations. for example, we have benefitted from the favorable ratio of u.s. crude oil prices to natural gas prices in recent years. this advantage was reduced as oil prices declined beginning in 2014. if the price of crude oil remains lower relative to u.s. natural gas prices or if the demand for natural gas and ngls increases, this may have a negative impact on our results of operations. costs and limitations on supply of raw materials and energy may result in increased operating expenses. the costs of raw materials and energy represent a substantial portion of our operating expenses. due to the significant competition we face and the commodity nature of many of our products we are not always able to pass on raw material and energy cost increases to our customers. when we do have the ability to pass on the cost increases, we are not always able to do so quickly enough to avoid adverse impacts on our results of operations. cost increases for raw materials also may increase working capital needs, which could reduce our liquidity and cash flow. even if we increase our sales prices to reflect rising raw material and energy costs, demand for products may decrease as customers reduce their consumption or use substitute products, which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. in addition, producers in natural gas cost-advantaged regions, such as the middle east and north america, benefit from the lower prices of natural gas and ngls. competition from producers in these regions may cause us to reduce exports from europe and elsewhere. any such reductions may increase competition for product sales within europe and other markets, which can result in lower margins in those regions. for some of our raw materials and utilities there are a limited number of suppliers and, in some cases, the supplies are specific to the particular geographic region in which a facility is located. it is also common in the chemical and refining industries for a facility to have a sole, dedicated source for its utilities, such as steam, electricity and gas. having a sole or limited number of suppliers may limit our negotiating power, particularly in 17 table of contents the case of rising raw material costs. any new supply agreements we enter into may not have terms as favorable as those contained in our current supply agreements. additionally, there is growing concern over the reliability of water sources, including around the texas gulf coast where several of our facilities are located. the decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result of population growth, drought or regulation could negatively impact our operations. if our raw material or utility supplies were disrupted, our businesses may incur increased costs to procure alternative supplies or incur excessive downtime, which would have a direct negative impact on plant operations. disruptions of supplies may occur as a result of transportation issues resulting from natural disasters, water levels, and interruptions in marine water routes, among other causes, that can affect the operations of vessels, barges, rails, trucks and pipeline traffic. these risks are particularly prevalent in the u.s. gulf coast area. additionally, increasing exports of ngls and crude oil from the u.s. or greater restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could restrict the availability of our raw materials, thereby increasing our costs. with increased volatility in raw material costs, our suppliers could impose more onerous terms on us, resulting in shorter payment cycles and increasing our working capital requirements. our ability to source raw materials may be adversely affected by political instability, civil disturbances or other governmental actions. we obtain a portion of our principal raw materials from sources in north africa, the middle east, and central and south america that may be less politically stable than other areas in which we conduct business, such as europe or the u.s. political instability, civil disturbances and actions by governments in these areas are more likely to substantially increase the price and decrease the supply of raw materials necessary for our operations, which will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. increased incidents of civil unrest, including terrorist attacks and demonstrations that have been marked by violence, have occurred in a number of countries in north africa and the middle east. some political regimes in these countries are threatened or have changed as a result of such unrest. political instability and civil unrest could continue to spread in the region and involve other areas. such unrest, if it continues to spread or grow in intensity, could lead to civil wars, regional conflicts or regime changes resulting in governments that are hostile to countries in which we conduct substantial business, such as in europe, the u.s., or their respective trading partners. economic disruptions and downturns in general, and particularly continued global economic uncertainty or economic turmoil in emerging markets, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. our results of operations can be materially affected by adverse conditions in the financial markets and depressed economic conditions generally. economic downturns in the businesses and geographic areas in which we sell our products substantially reduce demand for our products and result in decreased sales volumes and increased credit risk. recessionary environments adversely affect our business because demand for our products is reduced, particularly from our customers in industrial markets generally and the automotive and housing industries specifically, and may result in higher costs of capital. a significant portion of our revenues and earnings are derived from our business in europe, including southern europe. in addition, most of our european transactions and assets, including cash reserves and receivables, are denominated in euros. if a sustained financial crisis in europe leads to a significant devaluation of the euro, the value of our financial assets that are denominated in euros would be significantly reduced when translated to u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. we also derive significant revenues from our business in emerging markets, particularly the emerging markets in asia and south america. any broad-based downturn in these emerging 18 table of contents markets, or in a key market such as china, could require us to reduce export volumes into these markets and could also require us to divert product sales to less profitable markets. any of these conditions could ultimately harm our overall business, prospects, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. the cyclicality and volatility of the industries in which we participate may cause significant fluctuations in our operating results. our business operations are subject to the cyclical and volatile nature of the supply-demand balance in the chemical and refining industries. our future operating results are expected to continue to be affected by this cyclicality and volatility. the chemical and refining industries historically have experienced alternating periods of capacity shortages, causing prices and profit margins to increase, followed by periods of excess capacity, resulting in oversupply, declining capacity utilization rates and declining prices and profit margins. in addition to changes in the supply and demand for products, changes in energy prices and other worldwide economic conditions can cause volatility. these factors result in significant fluctuations in profits and cash flow from period to period and over business cycles. new capacity additions in asia, the middle east and north america may lead to periods of oversupply and lower profitability. a sizable number of expansions have been announced in north america. the timing and extent of any changes to currently prevailing market conditions are uncertain and supply and demand may be unbalanced at any time. as a consequence, we are unable to accurately predict the extent or duration of future industry cycles or their effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we sell products in highly competitive global markets and face significant price pressures. we sell our products in highly competitive global markets. due to the commodity nature of many of our products, competition in these markets is based primarily on price and, to a lesser extent, on product performance, product quality, product deliverability, reliability of supply and customer service. often, we are not able to protect our market position for these products by product differentiation and may not be able to pass on cost increases to our customers due to the significant competition in our business. in addition, we face increased competition from companies that may have greater financial resources and different cost structures or strategic goals than us. these include large integrated oil companies (some of which also have chemical businesses), government-owned businesses, and companies that receive subsidies or other government incentives to produce certain products in a specified geographic region. continuing competition from these companies, especially in our olefin and refining businesses, could limit our ability to increase product sales prices in response to raw material and other cost increases, or could cause us to reduce product sales prices to compete effectively, which would reduce our profitability. competitors with different cost structures or strategic goals than we have may be able to invest significant capital into their businesses, including expenditures for research and development. in addition, specialty products we produce may become commoditized over time. increased competition could result in lower prices or lower sales volumes, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. interruptions of operations at our facilities may result in liabilities or lower operating results. we own and operate large-scale facilities. our operating results are dependent on the continued operation of our various production facilities and the ability to complete construction and maintenance projects on schedule. interruptions at our facilities may materially reduce the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility, or our business as a whole, during and after the period of such operational difficulties. in the past, we had to shut down plants on the u.s. gulf coast, including the temporary shutdown of our houston refinery, as a result of hurricanes striking the texas coast. 19 table of contents in addition, because the houston refinery is our only refining operation, an outage at the refinery could have a particularly negative impact on our operating results. unlike our chemical and polymer production facilities, which may have sufficient excess capacity to mitigate the negative impact of lost production at other facilities, we do not have the ability to increase refining production elsewhere in the u.s. although we take precautions to enhance the safety of our operations and minimize the risk of disruptions, our operations are subject to hazards inherent in chemical manufacturing and refining and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes. these potential hazards include: pipeline leaks and ruptures; explosions; fires; severe weather and natural disasters; mechanical failure; unscheduled downtimes; supplier disruptions; labor shortages or other labor difficulties; transportation interruptions; remediation complications; increased restrictions on, or the unavailability of, water for use at our manufacturing sites or for the transport of our products or raw materials; chemical and oil spills; discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases; shipment of incorrect or off-specification product to customers; storage tank leaks; other environmental risks; and terrorist acts. some of these hazards may cause severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment or personal injury and loss of life and may result in suspension of operations or the shutdown of affected facilities. large capital projects can take many years to complete, and market conditions could deteriorate significantly between the project approval date and the project startup date, negatively impacting project returns. if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs and in a timely manner, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs involving engineering, procurement and construction of facilities could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve forecasted internal rates of return and operating results. delays in making required changes or upgrades to our facilities could subject us to fines or penalties as well as affect our ability to supply certain products we produce. such delays or cost increases may arise as a result of unpredictable factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: denial of or delay in receiving requisite regulatory approvals and/or permits; 20 table of contents unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor; disruptions in transportation of components or construction materials; adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires or spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors or suppliers; shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages; and nonperformance by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors or subcontractors. any one or more of these factors could have a significant impact on our ongoing capital projects. if we were unable to make up the delays associated with such factors or to recover the related costs, or if market conditions change, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. increased it security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to our systems, networks, products, facilities and services. increased global information security threats and more sophisticated, targeted computer crime pose a risk to the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data, operations and infrastructure. while we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including security measures, employee training, comprehensive monitoring of our networks and systems, and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our employees, systems, networks, products, facilities and services remain potentially vulnerable to sophisticated espionage or cyber-assault. depending on their nature and scope, such threats could potentially lead to the compromise of confidential information, improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitiveness and results of operations. we operate internationally and are subject to exchange rate fluctuations, exchange controls, political risks and other risks relating to international operations. we operate internationally and are subject to the risks of doing business on a global level. these risks include fluctuations in currency exchange rates, economic instability and disruptions, restrictions on the transfer of funds and the imposition of trade restrictions or duties and tariffs. additional risks from our multinational business include transportation delays and interruptions, war, terrorist activities, epidemics, pandemics, political instability, import and export controls, changes in governmental policies, labor unrest and current and changing regulatory environments. we generate revenues from export sales and operations that may be denominated in currencies other than the relevant functional currency. exchange rates between these currencies and functional currencies in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may do so in the future. it is possible that fluctuations in exchange rates will result in reduced operating results. additionally, we operate with the objective of having our worldwide cash available in the locations where it is needed, including the united kingdom for our parent company significant cash obligations as a result of dividend and interest payments. it is possible that we may not always be able to provide cash to other jurisdictions when needed or that such transfers of cash could be subject to additional taxes, including withholding taxes. our operating results could be negatively affected by the global laws, rules and regulations, as well as political environments, in the jurisdictions in which we operate. there could be reduced demand for our products, decreases in the prices at which we can sell our products and disruptions of production or other operations. trade protection measures such as quotas, duties, tariffs, safeguard measures or anti-dumping duties imposed in the countries in which we operate could negatively impact our business. additionally, there may be substantial 21 table of contents capital and other costs to comply with regulations and/or increased security costs or insurance premiums, any of which could reduce our operating results. we obtain a portion of our principal raw materials from international sources that are subject to these same risks. our compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations to which we may be subject could be challenged. furthermore, these laws may be modified, the result of which may be to prevent or limit subsidiaries from transferring cash to us. furthermore, we are subject to certain existing, and may be subject to possible future, laws that limit or may limit our activities while some of our competitors may not be subject to such laws, which may adversely affect our competitiveness. changes in tax laws and regulations could affect our tax rate and our results of operations. we are a tax resident in the united kingdom and are subject to the united kingdom corporate income tax system. lyondellbasell industries n.v. has little or no taxable income of its own because, as a holding company, it does not conduct any operations. through our subsidiaries, we have substantial operations world-wide. taxes are primarily paid on the earnings generated in various jurisdictions, including the u.s., the netherlands, germany, france and italy. a portion of our interest income from internal financing is either untaxed or taxed at rates substantially lower than the u.s. statutory rate. in september 2016, the united kingdom enacted provisions (the so called anti-hybrid provisions ), effective for years beginning january 1, 2017, that resulted in changes to our internal financing structure which did not materially impact our consolidated financial statements. in addition, in october 2016 the u.s. treasury issued final section 385 debt-equity regulations that could impact our internal financings in future years. pursuant to a recent executive order, the treasury department reviewed these regulations and determined to delay but retain these regulations, subject to further review after the enactment of u.s. tax reform. in december 2017, the u.s. enacted h.r.1, also known as the tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ), materially impacting our 2017 consolidated financial statements and significantly affecting future periods. we are awaiting treasury review of the existing section 385 debt-equity regulations which could impact our internal financings in future years as well as any new regulations pursuant to treasury expanded regulatory authority under the tax act. we monitor income tax developments in countries where we conduct business. recently, there has been an increase in attention, both in the u.s. and globally, to the tax practices of multinational companies, including the european union state aid investigations and proposals by the organization for economic cooperation and development with respect to base erosion and profit shifting. such attention may result in additional legislative changes that could adversely affect our tax rate. other than the recently enacted tax act, management does not believe that recent changes in income tax laws will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements, although new or proposed changes to tax laws could affect our tax liabilities in the future. many of our businesses depend on our intellectual property. our future success will depend in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, and our inability to do so could reduce our ability to maintain our competitiveness and margins. we have a significant worldwide patent portfolio of issued and pending patents. these patents and patent applications, together with proprietary technical know-how, are significant to our competitive position, particularly with regard to po, performance chemicals, petrochemicals and polymers. we rely on the patent, copyright and trade secret laws of the countries in which we operate to protect our investment in research and development, manufacturing and marketing. however, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without authorization. proceedings to protect these rights could be costly, and we may not prevail. 22 table of contents the failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our processes, apparatuses, technology, trade secrets or proprietary know-how could result in significantly lower revenues, reduced profit margins and cash flows and/or loss of market share. we also may be subject to claims that our technology, patents or other intellectual property infringes on a third party intellectual property rights. unfavorable resolution of these claims could result in restrictions on our ability to deliver the related service or in a settlement that could be material to us. shared control or lack of control of joint ventures may delay decisions or actions regarding the joint ventures. a portion of our operations are conducted through joint ventures, where control may be exercised by or shared with unaffiliated third parties. we cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners, including any nonperformance, default or bankruptcy of joint venture partners. the joint ventures that we do not control may also lack financial reporting systems to provide adequate and timely information for our reporting purposes. our joint venture partners may have different interests or goals than we do and may take actions contrary to our requests, policies or objectives. differences in views among the joint venture participants also may result in delayed decisions or in failures to agree on major matters, potentially adversely affecting the business and operations of the joint ventures and in turn our business and operations. we may develop a dispute with any of our partners over decisions affecting the venture that may result in litigation, arbitration or some other form of dispute resolution. if a joint venture participant acts contrary to our interest, it could harm our brand, business, results of operations and financial condition. we cannot predict with certainty the extent of future costs under environmental, health and safety and other laws and regulations, and cannot guarantee they will not be material. we may face liability arising out of the normal course of business, including alleged personal injury or property damage due to exposure to chemicals or other hazardous substances at our current or former facilities or chemicals that we manufacture, handle or own. in addition, because our products are components of a variety of other end-use products, we, along with other members of the chemical industry, are subject to potential claims related to those end-use products. any substantial increase in the success of these types of claims could negatively affect our operating results. we (together with the industries in which we operate) are subject to extensive national, regional, state and local environmental laws, regulations, directives, rules and ordinances concerning: emissions to the air; discharges onto land or surface waters or into groundwater; and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials. many of these laws and regulations provide for substantial fines and potential criminal sanctions for violations. some of these laws and regulations are subject to varying and conflicting interpretations. in addition, some of these laws and regulations require us to meet specific financial responsibility requirements. any substantial liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. although we have compliance programs and other processes intended to ensure compliance with all such regulations, we are subject to the risk that our compliance with such regulations could be challenged. non-compliance with certain of these regulations could result in the incurrence of additional costs, penalties or assessments that could be material. 23 table of contents our industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and existing, or future regulations may restrict our operations, increase our costs of operations or require us to make additional capital expenditures. compliance with regulatory requirements could result in higher operating costs, such as regulatory requirements relating to emissions, the security of our facilities, and the transportation, export or registration of our products. we generally expect that regulatory controls worldwide will become increasingly more demanding, but cannot accurately predict future developments. increasingly strict environmental laws and inspection and enforcement policies, could affect the handling, manufacture, use, emission or disposal of products, other materials or hazardous and non-hazardous waste. stricter environmental, safety and health laws, regulations and enforcement policies could result in increased operating costs or capital expenditures to comply with such laws and regulations. additionally, we are required to have permits for our businesses and are subject to licensing regulations. these permits and licenses are subject to renewal, modification and in some circumstances, revocation. further, the permits and licenses are often difficult, time consuming and costly to obtain and could contain conditions that limit our operations. we may incur substantial costs to comply with climate change legislation and related regulatory initiatives. there has been a broad range of proposed or promulgated state, national and international laws focusing on greenhouse gas ( ghg ) reduction. these proposed or promulgated laws apply or could apply in countries where we have interests or may have interests in the future. laws and regulations in this field continue to evolve and, while they are likely to be increasingly widespread and stringent, at this stage it is not possible to accurately estimate either a timetable for implementation or our future compliance costs relating to implementation. within the framework of the eu emissions trading scheme ( ets ), we were allocated certain allowances of carbon dioxide for the affected plants of our european sites for the period from 2008 to 2012 ( ets ii period ). the ets ii period did not bring additional cost to us as the allowance allocation was sufficient to cover the actual emissions of the affected plants. we were able to build an allowance surplus during the ets ii period which has been banked to the scheme for the period from 2013 to 2020 ( ets iii period ). we expect to incur additional costs for the ets iii period, despite the allowance surplus accrued over the ets ii period, as allowance allocations have been reduced for the ets iii period and more of our plants are affected by the scheme. we maintain an active hedging strategy to cover these additional costs. we expect to incur additional costs in relation to future carbon or ghg emission trading schemes. in the u.s., the environmental protection agency (the epa ) has promulgated federal ghg regulations under the clean air act affecting certain sources. the epa has issued mandatory ghg reporting requirements, requirements to obtain ghg permits for certain industrial plants and proposals for ghg performance standards for some facilities. the recent epa action could be a precursor to further federal regulation of carbon dioxide emissions and other greenhouse gases, and may affect the outcome of other climate change lawsuits pending in u.s. courts in a manner unfavorable to our industry. in any event, additional regulation may be forthcoming at the u.s. federal or state level with respect to ghg emissions, and such regulation could result in the creation of additional costs in the form of taxes or required acquisition or trading of emission allowances. compliance with these or other changes in laws, regulations and obligations that create a ghg emissions trading scheme or ghg reduction policies generally could significantly increase our costs or reduce demand for products we produce. additionally, compliance with these regulations may result in increased permitting necessary for the operation of our business or for any of our growth plans. difficulties in obtaining such permits could have an adverse effect on our future growth. therefore, any future potential regulations and legislation could result in increased compliance costs, additional operating restrictions or delays in implementing growth projects or other capital investments, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 24 table of contents we may be required to record material charges against our earnings due to any number of events that could cause impairments to our assets. we may be required to reduce production or idle facilities for extended periods of time or exit certain businesses as a result of the cyclical nature of our industry. specifically, oversupplies of or lack of demand for particular products or high raw material prices may cause us to reduce production. we may choose to reduce production at certain facilities because we have off-take arrangements at other facilities, which make any reductions or idling unavailable at those facilities. any decision to permanently close facilities or exit a business likely would result in impairment and other charges to earnings. temporary outages at our facilities can last for several quarters and sometimes longer. these outages could cause us to incur significant costs, including the expenses of maintaining and restarting these facilities. in addition, even though we may reduce production at facilities, we may be required to continue to purchase or pay for utilities or raw materials under take-or-pay supply agreements. our business is capital intensive and we rely on cash generated from operations and external financing to fund our growth and ongoing capital needs. limitations on access to external financing could adversely affect our operating results. we require significant capital to operate our current business and fund our growth strategy. moreover, interest payments, dividends and the expansion of our business or other business opportunities may require significant amounts of capital. we believe that our cash from operations currently will be sufficient to meet these needs. however, if we need external financing, our access to credit markets and pricing of our capital is dependent upon maintaining sufficient credit ratings from credit rating agencies and the state of the capital markets generally. there can be no assurances that we would be able to incur indebtedness on terms we deem acceptable, and it is possible that the cost of any financings could increase significantly, thereby increasing our expenses and decreasing our net income. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or raise adequate external financing, including as a result of significant disruptions in the global credit markets, we could be forced to restrict our operations and growth opportunities, which could adversely affect our operating results. we may use our five-year, $2.5 billion revolving credit facility, which backs our commercial paper program, to meet our cash needs, to the extent available. as of december 31, 2017, we had no borrowings or letters of credit outstanding under the facility and no borrowings under our commercial paper program, leaving an unused and available credit capacity of $2,500 million. we may also meet our cash needs by selling receivables under our $900 million u.s. accounts receivable securitization facility. in the event of a default under our credit facility or any of our senior notes, we could be required to immediately repay all outstanding borrowings and make cash deposits as collateral for all obligations the facility supports, which we may not be able to do. any default under any of our credit arrangements could cause a default under many of our other credit agreements and debt instruments. without waivers from lenders party to those agreements, any such default could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to operate. legislation and regulatory initiatives could lead to a decrease in demand for our products. new or revised governmental regulations and independent studies relating to the effect of our products on health, safety and the environment may affect demand for our products and the cost of producing our products. initiatives by governments and private interest groups will potentially require increased toxicological testing and risk assessments of a wide variety of chemicals, including chemicals used or produced by us. for example, in the united states, the national toxicology program ( ntp ) is a federal interagency program that seeks to identify and select for study chemicals and other substances to evaluate potential human health hazards. in the european union, the regulation on registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemicals ( reach ) is regulation designed to identify the intrinsic properties of chemical substances, assess hazards and risks of the substances, and identify and implement the risk management measures to protect humans and the environment. 25 table of contents assessments under ntp, reach or similar programs or regulations in other jurisdictions may result in heightened concerns about the chemicals we use or produce and may result in additional requirements being placed on the production, handling, labeling or use of those chemicals. such concerns and additional requirements could also increase the cost incurred by our customers to use our chemical products and otherwise limit the use of these products, which could lead to a decrease in demand for these products. such a decrease in demand could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. adverse results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect us. we are subject to and may in the future be subject to a variety of legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business. results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. irrespective of its merits, litigation may be both lengthy and disruptive to our operations and may cause significant expenditure and diversion of management attention. we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations should we fail to prevail in certain matters. significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions relating to pension costs may adversely affect the valuation of pension obligations, the funded status of pension plans, and our pension cost. our pension cost is materially affected by the discount rates used to measure pension obligations, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations at the measurement date and the expected long-term rates of return on plan assets. significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets may result in corresponding increases and decreases in the value of plan assets, particularly equity securities, or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. any changes in key actuarial assumptions, such as the discount rate or mortality rate, would impact the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported funded status of our pension plans as well as the net periodic pension cost in the following fiscal years. nearly all of our current pension plans have projected benefit obligations that exceed the fair value of the plan assets. as of december 31, 2017, the aggregate deficit was $903 million. any declines in the fair values of the pension plans assets could require additional payments by us in order to maintain specified funding levels. our pension plans are subject to legislative and regulatory requirements of applicable jurisdictions, which could include, under certain circumstances, local governmental authority to terminate the plan. integration of acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and stock price. we may make acquisitions in order to enhance our business. on february 15, 2018, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire a. schulman. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs and liabilities, diversion of management attention from our core businesses, and potential loss of key employees. there can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate successfully any businesses, products, technologies, or personnel that we might acquire. the integration of businesses that we may acquire is likely to be a complex, time-consuming, and expensive process and we may not realize the anticipated revenues or other benefits associated with our acquisitions if we do not manage and operate the acquired business up to our expectations. if we are unable to efficiently operate as a combined organization utilizing common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls, and human resources practices, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. 26 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for discussion of lyondellbasell industries n.v. management of commodity price risk, foreign currency exposure and interest rate risk through its use of derivative instruments and hedging activities. commodity price risk a substantial portion of our products and raw materials are commodities whose prices fluctuate as market supply and demand fundamentals change. accordingly, product margins and the level of our profitability tend to fluctuate with changes in the business cycle. we try to protect against such instability through various business strategies. these include provisions in sales contracts allowing us to pass on higher raw material costs through timely price increases, formula price contracts to transfer or share commodity price risk, and increasing the depth and breadth of our product portfolio. in addition, we use commodity swap and futures contracts with various terms to manage a small portion of the volatility related to raw materials and product purchases and sales. such contracts are generally limited to durations of one year or less. hedge accounting has been elected for some of our commodity contracts in the periods presented. market risks created by these derivative instruments and the mark-to-market valuations of open positions are considered by management prior to execution and monitored regularly. 57 table of contents the estimated fair value and notional amounts of our open commodity futures contracts and swap contracts are shown in the table below: december 31, 2017 notional amounts millions of dollars fair value value volumes volume unit maturity dates futures and swaps not designated as hedges: heating oil $ (1 ) $ 8 4 million gallons january 2018 - february 2018 crude oil 16 48 35 million gallons january 2018 - march 2018 gasoline (15 ) 9 40 million gallons january 2018 - february 2018 naphtha 2 57 100 million kilograms january 2018 swaps designated as cash-flow hedges: ethane (8 ) 102 375 million gallons january 2018 - december 2019 $ (6 ) $ 224 december 31, 2016 notional amounts millions of dollars fair value value volumes volume unit maturity dates futures and swaps not designated as hedges: heating oil $ 1 $ 20 12 million gallons february 2017 crude oil (1 ) 30 23 million gallons february 2017 - march 2017 naptha 1 48 100 million kilograms january 2017 swaps designated as cash-flow hedges: ethane 3 58 184 million gallons january 2017 - december 2019 $ 4 $ 156 we use value at risk ( var ), stress testing and scenario analysis for risk measurement and control purposes. var estimates the maximum potential loss in fair market values, given a certain move in prices over a certain period of time, using specified confidence levels. using sensitivity analysis and hypothetical changes in market prices ranging from 9% to 13%, which represent a three-month volatility range of the underlying products noted in the table above, the effect on our pretax income would be approximately $1 million. the quantitative information about market risk is necessarily limited because it does not take into account the effects of the underlying operating transactions. foreign exchange risk we manufacture and market our products in many countries throughout the world and, as a result, are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 58 table of contents a significant portion of our reporting entities use the euro as their functional currency. our reporting currency is the u.s. dollar. the translation gains or losses that result from the process of translating the euro denominated financial statements to u.s. dollars are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income ( aoci ) until such time as those entities may be liquidated or sold. changes in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro can therefore have a significant impact on comprehensive income. we have entered into hedging arrangements designated as net investment hedges to reduce the volatility in stockholders equity resulting from foreign currency fluctuation associated with our net investments in foreign operations. the table below illustrates the impact on other comprehensive loss of a 10% fluctuation in the foreign currency rate associated with each net investment hedge and the euribor and libor rates associated with basis swaps are shown in the table below: december 31, 2017 net investment hedges notional amount 10% variance on foreign currency rate impact on other comprehensive loss basis swaps 742 million euro/u.s. dollar rate $91 million euribor and libor rates less than $1 million guaranteed euro notes due 2022 750 million euro/u.s. dollar rate $90 million some of our operations enter into transactions that are not denominated in their functional currency. this results in exposure to foreign currency risk for financial instruments, including, but not limited to third party and intercompany receivables and payables and intercompany loans. we maintain risk management control practices to monitor the foreign currency risk attributable to our inter-company and third party outstanding foreign currency balances. these practices involve the centralization of our exposure to underlying currencies that are not subject to central bank and/or country specific restrictions. by centralizing most of our foreign currency exposure into one subsidiary, we are able to take advantage of any natural offsets thereby reducing the overall impact of changes in foreign currency rates on our earnings. at december 31, 2017, a 10% fluctuation compared to the u.s. dollar in the underlying currencies that have no central bank or other currency restrictions related to non-hedged monetary net assets would have had a resulting additional impact to earnings of approximately $2 million. our policy is to maintain an approximately balanced position in foreign currencies to minimize exchange gains and losses arising from changes in exchange rates. to minimize the effects of our net currency exchange exposures, we enter into foreign currency spot and forward contracts and, in some cases, cross-currency swaps. we also engage in short-term foreign exchange swaps in order to roll certain hedge positions and to make funds available for intercompany financing. our net position in foreign currencies is monitored daily. we have entered into $2,300 million of non-cancellable cross-currency swaps, which we designated as foreign currency cash flow hedges, to reduce the variability in the functional currency equivalent cash flows of certain foreign currency denominated intercompany notes. at december 31, 2017, these foreign currency contracts have maturity dates ranging from 2021 to 2027 and their fair value was a net liability of $4 million. a 10% fluctuation compared to the u.s. dollar would have had a resulting additional impact to other comprehensive income (loss) of approximately $265 million. other income, net in the consolidated statements of income reflected losses of $1 million, $4 million and $7 million for 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, in net exchange rate gains and losses. for forward contracts, including swap transactions, that economically hedge recognized monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies, no hedge accounting is applied. changes in the fair value of foreign currency forward contracts are reported in the consolidated statements of income and offset the currency exchange results recognized on the 59 table of contents assets and liabilities. at december 31, 2017, these foreign currency contracts, which will mature in january 2018, had an aggregated notional amount of $1,014 million and the fair value was a net liability of $11 million. a 10% fluctuation compared to the u.s. dollar would have had a resulting additional impact to earnings of approximately $10 million. interest rate risk interest rate risk management is viewed as a trade-off between cost and risk. the cost of interest is generally lower for short-term debt and higher for long-term debt, and lower for floating rate debt and higher for fixed rate debt. however, the risk associated with interest rates is inversely related to the cost, with short-term debt carrying a higher refinancing risk and floating rate debt having higher interest rate volatility. our interest rate risk management strategy attempts to optimize this cost/risk/reward tradeoff. we are exposed to interest rate risk with respect to our fixed and variable rate debt. fluctuations in interest rates impact the fair value of fixed-rate debt as well as pretax earnings stemming from interest expense on variable-rate debt. to minimize earnings at risk, we target to maintain floating rate debt equal to our cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and tri-party repurchase agreements, as those assets are invested in floating rate instruments. as part of our interest rate risk management strategy we also enter into interest rate swaps. pre-issuance interest rate a pre-issuance interest rate strategy is utilized to mitigate the risk that benchmark interest rates (i.e. u.s. treasury, mid-swaps, etc.) will increase between the time a decision has been made to issue debt and when the actual debt offering transpires. in march 2015 we entered into forward-starting interest rate swaps to mitigate the risk of adverse changes in the benchmark interest rates on the anticipated refinancing of our senior notes due 2019. these interest rate swaps will be terminated upon debt issuance. at december 31, 2017, the total notional amount of these interest rate contracts designated as cash flow hedges was $1,000 million and its fair value was a net liability of $41 million. we estimate that a 10% change in market interest rates as of december 31, 2017 would change the fair value of our forward-starting interest rate swap outstanding and would have had a resulting impact on other comprehensive income (loss) of approximately $47 million. fixed-rate debt we entered into interest rate swaps as part of our interest rate risk management strategy. at december 31, 2017, the total notional amount of interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges, which have maturity dates ranging from 2019 to 2027, was $3,000 million and their fair value was a net liability of $1 million. at december 31, 2017, after giving consideration to the $3,000 million of fixed-rate debt that we have effectively converted to floating through these u.s. dollar fixed-for-floating interest rate swaps, approximately 66% of our debt portfolio, on a gross basis, incurred interest at a fixed-rate and the remaining 34% of the portfolio incurred interest at a variable-rate. we estimate that a 10% change in market interest rates as of december 31, 2017 would change the fair value of our interest rate swaps outstanding and would have had a resulting impact on our pretax income of approximately $29 million. variable-rate debt our variable rate debt consists of our $2,500 million senior revolving credit facility, our $900 million u.s. receivables securitization facility and our commercial paper program. at december 31, 2017, there were no outstanding borrowings under our senior revolving credit facility, u.s. receivables securitization facility or our commercial paper program. we estimate that a 10% change in interest rates would have had less than a $1 million impact on earnings based on our average variable-rate debt outstanding per year. 60 table of contentsrisk factors ; part i, item 3. legal proceedings ; part ii, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation s; and notes 2 and 19 to the consolidated financial statements. we have made, and intend to continue to make, the expenditures necessary for compliance with applicable laws and regulations relating to environmental, health and safety matters. we incurred capital expenditures of $212 million in 2018 for health, safety and environmental compliance purposes and improvement programs, and estimate such expenditures to be approximately $230 million in each of 2019 and 2020. while capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance, including compliance with potential legislation and potential regulation related to climate change, cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not believe they will have a material effect on our competitive position. while there can be no assurance that physical risks to our facilities and supply chain due to climate change will not occur in the future, we do not believe these risks are material in the near term. employee relations as of december 31, 2018, we employed approximately 19,450 full-time and part-time employees around the world. of this total, 8,900 were located in north america and another 8,100 were located in europe. the remainder of our employees are in other global locations. as of december 31, 2018, approximately 900 of our employees in north america were represented by labor unions. the vast majority of our employees in europe and south america are subject to staff council or works council coverage or collective bargaining agreements. in addition to our own employees, we use the services of contractors in the routine conduct of our businesses. 13 table of contents executive officers of the registrant our executive officers as of february 1, 2019 were as follows: name and age significant experience bhavesh v. ( bob ) patel, 52 chief executive officer since january 2015 and member of the board of directors since june 2018. executive vice president, olefins and polyolefins eai and technology from october 2013 to january 2015. senior vice president, olefins and polyolefins eai and technology from november 2010 to october 2013. senior vice president, olefins and polyolefins americas from march 2010 to june 2011. thomas aebischer, 57 executive vice president and chief financial officer since january 2016. chief financial officer of lafargeholcim from july 2015 to december 2015. chief financial officer of holcim ltd. from january 2011 to june 2015. paul augustowski, 58 senior vice president, olefins &amp; polyolefins americas since january 2016. vice president, polymer sales americas from january 2015 to january 2016. director, polypropylene and catalloy americas from november 2011 to january 2015. darleen caron, 54 executive vice president and chief human resources officer since october 2017. executive vice president of global human resources and member of the office of the president at snc lavalin group, inc. from december 2010 to december 2015. daniel coombs, 62 executive vice president, global manufacturing, projects and refining since october 2018. executive vice president, global manufacturing, projects, refining and technology from february 2017 to october 2018. executive vice president, global olefins and polyolefins, and technology from january 2016 to february 2017. executive vice president, intermediates and derivatives from may 2015 to january 2016. senior vice president of manufacturing for chevron phillips chemical from december 2013 to may 2015. senior vice president for specialties, aromatics and styrenics for chevron phillips chemical from december 2011 to november 2013. vice president of corporate planning and development for chevron phillips chemical from september 2011 to november 2011. massimo covezzi, 61 senior vice president, research and development since january 2008. 14 table of contents name and age significant experience stephen doktycz, 57 senior vice president, strategic planning and transactions since march 2017. corporate director and executive project lead at the dow chemical company from 2013 to march 2017. global director, corporate and strategic development at the dow chemical company from 2011 to 2013. dale friedrichs, 55 vice president, health, safety, environment and security since february 2017. site manager of various facilities from january 1995 to february 2017. james guilfoyle, 48 executive vice president, advanced polymer solutions &amp; global supply chain since july 2018. senior vice president, global intermediates &amp; derivatives and global supply chain from february 2017 to july 2018. senior vice president, global intermediates and derivatives from june 2015 to february 2017. vice president of global propylene oxide and co-products from march 2015 to may 2015. director of polymer sales americas from january 2012 to february 2015. jeffrey kaplan, 50 executive vice president and chief legal officer since march 2015. deputy general counsel from december 2009 to march 2015. richard roudeix, 56 senior vice president, olefins &amp; polyolefins, europe, asia and international since february 2017. senior vice president, olefins &amp; polyolefins, europe from march 2015 to february 2017. director, olefins europe from may 2009 to march 2015. 15 table of contents description of properties our principal manufacturing facilities as of december 31, 2018 are set forth below, and are identified by the principal segment or segments using the facility. all of the facilities are wholly owned, except as otherwise noted. location segment americas bayport (pasadena), texas i&amp;d bayport (pasadena), texas (1) i&amp;d bayport (pasadena), texas o&amp;p americas channelview, texas (2) o&amp;p americas channelview, texas (1)(2) i&amp;d chocolate bayou, texas o&amp;p americas clinton, iowa o&amp;p americas corpus christi, texas o&amp;p americas edison, new jersey o&amp;p americas houston, texas refining la porte, texas (3) o&amp;p americas la porte, texas (3)(4) i&amp;d lake charles, louisiana o&amp;p americas matagorda, texas o&amp;p americas morris, illinois o&amp;p americas tuscola, illinois o&amp;p americas victoria, texas o&amp;p americas europe berre l'etang, france o&amp;p eai botlek, rotterdam, the netherlands i&amp;d brindisi, italy o&amp;p eai carrington, uk o&amp;p eai ferrara, italy o&amp;p eai technology fos-sur-mer, france i&amp;d frankfurt, germany o&amp;p eai technology knapsack, germany o&amp;p eai kerpen, germany aps ludwigshafen, germany technology maasvlakte, the netherlands (5) i&amp;d moerdijk, the netherlands aps m nchsm nster, germany o&amp;p eai tarragona, spain (6) o&amp;p eai aps wesseling, germany o&amp;p eai 16 table of contents location segment asia pacific geelong, australia o&amp;p eai the facility is located on leased land. (1) the bayport po/tba plants and the channelview po/sm i plant are held by the u.s. po joint venture between covestro and lyondell chemical company. these plants are located on land leased by the u.s. po joint venture. (2) equistar chemicals, lp operates a styrene maleic anhydride unit and a polybutadiene unit, which are owned by an unrelated party and are located within the channelview facility on property leased from equistar chemicals, lp. (3) the la porte facilities are on contiguous property. (4) the la porte methanol facility is owned by la porte methanol company, a partnership owned 85% by us. (5) the maasvlakte plant is owned by the european po joint venture and is located on land leased by the european po joint venture. (6) the tarragona pp facility is located on leased land; the compounds facility is located on co-owned land. other locations and properties we maintain executive offices in london, the united kingdom; rotterdam, the netherlands; and houston, texas. we maintain research facilities in lansing, michigan; channelview, texas; cincinnati, ohio; ferrara, italy and frankfurt, germany. our asia pacific headquarters are in hong kong. we also have technical support centers in bayreuth, germany; geelong, australia and tarragona, spain. we have various sales facilities worldwide. website access to sec reports our internet website address is http://www.lyb.com . information contained on our internet website is not part of this report on form 10-k. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are available on our website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with, or furnished to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission. alternatively, you may access these reports at the sec's website at http://www.sec.gov . 17 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. you should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k. each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. our business, including our results of operations and reputation, could be adversely affected by safety or product liability issues. failure to appropriately manage safety, human health, product liability and environmental risks associated with our products, product life cycles and production processes could adversely impact employees, communities, stakeholders, our reputation and our results of operations. public perception of the risks associated with our products and production processes could impact product acceptance and influence the regulatory environment in which we operate. while we have procedures and controls to manage safety risks, issues could be created by events outside of our control, including natural disasters, severe weather events and acts of sabotage. our operations are subject to risks inherent in chemical and refining businesses, and we could be subject to liabilities for which we are not fully insured or that are not otherwise mitigated. we maintain property, business interruption, product, general liability, casualty and other types of insurance that we believe are appropriate for our business and operations as well as in line with industry practices. however, we are not fully insured against all potential hazards incident to our business, including losses resulting from natural disasters, wars or terrorist acts. changes in insurance market conditions have caused, and may in the future cause, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies to increase substantially and, in some instances, for certain insurance to become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. if we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, we might not be able to finance the amount of the uninsured liability on terms acceptable to us or at all, and might be obligated to divert a significant portion of our cash flow from normal business operations. further, because a part of our business involves licensing polyolefin process technology, our licensees are exposed to similar risks involved in the manufacture and marketing of polyolefins. hazardous incidents involving our licensees, if they do result or are perceived to result from use of our technologies, may harm our reputation, threaten our relationships with other licensees and/or lead to customer attrition and financial losses. our policy of covering these risks through contractual limitations of liability and indemnities and through insurance may not always be effective. as a result, our financial condition and results of operation would be adversely affected, and other companies with competing technologies may have the opportunity to secure a competitive advantage. a sustained decrease in the price of crude oil may adversely impact the results of our operations, primarily in north america. energy costs generally follow price trends of crude oil and natural gas. these price trends may be highly volatile and cyclical. in the past, raw material and energy costs have experienced significant fluctuations that adversely affected our business segments' results of operations. for example, we have benefited from the favorable ratio of u.s. crude oil prices to natural gas prices in recent years. if the price of crude oil remains lower relative to u.s. natural gas prices or if the demand for natural gas and ngls increases, this may have a negative impact on our results of operations. costs and limitations on supply of raw materials and energy may result in increased operating expenses. the costs of raw materials and energy represent a substantial portion of our operating expenses. due to the significant competition we face and the commodity nature of many of our products we are not always able to pass on raw material and energy cost increases to our customers. when we do have the ability to pass on the cost increases, we are not always able to do so quickly enough to avoid adverse impacts on our results of operations. 18 table of contents cost increases for raw materials also may increase working capital needs, which could reduce our liquidity and cash flow. even if we increase our sales prices to reflect rising raw material and energy costs, demand for products may decrease as customers reduce their consumption or use substitute products, which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. in addition, producers in natural gas cost-advantaged regions, such as the middle east and north america, benefit from the lower prices of natural gas and ngls. competition from producers in these regions may cause us to reduce exports from europe and elsewhere. any such reductions may increase competition for product sales within europe and other markets, which can result in lower margins in those regions. for some of our raw materials and utilities there are a limited number of suppliers and, in some cases, the supplies are specific to the particular geographic region in which a facility is located. it is also common in the chemical and refining industries for a facility to have a sole, dedicated source for its utilities, such as steam, electricity and gas. having a sole or limited number of suppliers may limit our negotiating power, particularly in the case of rising raw material costs. any new supply agreements we enter into may not have terms as favorable as those contained in our current supply agreements. additionally, there is growing concern over the reliability of water sources, including around the texas gulf coast where several of our facilities are located. the decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result of population growth, drought or regulation could negatively impact our operations. if our raw material or utility supplies were disrupted, our businesses may incur increased costs to procure alternative supplies or incur excessive downtime, which would have a direct negative impact on plant operations. disruptions of supplies may occur as a result of transportation issues resulting from natural disasters, water levels, and interruptions in marine water routes, among other causes, that can affect the operations of vessels, barges, rails, trucks and pipeline traffic. these risks are particularly prevalent in the u.s. gulf coast area. additionally, increasing exports of ngls and crude oil from the u.s. or greater restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could restrict the availability of our raw materials, thereby increasing our costs. with increased volatility in raw material costs, our suppliers could impose more onerous terms on us, resulting in shorter payment cycles and increasing our working capital requirements. our ability to source raw materials may be adversely affected by political instability, civil disturbances or other governmental actions. we obtain a portion of our principal raw materials from sources in the middle east and central and south america that may be less politically stable than other areas in which we conduct business, such as europe or the u.s. political instability, civil disturbances and actions by governments in these areas are more likely to substantially increase the price and decrease the supply of raw materials necessary for our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. increased incidents of civil unrest, including terrorist attacks and demonstrations that have been marked by violence, have occurred in a number of countries in the middle east and south america. some political regimes in these countries are threatened or have changed as a result of such unrest. political instability and civil unrest could continue to spread in the region and involve other areas. such unrest, if it continues to spread or grow in intensity, could lead to civil wars, regional conflicts or regime changes resulting in governments that are hostile to countries in which we conduct substantial business, such as in europe, the u.s., or their respective trading partners. economic disruptions and downturns in general, and particularly continued global economic uncertainty or economic turmoil in emerging markets, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. our results of operations can be materially affected by adverse conditions in the financial markets and depressed economic conditions generally. economic downturns in the businesses and geographic areas in which we sell our products could substantially reduce demand for our products and result in decreased sales volumes and increased credit risk. recessionary environments adversely affect our business because demand for our products is reduced, particularly from our customers in industrial markets generally and the automotive and housing industries specifically, and may result in higher costs of capital. a significant portion of our revenues and earnings are derived from our business in europe, including southern 19 table of contents europe. in addition, most of our european transactions and assets, including cash reserves and receivables, are denominated in euros. we also derive significant revenues from our business in emerging markets, particularly the emerging markets in asia and south america. any broad-based downturn in these emerging markets, or in a key market such as china, could require us to reduce export volumes into these markets and could also require us to divert product sales to less profitable markets. any of these conditions could ultimately harm our overall business, prospects, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. the cyclicality and volatility of the industries in which we participate may cause significant fluctuations in our operating results. our business operations are subject to the cyclical and volatile nature of the supply-demand balance in the chemical and refining industries. our future operating results are expected to continue to be affected by this cyclicality and volatility. the chemical and refining industries historically have experienced alternating periods of capacity shortages, causing prices and profit margins to increase, followed by periods of excess capacity, resulting in oversupply, declining capacity utilization rates and declining prices and profit margins. in addition to changes in the supply and demand for products, changes in energy prices and other worldwide economic conditions can cause volatility. these factors result in significant fluctuations in profits and cash flow from period to period and over business cycles. new capacity additions in asia, the middle east and north america may lead to periods of oversupply and lower profitability. a sizable number of expansions have recently started up in north america. the timing and extent of any changes to currently prevailing market conditions are uncertain and supply and demand may be unbalanced at any time. as a consequence, we are unable to accurately predict the extent or duration of future industry cycles or their effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we sell products in highly competitive global markets and face significant price pressures. we sell our products in highly competitive global markets. due to the commodity nature of many of our products, competition in these markets is based primarily on price and, to a lesser extent, on product performance, product quality, product deliverability, reliability of supply and customer service. often, we are not able to protect our market position for these products by product differentiation and may not be able to pass on cost increases to our customers due to the significant competition in our business. in addition, we face increased competition from companies that may have greater financial resources and different cost structures or strategic goals than us. these include large integrated oil companies (some of which also have chemical businesses), government-owned businesses, and companies that receive subsidies or other government incentives to produce certain products in a specified geographic region. continuing competition from these companies, especially in our olefin and refining businesses, could limit our ability to increase product sales prices in response to raw material and other cost increases, or could cause us to reduce product sales prices to compete effectively, which would reduce our profitability. competitors with different cost structures or strategic goals than we have may be able to invest significant capital into their businesses, including expenditures for research and development. in addition, specialty products we produce may become commoditized over time. increased competition could result in lower prices or lower sales volumes, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. interruptions of operations at our facilities may result in liabilities or lower operating results. we own and operate large-scale facilities. our operating results are dependent on the continued operation of our various production facilities and the ability to complete construction and maintenance projects on schedule. interruptions at our facilities may materially reduce the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility, or our business as a whole, during and after the period of such operational difficulties. in the past, we had to shut down plants on the u.s. gulf coast, including the temporary shutdown of a portion of our houston refinery, as a result of hurricanes striking the texas coast. in addition, because the houston refinery is our only refining operation, an outage at the refinery could have a particularly 20 table of contents negative impact on our operating results. unlike our chemical and polymer production facilities, which may have sufficient excess capacity to mitigate the negative impact of lost production at other facilities, we do not have the ability to increase refining production elsewhere. although we take precautions to enhance the safety of our operations and minimize the risk of disruptions, our operations are subject to hazards inherent in chemical manufacturing and refining and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes. these potential hazards include: pipeline leaks and ruptures; explosions; fires; severe weather and natural disasters; mechanical failure; unscheduled downtimes; supplier disruptions; labor shortages or other labor difficulties; transportation interruptions; remediation complications; increased restrictions on, or the unavailability of, water for use at our manufacturing sites or for the transport of our products or raw materials; chemical and oil spills; discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases; shipment of incorrect or off-specification product to customers; storage tank leaks; other environmental risks; and terrorist acts. some of these hazards may cause severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment or personal injury and loss of life and may result in suspension of operations or the shutdown of affected facilities. large capital projects can take many years to complete, and market conditions could deteriorate significantly between the project approval date and the project startup date, negatively impacting project returns. if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs and in a timely manner, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs involving engineering, procurement and construction of facilities could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve forecasted internal rates of return and operating results. delays in making required changes or upgrades to our facilities could subject us to fines or penalties as well as affect our ability to supply certain products we produce. such delays or cost increases may arise as a result of unpredictable factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: denial of or delay in receiving requisite regulatory approvals and/or permits; unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor; disruptions in transportation of components or construction materials; 21 table of contents adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires or spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors or suppliers; shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages; and nonperformance by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors or subcontractors. any one or more of these factors could have a significant impact on our ongoing capital projects. if we were unable to make up the delays associated with such factors or to recover the related costs, or if market conditions change, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. increased it security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to our systems, networks, products, facilities and services. increased global information security threats and more sophisticated, targeted computer crime pose a risk to the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data, operations and infrastructure. while we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including security measures, employee training, comprehensive monitoring of our networks and systems, and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our employees, systems, networks, products, facilities and services remain potentially vulnerable to sophisticated espionage or cyber-assault. depending on their nature and scope, such threats could potentially lead to the compromise of confidential information, improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitiveness and results of operations. we operate internationally and are subject to exchange rate fluctuations, exchange controls, political risks and other risks relating to international operations. we operate internationally and are subject to the risks of doing business on a global level. these risks include fluctuations in currency exchange rates, economic instability and disruptions, restrictions on the transfer of funds and the imposition of trade restrictions or duties and tariffs. additional risks from our multinational business include transportation delays and interruptions, war, terrorist activities, epidemics, pandemics, political instability, import and export controls, changes in governmental policies, labor unrest and current and changing regulatory environments. we generate revenues from export sales and operations that may be denominated in currencies other than the relevant functional currency. exchange rates between these currencies and functional currencies in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may do so in the future. it is possible that fluctuations in exchange rates will result in reduced operating results. additionally, we operate with the objective of having our worldwide cash available in the locations where it is needed, including the united kingdom for our parent company's significant cash obligations as a result of dividend and interest payments. it is possible that we may not always be able to provide cash to other jurisdictions when needed or that such transfers of cash could be subject to additional taxes, including withholding taxes. our operating results could be negatively affected by the global laws, rules and regulations, as well as political environments, in the jurisdictions in which we operate. there could be reduced demand for our products, decreases in the prices at which we can sell our products and disruptions of production or other operations. trade protection measures such as quotas, duties, tariffs, safeguard measures or anti-dumping duties imposed in the countries in which we operate could negatively impact our business. additionally, there may be substantial capital and other costs to comply with regulations and/or increased security costs or insurance premiums, any of which could reduce our operating results. we obtain a portion of our principal raw materials from international sources that are subject to these same risks. our compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations to which we may be subject could be challenged. furthermore, these laws may be modified, the result of which may be to prevent or limit subsidiaries from transferring cash to us. furthermore, we are subject to certain existing, and may be subject to possible future, laws that limit or may limit our activities while some of our competitors may not be subject to such laws, which may adversely affect our competitiveness. 22 table of contents changes in tax laws and regulations could affect our tax rate and our results of operations. we are a tax resident in the united kingdom and are subject to the united kingdom corporate income tax system. lyondellbasell industries n.v. has little or no taxable income of its own because, as a holding company, it does not conduct any operations. through our subsidiaries, we have substantial operations world-wide. taxes are primarily paid on the earnings generated in various jurisdictions, including the u.s., the netherlands, germany, france and italy. in 2017, the u.s. enacted h.r.1, also known as the tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ) materially impacting our consolidated financial statements by, among other things, decreasing the tax rate, and significantly affecting future periods. to determine the full effects of the tax law for 2018, we are awaiting the finalization of several proposed u.s. treasury regulations under the tax act that were issued during 2018, as well as additional regulations to be proposed and finalized pursuant to the u.s. treasury's expanded regulatory authority under the tax act. it is also possible that technical correction legislation concerning the tax act could retroactively affect tax liabilities for 2018. we will continue to analyze the tax act to determine the full effects of the new law as additional regulations are proposed and finalized. interest income earned by certain of our european subsidiaries through intercompany financings is either untaxed or taxed at rates substantially lower than the u.s. statutory rate. tax regulations proposed in 2018 may affect tax deductible interest in the u.s. in future periods; however, we do not believe they will have a material impact as proposed. in addition, in 2016 the u.s. treasury issued final section 385 debt-equity regulations that impact our internal financings beginning in 2017. pursuant to a 2017 executive order, the treasury department reviewed these regulations and determined that they should be retained, subject to further review following the enactment of u.s. tax reform. we are awaiting the u.s. treasury's review of the existing section 385 debt-equity regulations which could impact our internal financings in future years as well as any final regulations impacting interest deductions under the tax act. in addition, there has been an increased attention, both in the u.s. and globally, to the tax practices of multinational companies, including the european union's state aid investigations, proposals by the organization for economic cooperation and development with respect to base erosion and profit shifting, and european union tax directives. such attention may result in further legislative changes that could adversely affect our tax rate. other than the tax act, management does not believe that recent changes in income tax laws will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements, although new or proposed changes to tax laws could affect our tax liabilities in the future. many of our businesses depend on our intellectual property. our future success will depend in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, and our inability to do so could reduce our ability to maintain our competitiveness and margins. we have a significant worldwide patent portfolio of issued and pending patents. these patents and patent applications, together with proprietary technical know-how, are significant to our competitive position, particularly with regard to po, intermediate chemicals, polyolefins, licensing and catalysts. we rely on the patent, copyright and trade secret laws of the countries in which we operate to protect our investment in research and development, manufacturing and marketing. however, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without authorization. proceedings to protect these rights could be costly, and we may not prevail. the failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our processes, apparatuses, technology, trade secrets or proprietary know-how could result in significantly lower revenues, reduced profit margins and cash flows and/or loss of market share. we also may be subject to claims that our technology, patents or other intellectual property infringes on a third party's intellectual property rights. unfavorable resolution of these claims could result in restrictions on our ability to deliver the related service or in a settlement that could be material to us. shared control or lack of control of joint ventures may delay decisions or actions regarding our joint ventures. a portion of our operations are conducted through joint ventures, where control may be exercised by or shared with unaffiliated third parties. we cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners, including any nonperformance, default or bankruptcy of joint venture partners. the joint ventures that we do not control may also lack financial reporting systems to provide adequate and timely information for our reporting purposes. 23 table of contents our joint venture partners may have different interests or goals than we do and may take actions contrary to our requests, policies or objectives. differences in views among the joint venture participants also may result in delayed decisions or in failures to agree on major matters, potentially adversely affecting the business and operations of the joint ventures and in turn our business and operations. we may develop a dispute with any of our partners over decisions affecting the venture that may result in litigation, arbitration or some other form of dispute resolution. if a joint venture participant acts contrary to our interest, it could harm our brand, business, results of operations and financial condition. we cannot predict with certainty the extent of future costs under environmental, health and safety and other laws and regulations, and cannot guarantee they will not be material. we may face liability arising out of the normal course of business, including alleged personal injury or property damage due to exposure to chemicals or other hazardous substances at our current or former facilities or chemicals that we manufacture, handle or own. in addition, because our products are components of a variety of other end-use products, we, along with other members of the chemical industry, are subject to potential claims related to those end-use products. any substantial increase in the success of these types of claims could negatively affect our operating results. we are subject to extensive national, regional, state and local environmental laws, regulations, directives, rules and ordinances concerning: emissions to the air; discharges onto land or surface waters or into groundwater; and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials. many of these laws and regulations provide for substantial fines and potential criminal sanctions for violations. some of these laws and regulations are subject to varying and conflicting interpretations. in addition, some of these laws and regulations require us to meet specific financial responsibility requirements. any substantial liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. although we have compliance programs and other processes intended to ensure compliance with all such regulations, we are subject to the risk that our compliance with such regulations could be challenged. non-compliance with certain of these regulations could result in the incurrence of additional costs, penalties or assessments that could be material. our industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and existing, or future regulations may restrict our operations, increase our costs of operations or require us to make additional capital expenditures. compliance with regulatory requirements could result in higher operating costs, such as regulatory requirements relating to emissions, the security of our facilities, and the transportation, export or registration of our products. we generally expect that regulatory controls worldwide will become increasingly more demanding, but cannot accurately predict future developments. increasingly strict environmental laws and inspection and enforcement policies, could affect the handling, manufacture, use, emission or disposal of products, other materials or hazardous and non-hazardous waste. stricter environmental, safety and health laws, regulations and enforcement policies could result in increased operating costs or capital expenditures to comply with such laws and regulations. additionally, we are required to have permits for our businesses and are subject to licensing regulations. these permits and licenses are subject to renewal, modification and in some circumstances, revocation. further, the permits and licenses are often difficult, time consuming and costly to obtain and could contain conditions that limit our operations. we may incur substantial costs to comply with climate change legislation and related regulatory initiatives. there has been a broad range of proposed or promulgated state, national and international laws focusing on greenhouse gas ( ghg ) reduction. these proposed or promulgated laws apply or could apply in countries where we have interests or may 24 table of contents have interests in the future. laws and regulations in this field continue to evolve and, while they are likely to be increasingly widespread and stringent, at this stage it is not possible to accurately estimate either a timetable for implementation or our future compliance costs relating to implementation. under the 2015 paris agreement, parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change agreed to undertake ambitious efforts to reduce ghg emissions and strengthen adaptation to the effects of climate change. while the u.s. notified the united nations in august 2017 that it will be withdrawing from the agreement, other countries in which we operate, including germany, france, and the netherlands, are preparing national climate acts and protection plans to implement their emission reduction commitments under the agreement. these actions could result in increased cost of purchased energy and increased costs of compliance for impacted locations. within the framework of the eu emissions trading scheme ( ets ), we were allocated certain allowances of carbon dioxide for the affected plants of our european sites for the period from 2008 to 2012 ( ets ii period ). the ets ii period did not bring additional cost to us as the allowance allocation was sufficient to cover the actual emissions of the affected plants. we were able to build an allowance surplus during the ets ii period which has been banked to the scheme for the period from 2013 to 2020 ( ets iii period ). we expect to incur additional costs for the ets iii period, despite the allowance surplus accrued over the ets ii period, as allowance allocations have been reduced for the ets iii period and more of our plants are affected by the scheme. we maintain an active hedging strategy to cover these additional costs. we expect to incur additional costs in relation to future carbon or ghg emission trading schemes. in the u.s., the epa has promulgated federal ghg regulations under the clean air act affecting certain sources. the epa has issued mandatory ghg reporting requirements, requirements to obtain ghg permits for certain industrial plants and ghg performance standards for some facilities. although the epa recently proposed to repeal and replace certain ghg requirements, additional ghg regulation may be forthcoming at the u.s. federal or state level that could result in the creation of additional costs in the form of taxes or required acquisition or trading of emission allowances. compliance with these or other changes in laws, regulations and obligations that create a ghg emissions trading scheme or ghg reduction policies generally could significantly increase our costs or reduce demand for products we produce. additionally, compliance with these regulations may result in increased permitting necessary for the operation of our business or for any of our growth plans. difficulties in obtaining such permits could have an adverse effect on our future growth. therefore, any future potential regulations and legislation could result in increased compliance costs, additional operating restrictions or delays in implementing growth projects or other capital investments, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in addition, climate changes, such as drought conditions or increased frequency and severity of hurricanes and floods, could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations . we may be required to record material charges against our earnings due to any number of events that could cause impairments to our assets. we may be required to reduce production or idle facilities for extended periods of time or exit certain businesses as a result of the cyclical nature of our industry. specifically, oversupplies of or lack of demand for particular products or high raw material prices may cause us to reduce production. we may choose to reduce production at certain facilities because we have off-take arrangements at other facilities, which make any reductions or idling unavailable at those facilities. any decision to permanently close facilities or exit a business likely would result in impairment and other charges to earnings. temporary outages at our facilities can last for several quarters and sometimes longer. these outages could cause us to incur significant costs, including the expenses of maintaining and restarting these facilities. in addition, even though we may reduce production at facilities, we may be required to continue to purchase or pay for utilities or raw materials under take-or-pay supply agreements. increased regulation or deselection of plastic could lead to a decrease in demand growth for some of our products. in 2018, the european union proposed rules to target the plastic products most often found on beaches and in seas. in addition, local and other governments have increasingly proposed or implemented bans on plastic items such as disposable bags and straws, as well as other food packaging. additionally, plastics have recently faced increased public backlash and scrutiny. increased regulation of, or prohibition on, the use of plastics could increase the costs incurred by our customers to use such products or otherwise limit the use of these products, and could lead to a decrease in demand for pe, pp, and other products we make. such a decrease in demand could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 25 table of contents our business is capital intensive and we rely on cash generated from operations and external financing to fund our growth and ongoing capital needs. limitations on access to external financing could adversely affect our operating results. we require significant capital to operate our current business and fund our growth strategy. moreover, interest payments, dividends and the expansion of our business or other business opportunities may require significant amounts of capital. we believe that our cash from operations currently will be sufficient to meet these needs. however, if we need external financing, our access to credit markets and pricing of our capital is dependent upon maintaining sufficient credit ratings from credit rating agencies and the state of the capital markets generally. there can be no assurances that we would be able to incur indebtedness on terms we deem acceptable, and it is possible that the cost of any financings could increase significantly, thereby increasing our expenses and decreasing our net income. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or raise adequate external financing, including as a result of significant disruptions in the global credit markets, we could be forced to restrict our operations and growth opportunities, which could adversely affect our operating results. we may use our five-year, $2.5 billion revolving credit facility, which backs our commercial paper program, to meet our cash needs, to the extent available. as of december 31, 2018 , we had no borrowings or letters of credit outstanding under the facility and $809 million , net of discount, outstanding under our commercial paper program, leaving an unused and available credit capacity of $1,688 million . we may also meet our cash needs by selling receivables under our $900 million u.s. accounts receivable facility. in the event of a default under our credit facility or any of our senior notes, we could be required to immediately repay all outstanding borrowings and make cash deposits as collateral for all obligations the facility supports, which we may not be able to do. any default under any of our credit arrangements could cause a default under many of our other credit agreements and debt instruments. without waivers from lenders party to those agreements, any such default could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to operate. legislation and regulatory initiatives could lead to a decrease in demand for our products. new or revised governmental regulations and independent studies relating to the effect of our products on health, safety and the environment may affect demand for our products and the cost of producing our products. initiatives by governments and private interest groups will potentially require increased toxicological testing and risk assessments of a wide variety of chemicals, including chemicals used or produced by us. for example, in the united states, the national toxicology program ( ntp ) is a federal interagency program that seeks to identify and select for study chemicals and other substances to evaluate potential human health hazards. in the european union, the regulation on registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemicals ( reach ) is regulation designed to identify the intrinsic properties of chemical substances, assess hazards and risks of the substances, and identify and implement the risk management measures to protect humans and the environment. assessments under ntp, reach or similar programs or regulations in other jurisdictions may result in heightened concerns about the chemicals we use or produce and may result in additional requirements being placed on the production, handling, labeling or use of those chemicals. such concerns and additional requirements could also increase the cost incurred by our customers to use our chemical products and otherwise limit the use of these products, which could lead to a decrease in demand for these products. such a decrease in demand could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. adverse results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect us. we are subject to and may in the future be subject to a variety of legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business. results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. irrespective of its merits, litigation may be both lengthy and disruptive to our operations and may cause significant expenditure and diversion of management attention. we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations should we fail to prevail in certain matters. significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions relating to pension costs may adversely affect the valuation of pension obligations, the funded status of pension plans, and our pension cost. our pension cost is materially affected by the discount rates used to measure pension obligations, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations at the measurement date and the expected long-term rates of return on plan assets. 26 table of contents significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets may result in corresponding increases and decreases in the value of plan assets, particularly equity securities, or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. any changes in key actuarial assumptions, such as the discount rate or mortality rate, would impact the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported funded status of our pension plans as well as the net periodic pension cost in the following fiscal years. nearly all of our current pension plans have projected benefit obligations that exceed the fair value of the plan assets. as of december 31, 2018, the aggregate deficit was $992 million . any declines in the fair values of the pension plans' assets could require additional payments by us in order to maintain specified funding levels. our pension plans are subject to legislative and regulatory requirements of applicable jurisdictions, which could include, under certain circumstances, local governmental authority to terminate the plan. integration of acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and stock price. we have and may continue to make acquisitions in order to enhance our business. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including with respect to meeting our standards for compliance, problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs and liabilities, diversion of management's attention from our core businesses, and potential loss of key employees. there can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate successfully any businesses, products, technologies, or personnel that we might acquire. the integration of businesses that we may acquire is likely to be a complex, time-consuming, and expensive process and we may not realize the anticipated revenues, synergies, or other benefits associated with our acquisitions if we do not manage and operate the acquired business up to our expectations. if we are unable to efficiently operate as a combined organization utilizing common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls, and human resources practices, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. 27 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for discussion of lyondellbasell industries n.v.'s management of commodity price risk, foreign currency exposure and interest rate risk through its use of derivative instruments and hedging activities. commodity price risk a substantial portion of our products and raw materials are commodities whose prices fluctuate as market supply and demand fundamentals change. accordingly, product margins and the level of our profitability tend to fluctuate with changes in 59 table of contents the business cycle. natural gas, crude oil and refined products, along with feedstocks for ethylene and propylene production, constitutes the main commodity exposures. we try to protect against such instability through various business strategies including provisions in sales contracts which allows us to pass on higher raw material costs to our customers through timely price increases and through the use of commodity swap and futures contracts. we use value at risk ( var ), stress testing and scenario analysis for risk measurement and control purposes. var estimates the maximum potential loss in fair market values for our commodity derivative instruments, given a certain move in prices over a certain period of time, using specified confidence levels. utilizing a monte carlo simulation with a 95 percent confidence level over a 3-day time horizon, the effect on our pre-tax income and cash flows for the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017 would be immaterial. foreign exchange risk we manufacture and market our products in many countries throughout the world and, as a result, are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. a significant portion of our reporting entities use the euro as their functional currency. our reporting currency is the u.s. dollar. the translation gains or losses that result from the process of translating the euro denominated financial statements to u.s. dollars are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income ( aoci ) until such time as those entities may be liquidated or sold. changes in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro can therefore have a significant impact on comprehensive income. we have entered into hedging arrangements designated as net investment hedges to reduce the volatility in stockholders' equity resulting from foreign currency fluctuation associated with our net investments in foreign operations. the table below illustrates the impact on other comprehensive loss of a 10% fluctuation in the foreign currency rate associated with each net investment hedge and the euribor and libor rates associated with basis swaps are shown in the table below: december 31, 2018 net investment hedges notional amount 10% variance on foreign currency rate impact on other comprehensive loss basis swaps 617 million euro/u.s. dollar rate $69 million euribor and libor rates less than $1 million guaranteed euro notes due 2022 750 million euro/u.s. dollar rate $86 million some of our operations enter into transactions that are not denominated in their functional currency. this results in exposure to foreign currency risk for financial instruments, including, but not limited to third party and intercompany receivables and payables and intercompany loans. we maintain risk management control practices to monitor the foreign currency risk attributable to our inter-company and third party outstanding foreign currency balances. these practices involve the centralization of our exposure to underlying currencies that are not subject to central bank and/or country specific restrictions. by centralizing most of our foreign currency exposure into one subsidiary, we are able to take advantage of any natural offsets thereby reducing the overall impact of changes in foreign currency rates on our earnings. at december 31, 2018, a 10% fluctuation compared to the u.s. dollar in the underlying currencies that have no central bank or other currency restrictions related to non-hedged monetary net assets would have had a resulting additional impact to earnings of approximately $3 million. our policy is to maintain an approximately balanced position in foreign currencies to minimize exchange gains and losses arising from changes in exchange rates. to minimize the effects of our net currency exchange exposures, we enter into foreign currency spot and forward contracts and, in some cases, cross-currency swaps. 60 table of contents we also engage in short-term foreign exchange swaps in order to roll certain hedge positions and to make funds available for intercompany financing. our net position in foreign currencies is monitored daily. we have entered into $2,300 million of non-cancellable cross-currency swaps, which we designated as foreign currency cash flow hedges, to reduce the variability in the functional currency equivalent cash flows of certain foreign currency denominated intercompany notes. at december 31, 2018, these foreign currency contracts have maturity dates ranging from 2021 to 2027 and their fair value was a net asset of $96 million. a 10% fluctuation compared to the u.s. dollar would have had a resulting additional impact to other comprehensive loss of approximately $243 million. other income, net, in the consolidated statements of income reflected net exchange rate foreign currency gains of $24 million in 2018 , and foreign currency losses of $1 million in 2017 , and $4 million in 2016 . for forward contracts, including swap transactions, that economically hedge recognized monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies, no hedge accounting is applied. changes in the fair value of foreign currency forward and swap contracts are reported in the consolidated statements of income and offset the currency exchange results recognized on the assets and liabilities. at december 31, 2018, these foreign currency contracts, which will mature between january 2019 and august 2019, inclusively, had an aggregated notional amount of $1,764 million and the fair value was a net liability of $4 million. a 10% fluctuation compared to the u.s. dollar would have had a resulting additional impact to earnings of approximately $96 million. interest rate risk interest rate risk management is viewed as a trade-off between cost and risk. the cost of interest is generally lower for short-term debt and higher for long-term debt, and lower for floating rate debt and higher for fixed rate debt. however, the risk associated with interest rates is inversely related to the cost, with short-term debt carrying a higher refinancing risk and floating rate debt having higher interest rate volatility. our interest rate risk management strategy attempts to optimize this cost/risk/reward tradeoff. we are exposed to interest rate risk with respect to our fixed and variable rate debt. fluctuations in interest rates impact the fair value of fixed-rate debt as well as pre-tax earnings stemming from interest expense on variable-rate debt. to minimize earnings at risk as part of our interest rate risk management strategy, we target to maintain floating rate debt, through the use of interest rate swaps, equal to our cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and tri-party repurchase agreements, as those assets are invested in floating rate instruments. pre-issuance interest rate a pre-issuance interest rate strategy is utilized to mitigate the risk that benchmark interest rates (i.e. u.s. treasury, mid-swaps, etc.) will increase between the time a decision has been made to issue debt and when the actual debt offering is issued. in 2015 and 2018 we entered into forward-starting interest rate swaps to mitigate the risk of adverse changes in the benchmark interest rates on the anticipated refinancing of our senior notes due 2019 and 2021, respectively. these interest rate swaps will be terminated upon debt issuance. at december 31, 2018, the total notional amount of these interest rate contracts designated as cash flow hedges was $1,000 million and $500 million, respectively, and their fair values were a net asset of $7 million and net liability of $5 million, respectively. we estimate that a 10% change in market interest rates as of december 31, 2018 would change the fair value of our forward-starting interest rate swaps outstanding and would have had a resulting impact on other comprehensive loss of approximately $71 million. fixed-rate debt we enter into interest rate swaps as part of our interest rate risk management strategy. at december 31, 2018, the total notional amount of interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges, which have maturity dates ranging from 2019 to 2027, was $3,143 million and their fair value was a net liability of $42 million. at december 31, 2018, after giving consideration to the $3,143 million of fixed-rate debt that we have effectively converted to floating through these u.s. dollar fixed-for-floating interest rate swaps, approximately 58% of our debt portfolio, on a gross basis, incurred interest at a fixed-rate and the remaining 42% of the portfolio incurred interest at a variable-rate. we estimate that a 10% change in market interest rates as of december 31, 2018 would change the fair value of our interest rate swaps outstanding and would have had a resulting impact on our pre-tax income of approximately $26 million. 61 table of contents variable-rate debt our variable rate debt consists of our $2,500 million senior revolving credit facility, our $900 million u.s. receivables securitization facility and our commercial paper program. at december 31, 2018, there were no outstanding borrowings under our senior revolving credit facility nor u.s. receivables securitization facility. our commercial paper program had outstanding borrowings of $809 million at december 31, 2018. we estimate that a 10% change in interest rates would have had a $2 million impact on earnings based on our average variable-rate debt outstanding per year. 62 table of contentsrisk factors 20 risk factors ; part i, item 3. legal proceedings ; part ii, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation s; and notes 2 and 19 to the consolidated financial statements. we have made, and intend to continue to make, the expenditures necessary for compliance with applicable laws and regulations relating to environmental, health and safety matters. we incurred capital expenditures of $195 million in 2019 for health, safety and environmental compliance purposes and improvement programs, and estimate such expenditures to be approximately $275 million in 2020 and $290 million in 2021. while capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance, including compliance with potential legislation and potential regulation related to climate change, cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not believe they will have a material effect on our competitive position. while there can be no assurance that physical risks to our facilities and supply chain due to climate change will not occur in the future, we do not believe these risks are material in the near term. employee relations as of december 31, 2019, we employed approximately 19,100 full-time and part-time employees around the world. of this total, 8,900 were located in north america and another 8,200 were located in europe. the remainder of our employees are in other global locations. as of december 31, 2019, approximately 900 of our employees in north america were represented by labor unions. the vast majority of our employees in europe and south america are subject to staff council or works council coverage or collective bargaining agreements. in addition to our own employees, we use the services of contractors in the routine conduct of our businesses. 14 table of contents information about our executive officers our executive officers as of february 20, 2020 were as follows: name and age significant experience bhavesh v. ( bob ) patel, 53 chief executive officer since january 2015 and member of the board of directors since june 2018. executive vice president, olefins and polyolefins eai and technology from october 2013 to january 2015. senior vice president, olefins and polyolefins eai and technology from november 2010 to october 2013. senior vice president, olefins and polyolefins americas from march 2010 to june 2011. michael c. mcmurray, 55 executive vice president and chief financial officer since november 2019. senior vice president and chief financial officer at owens corning, a global manufacturer of insulation, roofing and fiberglass composites, from august 2012 to november 2019. daniel coombs, 63 executive vice president, global manufacturing, projects and refining since october 2018. executive vice president, global manufacturing, projects, refining and technology from february 2017 to october 2018. executive vice president, global olefins and polyolefins and technology from january 2016 to february 2017. executive vice president, intermediates and derivatives from may 2015 to january 2016. senior vice president of manufacturing for chevron phillips chemical, a global chemical company, from december 2013 to may 2015. james guilfoyle, 49 executive vice president, advanced polymer solutions &amp; global supply chain since july 2018. senior vice president, global intermediates &amp; derivatives and global supply chain from february 2017 to july 2018. senior vice president, global intermediates and derivatives from june 2015 to february 2017. vice president of global propylene oxide and co-products from march 2015 to may 2015. director of polymer sales americas from january 2012 to february 2015. 15 table of contents name and age significant experience jeffrey kaplan, 51 executive vice president and chief legal officer since march 2015. deputy general counsel from december 2009 to march 2015. kenneth ( ken ) lane, 51 executive vice president, global olefins and polyolefins since july 2019. president, monomers division at basf, a german chemical company, from january 2019 to july 2019. president, global catalysts at basf from june 2013 to december 2018. torkel rhenman, 56 executive vice president, intermediates &amp; derivatives since july 2019. chief executive officer and director of lhoist group, a privately held minerals and mining company, from 2012 to 2017. dale friedrichs, 56 senior vice president, human resources since october 2019. vice president, health, safety, environment and security from february 2017 to october 2019. site manager of various facilities from january 1995 to february 2017. james seward, 52 senior vice president, research &amp; development, technology and sustainability since july 2019. senior vice president, technology business, sustainability, and olefins &amp; polyolefins, europe, asia and international joint venture management from september 2018 to july 2019. vice president, joint ventures and international marketing from may 2014 to august 2018. anup sharma, 45 senior vice president, global business services since february 2019. vice president and ge corporate officer at ge digital, a software company for industrial businesses, from may 2016 to february 2019. global chief information officer at ge oil &amp; gas, a division of general electric that owned investments in the petroleum industry, from 2011 to 2016. kim foley, 53 vice president, health, safety and environment since october 2019. site manager at channelview from may 2017 to october 2019. senior director, global supply chain from january 2016 to may 2017. director, supply chain, americas from august 2010 to january 2016. 16 table of contents description of properties our principal manufacturing facilities as of december 31, 2019 are set forth below and are identified by the principal segment or segments using the facility. all of the facilities are wholly owned, except as otherwise noted. location segment americas bayport (pasadena), texas i&amp;d bayport (pasadena), texas (1) i&amp;d bayport (pasadena), texas o&amp;p americas channelview, texas (2) o&amp;p americas channelview, texas (1)(2) i&amp;d chocolate bayou, texas o&amp;p americas clinton, iowa o&amp;p americas corpus christi, texas o&amp;p americas edison, new jersey o&amp;p americas houston, texas refining la porte, texas (3) o&amp;p americas la porte, texas (3) i&amp;d lake charles, louisiana o&amp;p americas matagorda, texas o&amp;p americas morris, illinois o&amp;p americas tuscola, illinois o&amp;p americas victoria, texas o&amp;p americas 17 table of contents location segment europe berre l'etang, france o&amp;p eai botlek, rotterdam, the netherlands i&amp;d brindisi, italy o&amp;p eai carrington, uk o&amp;p eai ferrara, italy o&amp;p eai technology fos-sur-mer, france i&amp;d frankfurt, germany o&amp;p eai technology knapsack, germany o&amp;p eai aps kerpen, germany aps ludwigshafen, germany technology maasvlakte, the netherlands (4) i&amp;d moerdijk, the netherlands aps m nchsm nster, germany o&amp;p eai tarragona, spain (5) o&amp;p eai aps wesseling, germany o&amp;p eai asia-pacific geelong, australia o&amp;p eai the facility is located on leased land. (1) the bayport po/tba plants and the channelview po/sm i plant are held by the u.s. po joint venture between covestro and lyondell chemical company. these plants are located on land leased by the u.s. po joint venture. (2) equistar chemicals, lp operates a styrene maleic anhydride unit and a polybutadiene unit, which are owned by an unrelated party and are located within the channelview facility on property leased from equistar chemicals, lp. (3) the la porte facilities are on contiguous property. (4) the maasvlakte plant is owned by the european po joint venture and is located on land leased by the european po joint venture. (5) the tarragona pp facility is located on leased land; the compounds facility is located on co-owned land. other locations and properties we maintain executive offices in london, the united kingdom; rotterdam, the netherlands; and houston, texas. we maintain research facilities in lansing, michigan; channelview, texas; cincinnati, ohio; ferrara, italy and frankfurt, germany. our asia-pacific headquarters are in hong kong. we also have technical support centers in bayreuth, germany; geelong, australia and tarragona, spain. we have various sales facilities worldwide. 18 table of contents website access to sec reports our internet website address is http://www.lyondellbasell.com . information contained on our internet website is not part of this report on form 10-k. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are available on our website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with, or furnished to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission. alternatively, you may access these reports at the sec's website at http://www.sec.gov . 19 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. you should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k. each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. our business, including our results of operations and reputation, could be adversely affected by safety or product liability issues. failure to appropriately manage safety, human health, product liability and environmental risks associated with our products, product life cycles and production processes could adversely impact employees, communities, stakeholders, our reputation and our results of operations. public perception of the risks associated with our products and production processes could impact product acceptance and influence the regulatory environment in which we operate. while we have procedures and controls to manage safety risks, issues could be created by events outside of our control, including natural disasters, severe weather events and acts of sabotage. the cyclicality and volatility of the industries in which we participate may cause significant fluctuations in our operating results. our business operations are subject to the cyclical and volatile nature of the supply-demand balance in the chemical and refining industries. our future operating results are expected to continue to be affected by this cyclicality and volatility. the chemical and refining industries historically have experienced alternating periods of capacity shortages, causing prices and profit margins to increase, followed by periods of excess capacity, resulting in oversupply, declining capacity utilization rates and declining prices and profit margins. in addition to changes in the supply and demand for products, changes in energy prices and other worldwide economic conditions can cause volatility. these factors result in significant fluctuations in profits and cash flow from period to period and over business cycles. new capacity additions in asia, the middle east and north america may lead to periods of oversupply and lower profitability. a sizable number of expansions have recently started up in north america. the timing and extent of any changes to currently prevailing market conditions are uncertain and supply and demand may be unbalanced at any time. as a consequence, we are unable to accurately predict the extent or duration of future industry cycles or their effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operations are subject to risks inherent in chemical and refining businesses, and we could be subject to liabilities for which we are not fully insured or that are not otherwise mitigated. we maintain property, business interruption, product, general liability, casualty and other types of insurance that we believe are appropriate for our business and operations as well as in line with industry practices. however, we are not fully insured against all potential hazards incident to our business, including losses resulting from natural disasters, wars or terrorist acts. changes in insurance market conditions have caused, and may in the future cause, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies to increase substantially and, in some instances, for certain insurance to become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. if we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, we might not be able to finance the amount of the uninsured liability on terms acceptable to us or at all, and might be obligated to divert a significant portion of our cash flow from normal business operations. further, because a part of our business involves licensing polyolefin process technology, our licensees are exposed to similar risks involved in the manufacture and marketing of polyolefins. hazardous incidents involving our licensees, if they do result or are perceived to result from use of our technologies, may harm our reputation, threaten our relationships with other licensees and/or lead to customer attrition and financial losses. our policy of covering these risks through contractual limitations of liability and indemnities and through insurance may not always be 20 table of contents effective. as a result, our financial condition and results of operation would be adversely affected, and other companies with competing technologies may have the opportunity to secure a competitive advantage. a sustained decrease in the price of crude oil may adversely impact the results of our operations, primarily in north america. energy costs generally follow price trends of crude oil and natural gas. these price trends may be highly volatile and cyclical. in the past, raw material and energy costs have experienced significant fluctuations that adversely affected our business segments' results of operations. for example, we have benefited from the favorable ratio of u.s. crude oil prices to natural gas prices in recent years. if the price of crude oil remains lower relative to u.s. natural gas prices or if the demand for natural gas and ngls increases, this may have a negative impact on our results of operations. costs and limitations on supply of raw materials and energy may result in increased operating expenses. the costs of raw materials and energy represent a substantial portion of our operating expenses. due to the significant competition we face and the commodity nature of many of our products we are not always able to pass on raw material and energy cost increases to our customers. when we do have the ability to pass on the cost increases, we are not always able to do so quickly enough to avoid adverse impacts on our results of operations. cost increases for raw materials also may increase working capital needs, which could reduce our liquidity and cash flow. even if we increase our sales prices to reflect rising raw material and energy costs, demand for products may decrease as customers reduce their consumption or use substitute products, which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. in addition, producers in natural gas cost-advantaged regions, such as the middle east and north america, benefit from the lower prices of natural gas and ngls. competition from producers in these regions may cause us to reduce exports from europe and elsewhere. any such reductions may increase competition for product sales within europe and other markets, which can result in lower margins in those regions. for some of our raw materials and utilities there are a limited number of suppliers and, in some cases, the supplies are specific to the particular geographic region in which a facility is located. it is also common in the chemical and refining industries for a facility to have a sole, dedicated source for its utilities, such as steam, electricity and gas. having a sole or limited number of suppliers may limit our negotiating power, particularly in the case of rising raw material costs. any new supply agreements we enter into may not have terms as favorable as those contained in our current supply agreements. additionally, there is growing concern over the reliability of water sources, including around the texas gulf coast where several of our facilities are located. the decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result of population growth, drought or regulation could negatively impact our operations, including by impacting our ability to produce or transport our products. if our raw material or utility supplies were disrupted, our businesses may incur increased costs to procure alternative supplies or incur excessive downtime, which would have a negative impact on plant operations. disruptions of supplies may occur as a result of transportation issues resulting from natural disasters, water levels, and interruptions in marine water routes, among other causes, that can affect the operations of vessels, barges, rails, trucks and pipeline traffic. these risks are particularly prevalent in the u.s. gulf coast area. additionally, increasing exports of ngls and crude oil from the u.s. or greater restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could restrict the availability of our raw materials, thereby increasing our costs. with increased volatility in raw material costs, our suppliers could impose more onerous terms on us, resulting in shorter payment cycles and increasing our working capital requirements. 21 table of contents our ability to source raw materials may be adversely affected by political instability, civil disturbances or other governmental actions. we obtain a portion of our principal raw materials from sources in the middle east and central and south america that may be less politically stable than other areas in which we conduct business, such as the u.s. or europe. political instability, civil disturbances and actions by governments in these areas are more likely to substantially increase the price and decrease the supply of raw materials necessary for our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. increased incidents of civil unrest, including terrorist attacks and demonstrations that have been marked by violence, have occurred in a number of countries in the middle east and south america. some political regimes in these countries are threatened or have changed as a result of such unrest. political instability and civil unrest could continue to spread in the region and involve other areas. such unrest, if it continues to spread or grow in intensity, could lead to civil wars, regional conflicts or regime changes resulting in governments that are hostile to countries in which we conduct substantial business, such as in the u.s., europe or their respective trading partners. economic disruptions and downturns in general, and particularly continued global economic uncertainty or economic turmoil in emerging markets, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. our results of operations can be materially affected by adverse conditions in the financial markets and depressed economic conditions generally. economic downturns in the businesses and geographic areas in which we sell our products could substantially reduce demand for our products and result in decreased sales volumes and increased credit risk. recessionary environments adversely affect our business because demand for our products is reduced, particularly from our customers in industrial markets generally and the automotive and housing industries specifically, and may result in higher costs of capital. a significant portion of our revenues and earnings are derived from our business in europe, including southern europe. in addition, most of our european transactions and assets, including cash reserves and receivables, are denominated in euros. we also derive significant revenues from our business in emerging markets, particularly the emerging markets in asia and south america. any broad-based downturn in these emerging markets, or in a key market such as china, could require us to reduce export volumes into these markets and could also require us to divert product sales to less profitable markets. any of these conditions could ultimately harm our overall business, prospects, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. we sell products in highly competitive global markets and face significant price pressures. we sell our products in highly competitive global markets. due to the commodity nature of many of our products, competition in these markets is based primarily on price and, to a lesser extent, on product performance, product quality, product deliverability, reliability of supply and customer service. often, we are not able to protect our market position for these products by product differentiation and may not be able to pass on cost increases to our customers due to the significant competition in our business. in addition, we face increased competition from companies that may have greater financial resources and different cost structures or strategic goals than us. these include large integrated oil companies (some of which also have chemical businesses), government-owned businesses, and companies that receive subsidies or other government incentives to produce certain products in a specified geographic region. continuing competition from these companies, especially in our olefin and refining businesses, could limit our ability to increase product sales prices in response to raw material and other cost increases, or could cause us to reduce product sales prices to compete effectively, which would reduce our profitability. competitors with different cost structures or strategic goals than we have may be able to invest significant capital into their businesses, including expenditures for research and development. in addition, specialty products we produce may become commoditized over time. increased competition could result in lower prices or lower sales volumes, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. 22 table of contents interruptions of operations at our facilities may result in increased liabilities or lower operating results. we own and operate large-scale facilities. our operating results are dependent on the continued operation of our various production facilities and the ability to complete construction and maintenance projects on schedule. interruptions at our facilities may materially reduce the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility, or our business as a whole, during and after the period of such operational difficulties. in the past, we have had to shut down plants on the u.s. gulf coast, including the temporary shutdown of a portion of our houston refinery, as a result of hurricanes striking the texas coast. in addition, because the houston refinery is our only refining operation, an outage at the refinery could have a particularly negative impact on our operating results as we do not have the ability to increase refining production elsewhere. although we take precautions to enhance the safety of our operations and minimize the risk of disruptions, our operations are subject to hazards inherent in chemical manufacturing and refining and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes. these potential hazards include: pipeline leaks and ruptures; explosions; fires; severe weather and natural disasters; mechanical failure; unscheduled downtimes; supplier disruptions; labor shortages or other labor difficulties; transportation interruptions; remediation complications; increased restrictions on, or the unavailability of, water for use at our manufacturing sites or for the transport of our products or raw materials; chemical and oil spills; discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases; shipment of incorrect or off-specification product to customers; storage tank leaks; other environmental risks; and terrorist acts. some of these hazards may cause severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment or personal injury and loss of life and may result in suspension of operations or the shutdown of affected facilities. large capital projects can take many years to complete, and market conditions could deteriorate significantly between the project approval date and the project startup date, negatively impacting project returns. if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs and in a timely manner, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs involving engineering, procurement and construction of facilities could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve forecasted internal rates of return and operating results. delays in making required changes or upgrades to our facilities could subject us to fines or penalties as well 23 table of contents as affect our ability to contract with our customers and supply certain products we produce. such delays or cost increases may arise as a result of unpredictable factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: denial of or delay in receiving requisite regulatory approvals and/or permits; unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor; disruptions in transportation of components or construction materials; adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires or spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors or suppliers; shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages; and nonperformance by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors or subcontractors. any one or more of these factors could have a significant impact on our ongoing capital projects. if we were unable to make up the delays associated with such factors or to recover the related costs, or if market conditions change, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. increased it security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to our systems, networks, products, facilities and services. increased global information security threats and more sophisticated, targeted computer crime pose a risk to the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data, operations and infrastructure. while we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including security measures, employee training, comprehensive monitoring of our networks and systems, and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our employees, systems, networks, products, facilities and services remain potentially vulnerable to sophisticated espionage or cyber-assault. depending on their nature and scope, such threats could potentially lead to the compromise of confidential information, improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitiveness and results of operations. we operate internationally and are subject to exchange rate fluctuations, exchange controls, political risks and other risks relating to international operations. we operate internationally and are subject to the risks of doing business on a global level. these risks include fluctuations in currency exchange rates, economic instability and disruptions, restrictions on the transfer of funds and the imposition of trade restrictions or duties and tariffs, and increasingly complex regulations concerning privacy and data security. additional risks from our multinational business include transportation delays and interruptions, war, terrorist activities, epidemics, pandemics, political instability, import and export controls, sanctions, changes in governmental policies, labor unrest and current and changing regulatory environments. we generate revenues from export sales and operations that may be denominated in currencies other than the relevant functional currency. exchange rates between these currencies and functional currencies in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may do so in the future. it is possible that fluctuations in exchange rates will result in reduced operating results. additionally, we operate with the objective of having our worldwide cash available in the locations where it is needed, including the united kingdom for our parent company's significant cash obligations as a result of dividend and interest payments. it is possible that we may not always be able to provide cash to other jurisdictions when needed or that such transfers of cash could be subject to additional taxes, including withholding taxes. our operating results could be negatively affected by the laws, rules and regulations, as well as political environments, in the jurisdictions in which we operate. there could be reduced demand for our products, decreases in the prices at which we can sell our products and disruptions of production or other operations. trade protection measures such as quotas, duties, tariffs, safeguard measures or anti-dumping duties imposed in the countries in which we operate could negatively impact our business. additionally, there may be substantial capital and other 24 table of contents costs to comply with regulations and/or increased security costs or insurance premiums, any of which could reduce our operating results. we obtain a portion of our principal raw materials from international sources that are subject to these same risks. our compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations to which we may be subject could be challenged. furthermore, these laws may be modified, the result of which may be to prevent or limit subsidiaries from transferring cash to us. furthermore, we are subject to certain existing, and may be subject to possible future, laws that limit or may limit our activities while some of our competitors may not be subject to such laws, which may adversely affect our competitiveness. changes in tax laws and regulations could affect our tax rate and our results of operations. we are a tax resident in the united kingdom and are subject to the united kingdom corporate income tax system. lyondellbasell industries n.v. has little or no taxable income of its own because, as a holding company, it does not conduct any operations. through our subsidiaries, we have substantial operations world-wide. taxes are primarily paid on the earnings generated in various jurisdictions, including the u.s., the netherlands, germany, france and italy. we closely monitor tax law changes and the potential impact to our results of operations. there continues to be increased attention to the tax practices of multinational companies, including certain provisions of h.r.1, also known as the u.s. tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ), the european union's state aid investigations, proposals by the organization for economic cooperation and development with respect to base erosion and profit shifting, and european union tax directives and their implementation. management does not believe that recent changes in income tax laws will have a material impact on our business, financial condition, or results of operations, although new or proposed changes to tax laws could affect our tax liabilities in the future. many of our businesses depend on our intellectual property. our future success will depend in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, and our inability to do so could reduce our ability to maintain our competitiveness and margins. we have a significant worldwide patent portfolio of issued and pending patents. these patents and patent applications, together with proprietary technical know-how, are significant to our competitive position, particularly with regard to po, intermediate chemicals, polyolefins, licensing and catalysts. we rely on the patent, copyright and trade secret laws of the countries in which we operate to protect our investment in research and development, manufacturing and marketing. we operate plants, sell catalysts and products, participate in joint ventures, and license our process technology in many foreign jurisdictions, including those having heightened risks for intellectual property. in some of these instances, we must disclose at least a portion of our technology to third parties or regulatory bodies. in these cases, we rely primarily on contracts and trade secret laws to protect the associated trade secrets. however, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without authorization. proceedings to protect these rights could be costly, and we may not prevail. the failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our processes, apparatuses, technology, trade secrets or proprietary know-how could result in significantly lower revenues, reduced profit margins and cash flows and/or loss of market share. we also may be subject to claims that our technology, patents or other intellectual property infringes on a third party's intellectual property rights. unfavorable resolution of these claims could result in restrictions on our ability to deliver the related service or in a settlement that could be material to us. shared control or lack of control of joint ventures may delay decisions or actions regarding our joint ventures. a portion of our operations are conducted through joint ventures, where control may be exercised by or shared with unaffiliated third parties. we cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners, including any nonperformance, 25 table of contents default or bankruptcy of joint venture partners. the joint ventures that we do not control may also lack financial reporting systems to provide adequate and timely information for our reporting purposes. our joint venture partners may have different interests or goals than we do and may take actions contrary to our requests, policies or objectives. differences in views among the joint venture participants also may result in delayed decisions or in failures to agree on major matters, potentially adversely affecting the business and operations of the joint ventures and in turn our business and operations. we may develop a dispute with any of our partners over decisions affecting the venture that may result in litigation, arbitration or some other form of dispute resolution. if a joint venture participant acts contrary to our interest, it could harm our brand, business, results of operations and financial condition. we cannot predict with certainty the extent of future costs under environmental, health and safety and other laws and regulations, and cannot guarantee they will not be material. we may face liability arising out of the normal course of business, including alleged personal injury or property damage due to exposure to chemicals or other hazardous substances at our current or former facilities or chemicals that we manufacture, handle or own. in addition, because our products are components of a variety of other end-use products, we, along with other members of the chemical industry, are subject to potential claims related to those end-use products. any substantial increase in the success of these types of claims could negatively affect our operating results. we are subject to extensive national, regional, state and local environmental laws, regulations, directives, rules and ordinances concerning: emissions to the air; discharges onto land or surface waters or into groundwater; and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials. many of these laws and regulations provide for substantial fines and potential criminal sanctions for violations. some of these laws and regulations are subject to varying and conflicting interpretations. in addition, some of these laws and regulations require us to meet specific financial responsibility requirements. any substantial liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. although we have compliance programs and other processes intended to ensure compliance with all such regulations, we are subject to the risk that our compliance with such regulations could be challenged. non-compliance with certain of these regulations could result in the incurrence of additional costs, penalties or assessments that could be material. our industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and existing, or future regulations may restrict our operations, increase our costs of operations or require us to make additional capital expenditures. compliance with regulatory requirements will result in higher operating costs, such as regulatory requirements relating to emissions, the security of our facilities, and the transportation, export or registration of our products. we generally expect that regulatory controls worldwide will become increasingly more demanding, but cannot accurately predict future developments. increasingly strict environmental laws and inspection and enforcement policies, could affect the handling, manufacture, use, emission or disposal of products, other materials or hazardous and non-hazardous waste. stricter environmental, safety and health laws, regulations and enforcement policies could result in increased operating costs or capital expenditures to comply with such laws and regulations. additionally, we are required to have permits for our businesses and are subject to licensing regulations. these permits and licenses are subject to renewal, 26 table of contents modification and in some circumstances, revocation. further, the permits and licenses are often difficult, time consuming and costly to obtain and could contain conditions that limit our operations. we may incur substantial costs to comply with climate change legislation and related regulatory initiatives. there has been a broad range of proposed or promulgated international, national and state laws focusing on greenhouse gas ( ghg ) reduction. these proposed or promulgated laws apply or could apply in countries where we have interests or may have interests in the future. laws and regulations in this field continue to evolve and, while they are likely to be increasingly widespread and stringent, at this stage it is not possible to accurately estimate either a timetable for implementation or our future compliance costs relating to implementation. under the 2015 paris agreement, parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change agreed to undertake ambitious efforts to reduce ghg emissions and strengthen adaptation to the effects of climate change. while the u.s. notified the united nations in august 2017 that it will be withdrawing from the agreement, other regions in which we operate, including in particular the european union, are preparing national legislation and protection plans to implement their emission reduction commitments under the agreement. furthermore, the european union is considering accelerating its own commitments and achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. these actions could result in increased cost of purchased energy and increased costs of compliance for impacted locations. within the framework of the eu emissions trading scheme ( ets ), we were allocated certain allowances of carbon dioxide for the affected plants of our european sites for the period from 2008 to 2012 ( ets ii period ). the ets ii period did not bring additional cost to us as the allowance allocation was sufficient to cover the actual emissions of the affected plants. we were able to build an allowance surplus during the ets ii period which was banked to the scheme for the period from 2013 to 2020 ( ets iii period ). we have incurred additional costs for the ets iii period, despite the allowance surplus accrued over the ets ii period, as allowance allocations were reduced for the ets iii period and more of our plants are affected by the scheme. we expect to incur additional costs in relation to future carbon or ghg emission trading schemes. in the u.s., the epa has promulgated federal ghg regulations under the clean air act affecting certain sources. the epa has issued mandatory ghg reporting requirements, requirements to obtain ghg permits for certain industrial plants and ghg performance standards for some facilities. although the epa recently proposed to repeal and replace certain ghg requirements, additional ghg regulation may be forthcoming at the u.s. federal or state level that could result in the creation of additional costs in the form of taxes or required acquisition or trading of emission allowances. compliance with these or other changes in laws, regulations and obligations that create a ghg emissions trading scheme or ghg reduction policies generally could significantly increase our costs or reduce demand for products we produce. additionally, compliance with these regulations may result in increased permitting necessary for the operation of our business or for any of our growth plans. difficulties in obtaining such permits could have an adverse effect on our future growth. therefore, any future potential regulations and legislation could result in increased compliance costs, additional operating restrictions or delays in implementing growth projects or other capital investments, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in addition, climate changes, such as drought conditions or increased frequency and severity of hurricanes and floods, could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations . we may be required to record material charges against our earnings due to any number of events that could cause impairments to our assets. we may be required to reduce production or idle facilities for extended periods of time or exit certain businesses as a result of the cyclical nature of our industry. specifically, oversupplies of or lack of demand for particular products or high raw material prices may cause us to reduce production. we may choose to reduce production at certain facilities because we have off-take arrangements at other facilities, which make any reductions or idling unavailable at those facilities. any decision to permanently close facilities or exit a business likely would result in impairment and other charges to earnings. 27 table of contents temporary outages at our facilities can last for several quarters and sometimes longer. these outages could cause us to incur significant costs, including the expenses of maintaining and restarting these facilities. in addition, even though we may reduce production at facilities, we may be required to continue to purchase or pay for utilities or raw materials under take-or-pay supply agreements. increased regulation or deselection of plastic could lead to a decrease in demand growth for some of our products. in 2018, the european union adopted a strategy for plastics in a circular economy that aims to increase significantly the recycling of plastic and target the plastic products most often found on beaches and in seas. in addition, local and other governments have increasingly proposed or implemented bans on plastic items such as disposable bags and straws, as well as other food packaging. additionally, plastics have recently faced increased public backlash and scrutiny. increased regulation of, or prohibition on, the use of plastics could increase the costs incurred by our customers to use such products or otherwise limit the use of these products, and could lead to a decrease in demand for pe, pp, and other products we make. such a decrease in demand could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. our business is capital intensive and we rely on cash generated from operations and external financing to fund our growth and ongoing capital needs. limitations on access to external financing could adversely affect our operating results. we require significant capital to operate our current business and fund our growth strategy. moreover, interest payments, dividends and the expansion of our business or other business opportunities may require significant amounts of capital. we believe that our cash from operations currently will be sufficient to meet these needs. however, if we need external financing, our access to credit markets and pricing of our capital is dependent upon maintaining sufficient credit ratings from credit rating agencies and the state of the capital markets generally. there can be no assurances that we would be able to incur indebtedness on terms we deem acceptable, and it is possible that the cost of any financings could increase significantly, thereby increasing our expenses and decreasing our net income. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or raise adequate external financing, including as a result of significant disruptions in the global credit markets, we could be forced to restrict our operations and growth opportunities, which could adversely affect our operating results. we may use our $2.5 billion revolving credit facility, which backs our commercial paper program, to meet our cash needs, to the extent available. as of december 31, 2019 , we had no borrowings or letters of credit outstanding under the facility and $262 million , net of discount, outstanding under our commercial paper program, leaving an unused and available credit capacity of $2,229 million . we may also meet our cash needs by selling receivables under our $900 million u.s. receivables facility. as of december 31, 2019, subject to a borrowing base of eligible receivables, we had availability of $690 million under this facility. in the event of a default under our credit facility or any of our senior notes, we could be required to immediately repay all outstanding borrowings and make cash deposits as collateral for all obligations the facility supports, which we may not be able to do. any default under any of our credit arrangements could cause a default under many of our other credit agreements and debt instruments. without waivers from lenders party to those agreements, any such default could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to operate. legislation and regulatory initiatives could lead to a decrease in demand for our products. new or revised governmental regulations and independent studies relating to the effect of our products on health, safety and the environment may affect demand for our products and the cost of producing our products. initiatives by governments and private interest groups will potentially require increased toxicological testing and risk assessments of a wide variety of chemicals, including chemicals used or produced by us. for example, in the united states, the national toxicology program ( ntp ) is a federal interagency program that seeks to identify and select for study chemicals and other substances to evaluate potential human health hazards. in the european union, the regulation on registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemicals ( reach ) is regulation 28 table of contents designed to identify the intrinsic properties of chemical substances, assess hazards and risks of the substances, and identify and implement the risk management measures to protect humans and the environment. assessments under ntp, reach or similar programs or regulations in other jurisdictions may result in heightened concerns about the chemicals we use or produce and may result in additional requirements being placed on the production, handling, labeling or use of those chemicals. such concerns and additional requirements could also increase the cost incurred by our customers to use our chemical products and otherwise limit the use of these products, which could lead to a decrease in demand for these products. such a decrease in demand could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. adverse results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect us. we are subject to and may in the future be subject to a variety of legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business. results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. irrespective of its merits, litigation may be both lengthy and disruptive to our operations and may cause significant expenditure and diversion of management attention. we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations should we fail to prevail in certain matters. significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions relating to pension costs may adversely affect the valuation of pension obligations, the funded status of pension plans, and our pension cost. our pension cost is materially affected by the discount rates used to measure pension obligations, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations at the measurement date and the expected long-term rates of return on plan assets. significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets may result in corresponding increases and decreases in the value of plan assets, particularly equity securities, or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. any changes in key actuarial assumptions, such as the discount rate or mortality rate, would impact the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported funded status of our pension plans as well as the net periodic pension cost in the following fiscal years. nearly all of our current pension plans have projected benefit obligations that exceed the fair value of the plan assets. as of december 31, 2019, the aggregate deficit was $1,287 million . any declines in the fair values of the pension plans' assets could require additional payments by us in order to maintain specified funding levels. our pension plans are subject to legislative and regulatory requirements of applicable jurisdictions, which could include, under certain circumstances, local governmental authority to terminate the plan. integration of acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and stock price. we have made and may continue to make acquisitions in order to enhance our business. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including meeting our standards for compliance, problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs and liabilities, diversion of management's attention from our core businesses, and potential loss of key employees. there can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate successfully any businesses, products, technologies, or personnel that we might acquire. the integration of businesses that we may acquire is likely to be a complex, time-consuming, and expensive process and we may not realize the anticipated revenues, synergies, or other benefits associated with our acquisitions if we do not manage and operate the acquired business up to our expectations. if we are unable to efficiently operate as a combined organization utilizing common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls, and human resources practices, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. 29 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 57 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for discussion of lyondellbasell industries n.v.'s management of commodity price risk, foreign currency exposure and interest rate risk through its use of derivative instruments and hedging activities. commodity price risk our products and raw materials are subject to changes in market price as supply and demand fundamentals change. natural gas, crude oil and refined products, along with feedstocks for ethylene and propylene production, constitute the main commodity exposures. we try to protect against such instability through various business strategies including provisions in sales contracts which allows us to pass on higher raw material costs to our customers through timely price increases and through the use of commodity swap and futures contracts. we use value at risk ( var ), stress testing and scenario analysis for risk measurement and control purposes. var estimates the maximum potential loss in fair market values for our commodity derivative instruments, given a certain move in prices over a certain period of time, using specified confidence levels. utilizing a monte carlo simulation with a 95 percent confidence level over a three-day time horizon, the effect on our pre-tax income and cash flows for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018 would be immaterial. foreign exchange risk we manufacture and market our products in many countries throughout the world and, as a result, are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. a significant portion of our reporting entities use the euro as their functional currency. our reporting currency is the u.s. dollar. the translation gains or losses that result from the process of translating the euro denominated financial statements to u.s. dollars are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income until such time as those entities may be liquidated or sold. changes in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro can therefore have a significant impact on comprehensive income. we have entered into hedging arrangements designated as net investment hedges to reduce the volatility in shareholders' equity resulting from foreign currency fluctuation associated with our net investments in foreign operations. the table below illustrates the impact on other comprehensive loss of a 10% fluctuation in the foreign currency rate associated with each net investment hedge and the euribor and libor rates associated with basis swaps as of december 31, 2019 and 2018 : 2019 and 2018 10% variance on foreign currency rate 2019 2018 net investment hedges notional amount impact on other comprehensive loss basis swaps 617 million euro/u.s. dollar rate $70 million $69 million euribor and libor rates less than $1 million less than $1 million guaranteed euro notes due 2022 750 million euro/u.s. dollar rate $84 million $86 million some of our operations enter into transactions that are not denominated in their functional currency. this results in exposure to foreign currency risk for financial instruments, including, but not limited to, third party and intercompany receivables and payables and intercompany loans. we maintain risk management control practices to monitor the foreign currency risk attributable to our inter-company and third party outstanding foreign currency balances. these practices involve the centralization of our 57 table of contents exposure to underlying currencies that are not subject to central bank and/or country specific restrictions. by centralizing most of our foreign currency exposure into one subsidiary, we are able to take advantage of any natural offsets thereby reducing the overall impact of changes in foreign currency rates on our earnings. at december 31, 2019 and 2018 , a 10% fluctuation compared to the u.s. dollar in the underlying currencies that have no central bank or other currency restrictions related to non-hedged monetary net assets would have had a resulting additional impact to earnings of approximately $2 million and $3 million, respectively. our policy is to maintain a balanced position in foreign currencies to minimize exchange gains and losses arising from changes in exchange rates. to minimize the effects of our net currency exchange exposures, we enter into foreign currency spot and forward contracts and, in some cases, cross-currency swaps. we also engage in short-term foreign exchange swaps in order to roll certain hedge positions and to make funds available for intercompany financing. our net position in foreign currencies is monitored daily. we entered into $2,300 million of non-cancellable cross-currency swaps, which we designated as foreign currency cash flow hedges, to reduce the variability in the functional currency equivalent cash flows of certain foreign currency denominated intercompany notes. at december 31, 2019 , these foreign currency contracts have maturity dates ranging from 2021 to 2027 and their fair value was a net asset of $205 million. a 10% fluctuation compared to the u.s. dollar would have had a resulting additional impact to other comprehensive loss of approximately $238 million and $243 million in 2019 and 2018 , respectively. other income, net, in the consolidated statements of income reflected net exchange rate foreign currency gains of $9 million and $24 million in 2019 and 2018 , respectively, and foreign currency losses of $1 million in 2017 . for forward contracts, including swap transactions, that economically hedge recognized monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies, no hedge accounting is applied. changes in the fair value of foreign currency forward and swap contracts are reported in the consolidated statements of income and offset the currency exchange results recognized on the assets and liabilities. at december 31, 2019 , these foreign currency contracts, which will mature between january 2020 and september 2020, inclusively, had an aggregated notional amount of $780 million and the fair value was a net asset of $4 million. a 10% fluctuation compared to the u.s. dollar would have had a resulting additional impact to earnings of approximately $31 million and $96 million in 2019 and 2018 , respectively. interest rate risk interest rate risk management is viewed as a trade-off between cost and risk. the cost of interest is generally lower for short-term debt and higher for long-term debt, and lower for floating rate debt and higher for fixed rate debt. however, the risk associated with interest rates is inversely related to the cost, with short-term debt carrying a higher refinancing risk and floating rate debt having higher interest rate volatility. our interest rate risk management strategy attempts to optimize this cost/risk/reward trade-off. we are exposed to interest rate risk with respect to our fixed and variable rate debt. fluctuations in interest rates impact the fair value of fixed-rate debt as well as pre-tax earnings stemming from interest expense on variable-rate debt. to minimize earnings at risk as part of our interest rate risk management strategy, we target to maintain floating rate debt, through the use of interest rate swaps, equal to our cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and tri-party repurchase agreements, as those assets are invested in floating rate instruments. pre-issuance interest rate a pre-issuance interest rate strategy is utilized to mitigate the risk that benchmark interest rates (i.e. u.s. treasury, mid-swaps, etc.) will increase between the time a decision has been made to issue debt and when the actual debt offering is issued. at december 31, 2019 , the total notional amount of our interest rate contracts designated as cash flow hedges, which have maturity dates ranging from 2020 to 2021, was $1,500 million and the fair value was a net liability of $225 million. we estimate that a 10% change in market interest rates as of december 31, 2019 and 2018 , would change the fair value of our forward-starting interest rate swaps outstanding and would have had a resulting impact on other comprehensive loss of approximately $66 million and $71 million, respectively. 58 table of contents fixed-rate debt we enter into interest rate swaps as part of our interest rate risk management strategy. at december 31, 2019 , the total notional amount of interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges, which have maturity dates ranging from 2021 to 2027, was $2,140 million and their fair value was a net asset of $41 million. at december 31, 2019 , after giving consideration to the $2,140 million of fixed-rate debt that we have effectively converted to floating through these u.s. dollar fixed-for-floating interest rate swaps, approximately 64% of our debt portfolio, on a gross basis, incurred interest at a fixed-rate and the remaining 36% of the portfolio incurred interest at a variable-rate. we estimate that a 10% change in market interest rates as of december 31, 2019 and 2018, would change the fair value of our interest rate swaps outstanding and would have had a resulting impact on our pre-tax income of approximately $15 million and $26 million, respectively. variable-rate debt our variable rate debt consists of our $2,500 million senior revolving credit facility, our $900 million u.s. receivables facility and our commercial paper program. at december 31, 2019 , there were no outstanding borrowings under our senior revolving credit facility nor our u.s. receivables facility. our commercial paper program had outstanding borrowings of $262 million at december 31, 2019 . based on our average variable-rate debt outstanding per year, we estimate that a 10% change in interest rates would have had a $1 million and $2 million impact on earnings in 2019 and 2018 , respectively. 59 table of contents