risk factors risk factors our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. the risks discussed below are those that we believe currently are the most significant, although additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem less significant also may impact our business, financial condition or results of operations, perhaps materially. decline in demand for our aircraft products, cancellation of orders and delays in aircraft delivery schedules may continue to adversely affect our financial results. the current weak economic environment has resulted in significantly reduced demand for our aircraft and a tightening of credit availability for potential purchasers of our aircraft, as well as a substantial number of cancellations of orders and customer requests for delayed delivery of ordered aircraft. weak economic conditions may continue to soften demand for new and used business jets and helicopters and may continue to adversely impact the pricing of new aircraft and the valuation of used aircraft. difficult conditions in the financial markets may continue to adversely impact our customers ability to fund or finance purchases of our aircraft. weakness in the economy may continue to result in fewer hours flown on existing aircraft and, consequently, lower demand for spare parts and maintenance. we generally make sales of our commercial aircraft under purchase orders that are subject to cancellation, modification or rescheduling. aircraft customers, including sellers of fractional share interests, may continue to respond to weak economic conditions by canceling orders and/or delaying delivery of orders. in addition, both u.s. and foreign governments and government agencies regulate the aviation industry; they may impose new regulations with additional aircraft security or other requirements or restrictions, including, for example, environmental-related restrictions and/or fees, that may adversely impact demand for business jets and/or helicopters. moreover, a prolonged downturn in our markets may impact our decision to invest in the development of new products or improvements to existing products, which could adversely impact our future competitiveness and profitability. reduced demand for new and used aircraft, spare parts and maintenance, continued cancellations of orders and/or delivery delays could significantly reduce our revenues, profitability and cash flows. we may not be able to continue to execute the liquidation of our finance segment non-captive commercial finance business at a favorable pace and level of recovery. in the fourth quarter of 2008, we announced a plan to exit the non-captive portion of the commercial finance business of our finance segment, while retaining the captive portion of the business that supports customer purchases of products that we manufacture. the exit plan is being effected through a combination of orderly liquidation and selected sales. we cannot be certain that we will be able to continue to accomplish the orderly liquidation of our portfolio on a timely or successful basis or in a manner that will generate cash sufficient to service our finance segment debt. we may encounter delays and difficulties in effecting the continued orderly liquidation of our various receivable portfolios as a result of many factors, including the inability of our customers to find alternative financing, which could expose us to increased credit losses. we may have greater difficulty in selling the remaining receivables that have been designated for sale or transfer, assets that have been acquired upon foreclosure of receivables and/or other non-operating assets at the pricing that we anticipate or in the time frame that we anticipate. we may be required to make additional mark-to-market or other adjustments against assets that we intend to sell or to take additional reserves against assets that we intend to retain. we may change our current strategy based on either our performance and liquidity position or changes in external factors affecting the value and/or marketability of our assets, which could result in changes in the classification of assets we intend to hold for investment and additional mark-to-market adjustments. we may incur higher costs than anticipated as a result of this exit plan or be subject to claims made by third parties, and the exit plan may result in increased credit losses. we expect that our portfolio quality will continue to deteriorate as we proceed through the liquidation and the mix of assets changes and that our cash conversion ratio on liquidation will decrease; this deterioration could be more severe and the cash conversion ratio lower than we anticipate, resulting in substantial credit losses. significant delay or difficulty in executing the continued liquidation and/or substantial losses could result in the failure of our portfolio to generate the cash necessary to service our finance segment indebtedness, resulting in continuing or increased adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. difficult conditions in the financial markets have adversely affected the business and results of operations of our finance segment, and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. the financial performance of our finance segment depends on the quality of loans, leases and other credit products in its finance asset portfolios. portfolio quality may be adversely affected by several factors, including finance receivable underwriting procedures, collateral quality, or geographic or industry concentrations, as well as the ability of our customers to obtain alternative financing as our finance segment exits certain lines of business. financial market conditions over the previous 18 months have resulted in significant writedowns of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. these writedowns, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional 7 table of contents capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. this market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies and defaults, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity. valuations of the types of collateral securing our captive finance portfolio, particularly valuations of used aircraft, have decreased significantly and may continue to decrease if weak economic conditions continue. declining collateral values could result in greater delinquencies and foreclosures as customers elect to discontinue payments on loan balances that exceed asset values. our losses may increase if our collateral cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of our finance receivable portfolio. in particular, declining collateral values in the portion of our captive finance portfolio secured by non-textron manufactured aircraft may result in increased losses as we may have greater difficulty liquidating these assets. further deterioration of our finance segment ability to successfully collect its finance receivable portfolio and to resolve problem accounts may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition. if these negative market conditions persist or worsen, we could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. if our finance segment estimates or assumptions used in determining the fair value of certain of its assets and its allowance for losses on finance receivables prove to be incorrect, its cash flow, profitability, financial condition and business prospects could be materially adversely affected. our finance segment uses estimates and various assumptions in determining the fair value of certain of its assets, including finance receivables held-for-sale that do not have active, quoted market prices. our finance segment also uses estimates and assumptions in determining its allowance for losses on finance receivables and in determining the residual values of leased equipment and the value of repossessed assets and properties. these estimates and assumptions are inherently difficult to make, and our finance segment actual experience may differ materially from these estimates and assumptions. a material difference between our finance segment estimates and assumptions and its actual experience may adversely affect our finance segment cash flow, profitability and financial condition. payments required under our support agreement with textron financial corporation could restrict our use of capital. under the terms of our support agreement with textron financial corporation, during 2009, we made $270 million in cash payments to textron financial corporation to maintain both the fixed charge coverage ratio required by the support agreement and the leverage ratio required by textron financial corporation credit facility. these cash payments have been recorded as capital contributions to textron financial corporation. we will likely be required to make additional capital contributions to textron financial corporation in the future in order to maintain these ratios. while capital contributions to textron financial corporation may not increase the aggregate amount of outstanding consolidated indebtedness of textron and textron financial corporation, such contributions could restrict our allocation of available capital for other purposes. in addition, recently, from time to time, textron financial corporation has borrowed from us to meet its liquidity needs, and it may require further borrowings from us for its liquidity needs in the future, depending upon market conditions. textron financial corporation need for borrowings from us could restrict our use of funds for other purposes. failure to maintain investment grade credit ratings acceptable to investors may increase the cost of our funding and may adversely affect our access to the capital markets. the major rating agencies regularly evaluate us, including textron financial corporation. late in 2008 and during 2009, our long- and short-term credit ratings were subject to several downgrades resulting in the ratings disclosed on page 29 in the credit ratings section. failure to maintain investment grade credit ratings that are acceptable to investors may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain financing, as well as our access to the capital markets. we may need to obtain financing in order to meet our debt obligations in the future; such financing may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all. we may periodically need to obtain financing in order to meet our debt obligations as they come due. this may include refinancing a portion of our credit facilities prior to april 2012 when the approximate $3.0 billion in aggregate borrowings thereunder becomes due. although we currently believe we have access to the capital markets, due to the unstable economy and the volatile credit market environment, or other factors, we may not be able to refinance our credit facilities or maturing debt at the time that such financing is necessary at terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. if we cannot obtain adequate sources of credit on favorable terms, or at all, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. our ability to fund our captive financing activities at economically competitive levels depends on our ability to borrow and the cost of borrowing in the credit markets. our finance segment ability to continue to offer customer financing for the products that we manufacture, and the long-term viability and 8 table of contents profitability of the captive finance business, is largely dependent on our ability to obtain funding at a reasonable cost. this ability and cost, in turn, are dependent on our credit ratings and are subject to credit market volatility. if we are unable to continue to offer customer financing or if we are unable to offer competitive customer financing, it could negatively impact our manufacturing group ability to generate sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the soundness of our suppliers, customers and business partners could affect our business and results of operations. all of our segments are exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness of our key suppliers, customers and business partners, including automobile manufacturers and other industrial customers, customers of our bell and cessna products, home improvement retailers and original equipment manufacturers, many of which have been and may continue to be adversely affected by the volatile conditions in the financial markets. these conditions could result in financial instability or other adverse effects at any of our suppliers, customers or business partners. the consequences of such adverse effects could include the interruption of production at the facilities of our customers or suppliers, the reduction, delay or cancellation of customer orders, delays in or the inability of customers to obtain financing to purchase our products and bankruptcy of customers or other creditors. any of these events may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition. we have customer concentration with the u.s. government. during 2009, we derived approximately 31% of our revenues from sales to a variety of u.s. government entities. our u.s. government revenues have continued to grow both organically and through acquisitions. our ability to compete successfully for and retain u.s. government business is highly dependent on technical excellence, management proficiency, strategic alliances, cost-effective performance, and the ability to recruit and retain key personnel. our revenues from the u.s. government largely result from contracts awarded to us under various u.s. government defense-related programs. the funding of these programs is subject to congressional appropriation decisions. although multiple-year contracts may be planned in connection with major procurements, congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may continue for several years. consequently, programs often are only partially funded initially, and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. the reduction or termination of funding, or changes in the timing of funding, for a u.s. government program in which we provide products or services would result in a reduction or loss of anticipated future revenues attributable to that program and could have a negative impact on our results of operations. while the overall level of u.s. defense spending has increased in recent years for numerous reasons, including increases in funding of operations in iraq and afghanistan and the u.s. department of defense military transformation initiatives, we can give no assurance that such spending will continue to grow or not be reduced. significant changes in national and international priorities for defense spending could impact the funding, or the timing of funding, of our programs, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. u.s. government contracts may be terminated at any time and may contain other unfavorable provisions. the u.s. government typically can terminate or modify any of its contracts with us either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. a termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. if any of our contracts are terminated by the u.s. government, our backlog would be reduced, in accordance with contract terms, by the expected value of the remaining work under such contracts. in addition, on those contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our products and services as a subcontractor. in any such event, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations. we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of u.s. government contracts. these laws and regulations, among other things, require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiation, define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based u.s. government contracts, and restrict the use and dissemination of classified information and the exportation of certain products and technical data. our u.s. government contracts contain provisions that allow the u.s. government to unilaterally suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations, reduce the value of existing contracts, issue modifications to a contract, and control and potentially prohibit the export of our products, services and associated materials. in addition, we are subject to audits by the defense contract audit agency to assure our compliance with the laws and regulations applicable to u.s. government contractors. a violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties or the termination of our contracts and, under certain circumstances, suspension or debarment from future contracts for a period of time. also, changes in procurement policies, budget considerations, unexpected u.s. developments, such as terrorist attacks, or similar political developments or events abroad that may change the u.s. federal government national security defense posture may affect sales to government entities. these laws and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. 9 table of contents cost overruns on u.s. government contracts could subject us to losses or adversely affect our future business. contract and program accounting require judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating sales and profit rates and are recorded when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance. estimates of award fees also are used in estimating sales and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. because of the significance of these estimates, it is likely that different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future financial results of operations. under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur, and, consequently, any costs in excess of the fixed price are absorbed by us. under time and materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. under cost-reimbursement contracts, which are subject to a contract-ceiling amount, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based. however, if our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs. under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs we incur in performing under the contract, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. cost overruns also may adversely affect our ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards. developing new products and technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties. to continue to grow our revenues and segment profit, we must successfully develop new products and technologies or modify our existing products and technologies for our current and future markets. our future performance depends, in part, on our ability to identify emerging technological trends and customer requirements in our current and future markets and to develop and maintain competitive products and services. delays or cost overruns in the development and acceptance of new products, or certification of new aircraft products and other products, could affect our financial results of operations. these delays could be caused by unanticipated technological hurdles, production changes to meet customer demands, unanticipated difficulties in obtaining required regulatory certifications of new aircraft products, coordination with joint venture partners or failure on the part of our suppliers to deliver components as agreed. we also could be adversely affected if the general efficacy of our research and development investments to develop products is less than expected or if we do not adequately protect the intellectual property developed through our research and development efforts. furthermore, because of the lengthy research and development cycle involved in bringing certain of our products to market, we cannot predict the economic conditions that will exist when any new product is complete. a reduction in capital spending in the aerospace or defense industries could have a significant effect on the demand for new products and technologies under development, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, there can be no assurance that the market for our offerings will develop or continue to expand as we currently anticipate. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing technologies which gain market acceptance in advance of our products. our failure in our new product development efforts or the failure of our products or services to achieve market acceptance more rapidly than our competitors could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our joint venture, teaming and other arrangements involve risks and uncertainties. we have entered, and expect to continue to enter, into joint venture, teaming and other arrangements, and these activities involve risks and uncertainties, including the risk of the joint venture or related business partner failing to satisfy its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments; the challenges in achieving strategic objectives and expected benefits of the business arrangement; the risk of conflicts arising between us and our partners and the difficulty of managing and resolving such conflicts; and the difficulty of managing or otherwise monitoring such business arrangements. we may make acquisitions and dispositions that increase the risks of our business. we may enter into acquisitions or dispositions in the future in an effort to enhance shareholder value. acquisitions or dispositions involve a certain amount of risks and uncertainties that could result in our not achieving expected benefits. with respect to acquisitions, such risks include difficulties in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner; challenges in achieving expected strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits; the risk that the acquired businesses markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; the risk that we pay a purchase price that exceeds what the future results of operations would have merited; and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses. with respect to dispositions, the decision to dispose of a business or asset may result in a writedown of the related assets if the fair market value of the assets, less costs of disposal, is less than the book value. in addition, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies at 10 table of contents acceptable prices and terms and in a timely manner. we also may underestimate the costs of retained liabilities or indemnification obligations. in addition, unanticipated delays or difficulties in effecting acquisitions or dispositions may divert the attention of our management and resources from our existing operations. failure to perform by our subcontractors or suppliers could adversely affect our performance. we rely on other companies to provide raw materials, major components and subsystems for our products. subcontractors also perform services that we provide to our customers in certain circumstances. in addition, we outsource certain support functions, including certain global information technology infrastructure services to third-party service providers. we depend on these vendors, subcontractors and service providers to meet our contractual obligations to our customers and conduct our operations. our ability to meet our obligations to our customers may be adversely affected if suppliers do not provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services in compliance with customer requirements and in a timely and cost-effective manner. the risk of these adverse effects may be greater in circumstances where we rely on only one or two subcontractors or suppliers for a particular product or service. in particular, in the aircraft industry, most vendor parts are certified by the regulatory agencies as part of the overall type certificate for the aircraft being produced by the manufacturer. if a vendor does not or cannot supply its parts, then the manufacturer production line may be stopped until the manufacturer can design, manufacture and certify a similar part itself or identify and certify another similar vendor part, resulting in significant delays in the completion of aircraft. such events may adversely affect our financial results of operations or damage our reputation and relationships with our customers. likewise, any disruption of our information technology systems or other outsourced processes or functions could have a material adverse impact on our operations and our financial results. our operations could be adversely affected by interruptions in production that are beyond our control. our business and financial results may be affected by certain events that we cannot anticipate or that are beyond our control, such as natural disasters and national emergencies that could curtail production at our facilities and cause delayed deliveries and canceled orders. in addition, we purchase components and raw materials and information technology and other services from numerous suppliers, and, even if our facilities are not directly affected by such events, we could be affected by interruptions at such suppliers. such suppliers may be less likely than our own facilities to be able to quickly recover from such events and may be subject to additional risks such as financial problems that limit their ability to conduct their operations. our business could be adversely affected by strikes or work stoppages and other labor issues. approximately 5,900 of our u.s. employees, or 24% of our total u.s. employees, are unionized, and approximately 2,500 of our non-u.s. employees, or 37% of our total non-u.s. employees, are represented by organized councils. as a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, resulting in strain on our relationships with our customers and a loss of revenues. in addition, the presence of unions may limit our flexibility in responding to competitive pressures in the marketplace, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results of operations. in addition to our workforce, the workforces of many of our customers and suppliers are represented by labor unions. work stoppages or strikes at the plants of our key customers could result in delayed or canceled orders for our products. work stoppages and strikes at the plants of our key suppliers could disrupt our manufacturing processes. any of these results could adversely affect our financial results of operations. our international business is subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries. our international business exposes us to certain unique and potentially greater risks than our domestic business, and our exposure to such risks may increase if our international business continues to grow. our international business is subject to u.s. and local government regulations and procurement policies and practices, which may change from time to time, including regulations relating to import-export control, environmental, health and safety, investments, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings or cash settlement challenges, as well as to varying currency, geopolitical and economic risks. these international risks may be especially significant with respect to sales of aerospace and defense products. we also are exposed to risks associated with using foreign representatives and consultants for international sales and operations and teaming with international subcontractors and suppliers in connection with international programs. some international government customers require contractors to agree to specific in-country purchases, manufacturing agreements or financial support arrangements, known as offsets, as a condition for a contract award. the contracts generally extend over several years and may include penalties if we fail to meet the offset requirements, which could adversely impact our revenues, profitability and cash flows. additionally, we are facing increasing competition in our international markets from foreign and multinational firms that may have certain advantages, including, for example, cost advantages, over us; as a result, our ability to compete successfully in those markets may be adversely affected, which could negatively impact our revenues. 11 table of contents we are subject to legal proceedings and other claims. we are subject to legal proceedings and other claims arising out of the conduct of our business, including proceedings and claims relating to commercial and financial transactions; government contracts; lack of compliance with applicable laws and regulations; production partners; product liability; patent and trademark infringement; employment disputes; and environmental, safety and health matters. under federal government procurement regulations, certain claims brought by the u.s. government could result in our being suspended or debarred from u.s. government contracting for a period of time. on the basis of information presently available, we do not believe that existing proceedings and claims will have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. however, litigation is inherently unpredictable, and we could incur judgments or enter into settlements for current or future claims that could adversely affect our financial position or our results of operations in any particular period. if we fail to comply with the covenants contained in our various debt agreements, it may adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. our credit facility contains affirmative and negative covenants, including (i) limitations on creation of liens on assets of textron inc. or of its manufacturing subsidiaries; (ii) maintenance of existence and properties; and (iii) maintaining a maximum debt to capital ratio (as defined and excluding our finance segment) of 65%. the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes also contain covenants, including limitations on creation of liens on certain principal manufacturing facilities and shares of stock of subsidiaries that own such facilities and restrictions on sale and leaseback transactions with respect to such facilities. in addition, both the credit facility and the indentures provide that consolidations, mergers or sale of all or substantially all of our assets may only be effected if certain provisions are complied with. some of these covenants may limit our ability to engage in certain financing structures, create liens, sell assets or effect a consolidation or merger. our credit facility also contains a cross-default provision that would trigger an event of default thereunder if we fail to pay or otherwise have a continued default under other indebtedness of textron inc. or any of our subsidiaries, other than any of our subsidiaries that primarily are engaged in the business of a finance company, of over $100 million. similarly, the supplemental indenture governing our convertible notes contains a cross-default provision that would trigger an event of default thereunder if we fail to pay or otherwise have a continued default under other indebtedness of textron inc. or any of our subsidiaries, other than textron financial corporation or its subsidiaries, of over $100 million. therefore, cessna finance export corporation, a subsidiary of textron inc. that is the borrower under the ex-im bank facility entered into on july 14, 2009, would be included within the cross-default provision of the supplemental indenture for the convertible notes, although not within the similar provision in our credit facility. as a result, a failure to pay or a continued default under the ex-im bank facility, if the outstanding balance thereunder exceeded $100 million, could give rise to an event of default with respect to our convertible notes. in addition, a bankruptcy or monetary judgment in excess of $100 million against us or any of our subsidiaries that accounts for more than 5% of our consolidated revenues or our consolidated assets, including our finance subsidiaries, also would result in an event of default under our credit facility, and a bankruptcy against us or any of our non-finance significant subsidiaries (within the meaning of the securities exchange commission rules) also would result in an event of default under the indenture governing our convertible notes. our failure to comply with material provisions or covenants in the credit facility or the indentures, or the failure of certain of our subsidiaries to comply with their debt agreements, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. currency, raw material price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. in some cases, we purchase derivatives or enter into contracts to insulate our financial results of operations from these fluctuations. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates can have substantial adverse effects on our financial results of operations. we may be unable to effectively mitigate pricing pressures. in some markets, particularly where we deliver component products and services to original equipment manufacturers, we face ongoing customer demands for price reductions, which sometimes are contractually obligated. in some cases, we are able to offset these reductions through technological advances or by lowering our cost base through improved operating and supply chain efficiencies. however, if we are unable to effectively mitigate future pricing pressures, our financial results of operations could be adversely affected. the levels of our reserves are subject to many uncertainties and may not be adequate to cover writedowns or losses. in addition to reserves at our finance segment, we establish reserves in our manufacturing segments to cover uncollectible accounts receivable, excess or obsolete inventory, fair market value writedowns on used aircraft and golf cars, recall campaigns, environmental remediation, warranty costs and litigation. these reserves are subject to adjustment from time to time depending on actual experience and/or current market conditions and are subject to many uncertainties, including bankruptcy or other financial problems at key customers, as well as changing market conditions. 12 table of contents due to the nature of our business, we may be subject to liability claims arising from accidents involving our products, including claims for serious personal injuries or death caused by climatic factors or by pilot or driver error. in the case of litigation matters for which reserves have not been established because the loss is not deemed probable, it is reasonably possible that such matters could be decided against us and could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures in amounts that are not presently estimable. in addition, we cannot be certain that our reserves are adequate and that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover one or more substantial claims. furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain insurance coverage at acceptable levels and costs in the future. the increasing costs of certain employee and retiree benefits could adversely affect our results. our earnings and cash flow may be impacted by the amount of income or expense we expend or record for employee benefit plans. this is particularly true for our defined benefit pension plans, where the contributions to those plans are driven by, among other things, our assumptions of the rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate used for future payment obligations and the rates of future cost growth. if the actual investment return and rates prove materially different from our assumptions, this could adversely impact the amount of pension expense and require larger contributions to the plans. also, changing pension legislation and regulations could increase the cost associated with our defined benefit pension plans. in addition, medical costs are rising at a rate faster than the general inflation rate. continued medical cost inflation in excess of the general inflation rate increases the risk that we will not be able to mitigate the rising costs of medical benefits. increases to the costs of pension and medical benefits could have an adverse effect on our financial results of operations. unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in both the u.s. and various non-u.s. jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among these different jurisdictions. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes to unrecognized tax benefits or changes in tax laws, which could affect our profitability. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a tax authority could affect our profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risks our financial results are affected by changes in the u.s. and foreign interest rates. as part of managing this risk, we seek to achieve a prudent balance between floating- and fixed-rate exposures. we continually monitor our mix of floating- and fixed-rate exposures and adjust the mix, as necessary, sometimes by entering into interest rate exchange agreements, based on our evaluation of internal and external factors. the manufacturing group did not enter into any interest rate exchange agreements in 2009, and the difference between the rates received and the rates paid on interest exchange agreements did not have a material impact on interest expense in 2008 or 2007. our finance group limits its risk to changes in interest rates with its strategy of matching floating-rate assets with floating-rate liabilities. this strategy includes the use of interest rate exchange agreements. at january 2, 2010, floating-rate liabilities in excess of floating-rate assets were $0.6 billion, after considering interest rate exchange agreements and the treatment of $1.4 billion of floating-rate loans with index-rate floors as fixed-rate loans. these loans have index rates that are, on average, 219 basis points above the applicable index rate (predominately the prime rate). the finance group has benefited from interest rate floor agreements in the recent low rate environment; however, in a rising rate environment, this benefit will dissipate until the prime rate exceeds the floor rates embedded in these agreements. the net effect of interest rate exchange agreements designated as hedges of debt decreased interest expense for our finance group by $56 million in 2009 and by $25 million in 2008 and increased interest expense by $25 million in 2007. foreign exchange risks our financial results are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates and economic conditions in the foreign markets in which our products are manufactured and/or sold. the impact of foreign exchange rate changes for 2009 and 2008 from the prior year for each period is provided below. (in millions) 2009 2008 impact of foreign exchange rates increased (decreased): revenues $ (51 ) $ 95 segment profit (2 ) (2 ) for our manufacturing operations, we manage exposures to foreign currency assets and earnings primarily by funding certain foreign currency-denominated assets with liabilities in the same currency so that certain exposures are naturally offset. we primarily use borrowings denominated in euro and british pound sterling for these purposes. in managing our foreign currency transaction exposures, we also enter into foreign currency forward exchange and option contracts. these contracts generally are used to fix the local currency cost of purchased goods or services or selling prices denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. the notional amount of outstanding foreign exchange contracts and foreign currency options was approximately $1.0 billion at the end of 2009. quantitative risk measures in the normal course of business, we enter into financial instruments for purposes other than trading. to quantify the market risk inherent in our financial instruments, we utilize a sensitivity analysis. the financial instruments that are subject to market risk (interest rate risk, foreign exchange rate risk and equity price risk) include finance receivables (excluding lease receivables), debt (excluding lease obligations), interest rate exchange agreements, foreign currency exchange contracts and marketable security price forward contracts for our common stock. we historically have utilized forward contracts for our common stock to manage the expense related to our stock-based compensation awards. on january 21, 2010, we settled our forward contract and have elected not to enter into a new contract in 2010. presented below is a sensitivity analysis of the fair value of financial instruments outstanding at year-end. we estimate the fair value of the financial instruments using discounted cash flow analysis and indicative market pricing as reported by leading financial news and data providers. this sensitivity analysis is most likely not indicative of actual results in the future. the following table illustrates the sensitivity to a hypothetical change in the fair value of the financial instruments assuming a 10% decrease in interest rates, a 10% strengthening in exchange rates against the u.s. dollar and a 10% decrease in the quoted market price of our common stock. 39 table of contents 2009 2008 sensitivity of sensitivity of fair value fair value carrying fair to a 10% carrying fair to a 10% (in millions) value* value* change value* value* change manufacturing group: foreign exchange rate risk debt $ (589 ) $ (545 ) $ (55 ) $ (653 ) $ (497 ) $ (50 ) foreign currency exchange contracts 58 58 46 (20 ) (20 ) 72 $ (531 ) $ (487 ) $ (9 ) $ (673 ) $ (517 ) $ 22 equity price risk forward contracts for textron inc. stock $ 7 $ 7 $ (2 ) $ (98 ) $ (98 ) $ (4 ) interest rate risk debt $ (3,474 ) $ (3,762 ) $ (37 ) $ (2,438 ) $ (2,074 ) $ (10 ) finance group: interest rate risk finance receivables $ 5,952 $ 5,494 $ 135 $ 7,325 $ 6,487 $ 210 debt (6,106 ) (5,874 ) (54 ) (7,549 ) (6,663 ) (105 ) interest rate exchanges debt 58 58 4 133 133 5 interest rate exchanges receivables (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) (20 ) (20 ) (2 ) $ (97 ) $ (323 ) $ 84 $ (111 ) $ (63 ) $ 108 * the value represents an asset or (liability).risk factors our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. the risks discussed below are those that we believe currently are the most significant, although additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem less significant also may impact our business, financial condition or results of operations, perhaps materially. we have customer concentration with the u.s. government. during 2010, we derived approximately 34% of our revenues from sales to a variety of u.s. government entities. our ability to compete successfully for and retain u.s. government business is highly dependent on technical excellence, management proficiency, strategic alliances, cost-effective performance, and the ability to recruit and retain key personnel. our revenues from the u.s. government largely result from contracts awarded to us under various u.s. government defense-related programs. the funding of these programs is subject to congressional appropriation decisions. although multiple-year contracts may be planned in connection with major procurements, congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may continue for several years. consequently, programs often are only partially funded initially, and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. the reduction or termination of funding, or changes in the timing of funding, for a u.s. government program in which we provide products or services would result in a reduction or loss of anticipated future revenues attributable to that program and could have a negative impact on our results of operations. significant changes in national and international priorities for defense spending could impact the funding, or the timing of funding, of our programs, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. u.s. government contracts may be terminated at any time and may contain other unfavorable provisions. the u.s. government typically can terminate or modify any of its contracts with us either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. a termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. if any of our contracts are terminated by the u.s. government, our backlog would be reduced, in accordance with contract terms, by the expected value of the remaining work under such contracts. in addition, on those contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our products and services as a subcontractor. in any such event, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations. we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of u.s. government contracts. these laws and regulations, among other things, require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiation, define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based u.s. government contracts, and restrict the use and dissemination of classified information and the exportation of certain products and technical data. our u.s. government contracts contain provisions that allow the u.s. government to unilaterally suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations, reduce the value of existing contracts, issue modifications to a contract, and control and potentially prohibit the export of our products, services and associated materials. several of our u.s. government contracts contain provisions that mandate us to disclose whether or not we have been the subject of a proceeding that resulted in a criminal conviction, based on certain statutes, certain findings of civil liability, and certain administrative determinations of fault or a settlement with an acknowledgment of fault in connection with the performance of a government contract. failure to properly and timely disclose may result in a termination for default or cause, suspension and/or debarment, and potential fines. in addition, we are subject to audits by the defense contract audit agency to assure our compliance with the laws and regulations applicable to u.s. government contractors. a violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties or the termination of our contracts and, under certain circumstances, suspension or debarment from future contracts for a period of time. also, changes in procurement policies, budget considerations, unexpected u.s. developments, such as terrorist attacks, or similar political developments or events abroad that may change the u.s. government national security defense posture may affect sales to government entities. these laws and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. the department of defense (dod) has announced plans for significant changes to its business practices that could have a material effect on its overall procurement process and adversely impact our current programs and potential new awards. recently, the dod has announced various initiatives designed to gain efficiencies, refocus priorities and enhance business practices used by the dod, including those used to procure goods and services from defense contractors. the most recent initiatives are 8 organized in five major areas: affordability and cost growth; productivity and innovation; competition; services acquisition; and processes and bureaucracy. these new initiatives are expected to impact significantly the contracting environment in which we do business with our dod customers, and they could have a significant impact on current programs, as well as new business opportunities. changes to the dod acquisition system and contracting models could affect whether and, if so, how we pursue certain opportunities and the terms under which we are able to do so. cost overruns on u.s. government contracts could subject us to losses or adversely affect our future business. under fixed-price contracts, as a general rule, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur, and, consequently, any costs in excess of the fixed price are absorbed by us. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates used in developing the pricing for such contracts may adversely affect our results of operations. under time and materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. under cost-reimbursement contracts, which are subject to a contract-ceiling amount, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based. however, if our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs. under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs we incur in performing under the contract, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. cost overruns also may adversely affect our ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards. weak demand for our aircraft products may continue to adversely affect our financial results. as a result of the recent worldwide economic downturn, over the past several years we have experienced weak demand for our new and used aircraft, a tightening of credit availability for potential purchasers of our aircraft, and a substantial number of cancellations of orders and customer requests for delayed delivery of ordered aircraft. soft demand for new and used business jets and helicopters could persist and could continue to adversely impact the pricing of new aircraft and the valuation of used aircraft. in addition, both u.s. and foreign governments and government agencies regulate the aviation industry; they may impose new regulations with additional aircraft security or other requirements or restrictions, including, for example, restrictions and/or fees related to carbon emissions levels that may adversely impact demand for business jets and/or helicopters. a prolonged weakness in the markets for our commercial aircraft products could adversely impact our results of operations and our future prospects. we may not be able to continue to execute the liquidation of our finance segment non-captive commercial finance business at a favorable pace and level of recovery. in the fourth quarter of 2008, we announced a plan to exit the non-captive portion of the commercial finance business of our finance segment while retaining the captive portion of the business that supports customer purchases of products that we manufacture. the exit plan is being effected through a combination of orderly liquidation and selected sales. we cannot be certain that we will be able to continue to accomplish the orderly liquidation of our portfolio on a timely or successful basis or in a manner that will generate cash sufficient to service our finance segment debt. we may encounter delays and difficulties in effecting the continued orderly liquidation of our various receivable portfolios as a result of many factors, including the inability of our customers to find alternative financing, which could expose us to increased credit losses. we may have greater difficulty in selling the remaining receivables that have been designated for sale or transfer, assets that have been acquired upon foreclosure of receivables and/or other non-operating assets at the pricing that we anticipate or in the time frame that we anticipate. we may be required to make additional mark-to-market or other adjustments against assets that we intend to sell or to take additional reserves against assets that we intend to retain. we may change our current strategy based on either our performance and liquidity position or changes in external factors affecting the value and/or marketability of our assets, which could result in changes in the classification of assets we intend to hold for investment and additional mark-to-market adjustments. we may incur higher costs than anticipated as a result of this exit plan or be subject to claims made by third parties, and the exit plan may result in increased credit losses. we expect that our portfolio quality will continue to deteriorate as we proceed through the liquidation and the asset mix changes and that our cash conversion ratio on liquidation will decrease; this deterioration could be more severe and the cash conversion ratio lower than we anticipate, resulting in greater losses. significant delay or difficulty in executing the continued liquidation and/or substantial losses could result in the failure of our portfolio to generate the cash necessary to service our finance segment indebtedness, resulting in continuing or increased adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. difficult conditions in the financial markets have adversely affected the quality of our finance segment finance asset portfolios, and our losses may increase if we are unable to successfully collect our finance receivables or realize sufficient value from collateral. the financial performance of our finance segment depends on the quality of loans, leases and other assets in its finance asset portfolios. portfolio quality may be adversely affected by several factors, including finance receivable underwriting procedures, collateral quality, geographic or industry concentrations, and the effect of the recent economic downturn on our customers businesses, as well as the broader deterioration of the financial markets. as a result of the tumultuous conditions in the financial markets over the past two years, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and, in some cases, ceased, to provide funding to borrowers. these conditions have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies and defaults, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility, widespread reduction of business activity, and bankruptcy filings. valuations of the types of collateral securing our timeshare and other portfolios have been and may continue to be adversely affected by increased consumer delinquencies, the reduction in business activity and bankruptcy proceedings involving our borrowers. valuations of the types of collateral securing our captive finance portfolio, particularly valuations of used aircraft, have decreased significantly over the past two years and may continue to decrease if weak economic conditions continue. declining collateral values could result in greater 9 delinquencies and foreclosures as customers elect to discontinue payments on loan balances that exceed asset values. bankruptcy proceedings involving our borrowers may prevent or delay our ability to exercise our rights and remedies and realize the full value of our collateral. our losses may increase if our collateral cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of our finance receivable portfolio. if these negative market conditions persist or worsen, the finance segment may experience further deterioration in its ability to successfully collect its finance receivables or realize sufficient value from collateral, which may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition. payments required under our support agreement with tfc could restrict our use of capital. during the past several years, we have made quarterly capital contributions to tfc, as required under the terms of our support agreement with tfc, to maintain both the fixed charge coverage ratio required by the support agreement and the leverage ratio required by tfc credit facility. a summary of the capital contributions paid to tfc and dividends received from tfc is provided on page 29. we will likely be required to make additional capital contributions to tfc in the future in order to maintain this ratio. while capital contributions to tfc may not increase the aggregate amount of outstanding consolidated indebtedness of textron and tfc, such contributions could restrict our allocation of available capital for other purposes. in addition, recently, from time to time, tfc has borrowed from us to meet its liquidity needs, and is expected to require further borrowings from us for its liquidity needs in the future, depending upon market conditions. tfc need for borrowings from us could restrict our use of funds for other purposes. failure to maintain credit ratings acceptable to investors may increase the cost of our funding and may adversely affect our access to the capital markets. the major rating agencies regularly evaluate us, including tfc, for purposes of assigning credit ratings. our ability to access the credit markets, and the cost of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of our credit ratings and current market conditions. failure to maintain credit ratings that are acceptable to investors may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain financing, as well as our access to the capital markets. we may need to obtain financing in order to meet our debt obligations in the future; such financing may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all. we may periodically need to obtain financing in order to meet our debt obligations as they come due. although we currently have access to the capital markets, we may not be able to refinance our credit facilities or maturing debt at the time that such financing is necessary at terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. if we cannot obtain adequate sources of credit on favorable terms, or at all, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. our ability to fund our captive financing activities at economically competitive levels depends on our ability to borrow and the cost of borrowing in the credit markets. our finance segment ability to continue to offer customer financing for the products that we manufacture, and the long-term viability and profitability of the captive finance business, is largely dependent on our ability to obtain funding at a reasonable cost. this ability and cost, in turn, are dependent on our credit ratings and are subject to credit market volatility. if we are unable to continue to offer customer financing or if we are unable to offer competitive customer financing, it could negatively impact our manufacturing group ability to generate sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. failure to perform by our subcontractors or suppliers could adversely affect our performance. we rely on other companies to provide raw materials, major components and subsystems for our products. subcontractors also perform services that we provide to our customers in certain circumstances. in addition, we outsource certain support functions, including certain global information technology infrastructure services to third-party service providers. we depend on these vendors, subcontractors and service providers to meet our contractual obligations to our customers and conduct our operations. our ability to meet our obligations to our customers may be adversely affected if suppliers or subcontractors do not provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services in compliance with customer requirements and in a timely and cost-effective manner. likewise, the quality of our products may be adversely impacted if companies to whom we delegate manufacture of major components or subsystems for our products, or from whom we acquire such items, do not provide components or subsystems which meet required specifications and perform to our and our customers expectations. our suppliers may be less likely than us to be able to quickly recover from natural disasters and other events beyond their control and may be subject to additional risks such as financial problems that limit their ability to conduct their operations. the risk of these adverse effects may be greater in circumstances where we rely on only one or two subcontractors or suppliers for a particular raw material, product or service. in particular, in the aircraft industry, most vendor parts are certified by the regulatory agencies as part of the overall type certificate for the aircraft being produced by the manufacturer. if a vendor does not or cannot supply its parts, then the manufacturer production line may be stopped until the manufacturer can design, manufacture and certify a similar part itself or identify and certify another similar vendor part, resulting in significant delays in the completion of aircraft. such events may adversely affect our financial results, damage our reputation and relationships with our customers, result in regulatory actions and/or result in product liability claims. likewise, any disruption of our information technology systems or other outsourced processes or functions could have a material adverse impact on our operations and our financial results. 10 developing new products and technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties. to continue to grow our revenues and segment profit, we must successfully develop new products and technologies or modify our existing products and technologies for our current and future markets. our future performance depends, in part, on our ability to identify emerging technological trends and customer requirements in our current and future markets and to develop and maintain competitive products and services. delays or cost overruns in the development and acceptance of new products, or certification of new aircraft and other products, could affect our financial results of operations. these delays could be caused by unanticipated technological hurdles, production changes to meet customer demands, unanticipated difficulties in obtaining required regulatory certifications of new aircraft products, coordination with joint venture partners or failure on the part of our suppliers to deliver components as agreed. changes in environmental laws and regulations, for example, those enacted in response to climate change concerns and other actions known as green initiatives, could lead to the necessity for new or additional investment in product designs and could increase environmental compliance expenditures, including costs to defend regulatory reviews. we also could be adversely affected if the general efficacy of our research and development investments to develop products is less than expected or if we do not adequately protect the intellectual property developed through our research and development efforts. likewise, new products and technologies could generate unanticipated safety or other concerns resulting in expanded product liability risks, potential product recalls and other regulatory issues that could have an adverse impact on us. furthermore, because of the lengthy research and development cycle involved in bringing certain of our products to market, we cannot predict the economic conditions that will exist when any new product is complete. a reduction in capital spending in the aerospace or defense industries could have a significant effect on the demand for new products and technologies under development, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, there can be no assurance that the market for our offerings will develop or continue to expand as we currently anticipate. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing technologies which gain market acceptance in advance of our products. our failure in our new product development efforts or the failure of our products or services to achieve market acceptance more rapidly than our competitors could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our business is subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries. our international business, including u.s. exports, exposes us to certain unique and potentially greater risks than our domestic business. our exposure to such risks increases as our international business continues to grow. our international business is subject to u.s. and local government regulations and procurement policies and practices, which may change from time to time, including regulations relating to import-export control; environmental, health and safety; investments; exchange controls; and repatriation of earnings or cash settlement challenges, as well as to varying currency, geopolitical and economic risks. these international risks may be especially significant with respect to aerospace and defense products for which we sometimes first must obtain licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before we are permitted to sell our products outside the u.s. any significant impairment of our ability to sell products outside the u.s. could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, some international government customers require contractors to agree to specific in-country purchases, manufacturing agreements or financial support arrangements, known as offsets, as a condition for a contract award. the contracts generally extend over several years and may include penalties if we fail to meet the offset requirements, which could adversely impact our revenues, profitability and cash flows. additionally, we are facing increasing competition in our international markets from foreign and multinational firms that may have certain home country advantages over us; as a result, our ability to compete successfully in those markets may be adversely affected, which could negatively impact our revenues. we maintain manufacturing facilities, services centers, supply centers and other facilities worldwide, including in various emerging market countries, and we expect that our investment in emerging market countries will continue to increase. emerging market operations can present many risks, including civil disturbances, economic and government instability, terrorism and related safety concerns, health concerns, cultural differences in employment and business practices, the imposition of exchange controls and risks associated with inadequate infrastructures to deal with natural disasters. the impact of any one or more of these or other factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. we also are exposed to risks associated with using foreign representatives and consultants for international sales and operations and teaming with international subcontractors and suppliers in connection with international programs. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act. although we implement policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, any such violation by any of our international representatives, consultants, subcontractors or suppliers, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. we are subject to increasing compliance risks that could adversely affect our operating results. as a global business, we are subject to laws and regulations in the u.s. and other countries in which we operate. our increased focus on international sales and global operations requires importing and exporting goods and technology, some of which have military applications subjecting them to more stringent import-export controls, across international borders on a regular basis. both u.s. and foreign laws and regulations applicable to us have been increasing in scope and complexity. in addition, we could be affected by u.s. or foreign laws or regulations imposed in response to climate change concerns. changes in laws and regulations, or in related interpretation and policies, and new laws and regulations could increase our costs of doing business, affect how we conduct our operations and limit our ability to sell our products and services. in addition, a violation of u.s. and/or foreign laws by one of our 11 employees or business partners could subject us or our employees to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions, including denial of import or export privileges and debarment as a government contractor. these improper actions could damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our business. we are subject to legal proceedings and other claims. we are subject to legal proceedings and other claims arising out of the conduct of our business, including proceedings and claims relating to commercial and financial transactions; government contracts; lack of compliance with applicable laws and regulations; production partners; product liability; patent and trademark infringement; employment disputes; and environmental, safety and health matters. under federal government procurement regulations, certain claims brought by the u.s. government could result in our being suspended or debarred from u.s. government contracting for a period of time. on the basis of information presently available, we do not believe that existing proceedings and claims will have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. however, litigation is inherently unpredictable, and we could incur judgments or enter into settlements for current or future claims that could adversely affect our financial position or our results of operations in any particular period. intellectual property infringement claims of others and the inability to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our customers. intellectual property infringement claims may be asserted by third parties against us or our customers. any related indemnification payments or legal costs we may be obliged to pay on behalf of our businesses, our customers or other third parties could be costly. in addition, we own the rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names, trade names and trade secrets that are important to our business. the inability to enforce these intellectual property rights may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. additionally, our intellectual property could be at risk due to various cyber threats. certain of our products are subject to laws regulating consumer products and could be subject to repurchase or recall as a result of safety issues. as a distributor of consumer products in the u.s., certain of our products also are subject to the consumer product safety act, which empowers the u.s. consumer product safety commission (cpsc) to exclude from the market products that are found to be unsafe or hazardous. under certain circumstances, the cpsc could require us to repair, replace or refund the purchase price of one or more of our products, or potentially even discontinue entire product lines, or we may voluntarily do so, but within strictures recommended by the cpsc. the cpsc also can impose fines or penalties on a manufacturer for non-compliance with its requirements. furthermore, failure to timely notify the cpsc of a potential safety hazard can result in significant fines being assessed against us. any repurchases or recalls of our products or an imposition of fines or penalties could be costly to us and could damage the reputation or the value of our brands. additionally, laws regulating certain consumer products exist in some states, as well as in other countries in which we sell our products, and more restrictive laws and regulations may be adopted in the future. if we fail to comply with the covenants contained in our various debt agreements, it may adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. our credit facility contains affirmative and negative covenants, including (i) limitations on creation of liens on assets of textron inc. or of its manufacturing subsidiaries; (ii) maintenance of existence and properties; and (iii) maintenance of a maximum debt to capital ratio (as defined and excluding our finance segment) of 65%. the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes also contain covenants, including limitations on creation of liens on certain principal manufacturing facilities and shares of stock of subsidiaries that own such facilities and restrictions on sale and leaseback transactions with respect to such facilities. in addition, both the credit facility and the indentures provide that consolidations, mergers or sale of all or substantially all of our assets may be effected only if we comply with certain provisions. some of these covenants may limit our ability to engage in certain financing structures, create liens, sell assets, or effect a consolidation or merger. our credit facility also contains a cross-default provision that would trigger an event of default thereunder if we fail to pay or otherwise have a continued default under other indebtedness of textron inc. or any of our subsidiaries, other than any of our subsidiaries that primarily are engaged in the business of a finance company, of more than $100 million. similarly, the supplemental indenture governing our convertible notes contains a cross-default provision that would trigger an event of default thereunder if we fail to pay or otherwise have a continued default under other indebtedness of textron inc. or any of our subsidiaries, other than tfc or its subsidiaries, of more than $100 million. therefore, cessna finance export corporation, a subsidiary of textron inc. that is the borrower under the export-import bank facility entered into on july 14, 2009, and textron aviation finance corporation, a subsidiary of textron inc. that is the borrower under the economic development canada bank (edc) facility entered into on august 6, 2010, would be included within the cross-default provision of the supplemental indenture for the convertible notes, although not within the similar provision in our credit facility. as a result, a failure to pay or a continued default under the export-import bank facility or the edc facility, if the outstanding balance thereunder exceeded $100 million, could give rise to an event of default with respect to our convertible notes. in addition, a bankruptcy or monetary judgment in excess of $100 million against us or any of our subsidiaries that accounts for more than 5% of our consolidated revenues or our consolidated assets, including our finance subsidiaries, also would result in an event of default under our credit facility, and a bankruptcy against us or any of our non-finance significant subsidiaries (within the meaning 12 of the securities and exchange commission rules) also would result in an event of default under the indenture governing our convertible notes. our failure to comply with material provisions or covenants in the credit facility or the indentures, or the failure of certain of our subsidiaries to comply with their debt agreements, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. the increasing costs of certain employee and retiree benefits could adversely affect our results. our earnings and cash flow may be impacted by the amount of income or expense we expend or record for employee benefit plans. this is particularly true for our defined benefit pension plans, where required contributions to those plans and related expenses are driven by, among other things, our assumptions of the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate used for future payment obligations and the rates of future cost growth. additionally, as part of our annual evaluation of these plans, significant changes in our assumptions, due to changes in economic, legislative and/or demographic experience or circumstances, or changes in our actual investment returns could impact our unfunded status of the plans requiring us to substantially increase our pension liability with a resulting decrease in shareholders equity. changes in the funded status of these plans are recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) in the year in which they occur. also, changes in pension legislation and regulations could increase the cost associated with our defined benefit pension plans. in addition, medical costs are rising at a rate faster than the general inflation rate. continued medical cost inflation in excess of the general inflation rate would increase the risk that we will not be able to mitigate the rising costs of medical benefits. moreover, congress recently has enacted a comprehensive healthcare law, and we are evaluating the potential impacts of this new law on our costs. we expect that some of the requirements of this new law will increase our future costs. increases to the costs of pension and medical benefits could have an adverse effect on our financial results of operations. our business could be adversely affected by strikes or work stoppages and other labor issues. approximately 5,900 of our u.s. employees, or 24% of our total u.s. employees, are unionized, and approximately 2,500 of our non-u.s. employees, or 33% of our total non-u.s. employees, are represented by organized councils. as a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, resulting in strain on our relationships with our customers and a loss of revenues. in addition, the presence of unions may limit our flexibility in responding to competitive pressures in the marketplace, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results of operations. in addition, the workforces of many of our customers and suppliers are represented by labor unions. work stoppages or strikes at the plants of our key customers could result in delayed or canceled orders for our products. work stoppages and strikes at the plants of our key suppliers could disrupt our manufacturing processes. any of these results could adversely affect our financial results of operations. currency, raw material price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. in some cases, we purchase derivatives or enter into contracts to insulate our financial results of operations from these fluctuations. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates can have substantial adverse effects on our financial results of operations. we may be unable to effectively mitigate pricing pressures. in some markets, particularly where we deliver component products and services to original equipment manufacturers, we face ongoing customer demands for price reductions, which sometimes are contractually obligated. however, if we are unable to effectively mitigate future pricing pressures through technological advances or by lowering our cost base through improved operating and supply chain efficiencies, our financial results of operations could be adversely affected. the levels of our reserves are subject to many uncertainties and may not be adequate to cover write-downs or losses. we establish reserves to cover uncollectable finance receivables and accounts receivable, excess or obsolete inventory, fair market value write-downs on used aircraft and golf cars, recall campaigns, environmental remediation, warranty costs and litigation. these reserves are subject to adjustment from time to time depending on actual experience and/or current market conditions and are subject to many uncertainties, including bankruptcy or other financial problems at key customers, as well as changing market conditions. due to the nature of our manufacturing business, we may be subject to liability claims arising from accidents involving our products, including claims for serious personal injuries or death caused by climatic factors or by pilot or driver error. in the case of litigation matters for which reserves have not been established because the loss is not deemed probable, it is reasonably possible that such matters could be decided against us and could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures in amounts that are not presently estimable. in addition, we cannot be certain that our reserves are adequate and that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover one or more substantial claims. furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain insurance coverage at acceptable levels and costs in the future. 13 unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in both the u.s. and various non-u.s. jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among these different jurisdictions. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes to unrecognized tax benefits or changes in tax laws, which could affect our profitability. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a tax authority could affect our profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risks our financial results are affected by changes in the u.s. and foreign interest rates. as part of managing this risk, we seek to achieve a prudent balance between floating- and fixed-rate exposures. we continually monitor our mix of these exposures and adjust the mix, as necessary. our finance group limits its risk to changes in interest rates with its strategy of matching floating-rate assets with floating-rate liabilities. this strategy includes the use of interest rate exchange agreements. at january 1, 2011, floating-rate liabilities in excess of floating-rate assets were $591 million, after considering interest rate exchange agreements and the treatment of $640 million of floating-rate loans with index-rate floors as fixed-rate loans. these loans have index rates that are, on average, 198 basis points above the applicable index rate (predominately the prime rate). the finance group has benefited from interest rate floor agreements in the recent low-rate environment; however, in a rising rate environment, this benefit will dissipate until the prime rate exceeds the floor rates embedded in these agreements. the net effect of interest rate exchange agreements designated as hedges of debt decreased interest expense for our finance group by $28 million, $56 million and $25 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 35 foreign exchange risks our financial results are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates and economic conditions in the foreign markets in which our products are manufactured and/or sold. the impact of foreign exchange rate changes for 2010 and 2009 from the prior year for each period is provided below: (in millions) 2010 2009 impact of foreign exchange rates increased (decreased): revenues $ (34 ) $ (51 ) segment profit (7 ) (2 ) for our manufacturing operations, we manage exposures to foreign currency assets and earnings primarily by funding certain foreign currency-denominated assets with liabilities in the same currency so that certain exposures are naturally offset. we primarily use borrowings denominated in euro and british pound sterling for these purposes. in managing our foreign currency transaction exposures, we also enter into foreign currency forward exchange and option contracts. these contracts generally are used to fix the local currency cost of purchased goods or services or selling prices denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. the notional amount of outstanding foreign exchange contracts and foreign currency options was approximately $0.6 billion and $1.0 billion at the end of 2010 and 2009, respectively. quantitative risk measures in the normal course of business, we enter into financial instruments for purposes other than trading. to quantify the market risk inherent in our financial instruments, we utilize a sensitivity analysis. the financial instruments that are subject to market risk (interest rate risk, foreign exchange rate risk and equity price risk) include finance receivables (excluding lease receivables), debt (excluding lease obligations), interest rate exchange agreements and foreign currency exchange contracts. presented below is a sensitivity analysis of the fair value of financial instruments outstanding at year-end. we estimate the fair value of the financial instruments using discounted cash flow analysis and indicative market pricing as reported by leading financial news and data providers. this sensitivity analysis is most likely not indicative of actual results in the future. the following table illustrates the sensitivity to a hypothetical change in the fair value of the financial instruments assuming a 10% decrease in interest rates and a 10% strengthening in exchange rates against the u.s. dollar: 2010 2009 sensitivity of sensitivity of fair value fair value carrying fair to a 10% carrying fair to a 10% ( in millions ) value * value * change value * value * change manufacturing group foreign exchange rate risk debt $ (549 ) $ (549 ) $ (55 ) $ (589 ) $ (545 ) $ (55 ) foreign currency exchange contracts 42 42 39 58 58 46 $ (507 ) $ (507 ) $ (16 ) $ (531 ) $ (487 ) $ (9 ) interest rate risk debt $ (2,172 ) $ (2,698 ) $ (22 ) $ (3,474 ) $ (3,762 ) $ (37 ) finance group interest rate risk finance receivables $ 3,758 $ 3,544 $ 114 $ 5,952 $ 5,494 $ 135 debt, including intergroup (3,975 ) (3,843 ) (47 ) (6,115 ) (5,887 ) (54 ) interest rate exchanges debt 34 34 1 58 58 4 interest rate exchanges receivables (8 ) (8 ) (2 ) (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) $ (191 ) $ (273 ) $ 66 $ (106 ) $ (336 ) $ 84 * the value represents an asset or (liability). 36quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risks "quantitative risks measures," appearing on page 32 of our 2002 annual report to shareholders is incorporated by reference into this annual report on form 10-k. 17quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 11 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative risk measures, appearing on page 31 of our 2003 annual report to shareholders is incorporated by reference into this annual report on form 10-k. 11 table of contentsrisk factors our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. the risks discussed below are those that we believe currently are the most significant, although additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem less significant also may impact our business, financial condition or results of operations, perhaps materially. if the current economic uncertainty and capital market turbulence is prolonged, our planned liquidity actions may not be sufficient to meet our liquidity needs. we have a significant amount of term debt that matures in early 2010, and we are reliant upon our planned liquidity actions to repay these obligations. if our plans to maximize cash flow in our manufacturing businesses through realignment of production levels, cost reduction activities and reduction of working capital, and our plans to liquidate non-captive finance receivables in our finance segment, are not successful, we may not generate enough cash to repay our obligations without obtaining additional financing. we no longer have access to a back-up credit facility, and we may not be successful in obtaining additional financing on acceptable rates and terms, if at all. in such event, we may need to take additional cost-cutting or other measures that could adversely impact our business and results of operations. measures we are taking to enhance our liquidity position in our finance segment, including our plan to exit portions of textron financial corporation commercial finance business, may not work in the manner and within the timeframe that we anticipate or at all. we have announced a plan to exit all of the commercial finance business of our finance segment, other than that portion of the business supporting the financing of customer purchases of textron-manufactured products. the exit plan will be effected through a combination of orderly liquidation and selected sales. we cannot be certain that we will be able to accomplish the orderly liquidation or selected sales on a timely or successful basis or in a manner that will enhance our liquidity position. we may encounter delays and difficulties in effecting an orderly liquidation of our various receivable portfolios as a result of many factors, including the inability of our customers to find alternative financing, which could expose us to increased credit losses, as well as existing contractual limitations. we may not be able to accomplish sales of the receivables that have been designated for sale or transfer at the pricing that we anticipate or in the timeframe that we anticipate. we may be required to make additional mark-to-market or other adjustments against assets that we intend to sell or to take additional reserves against assets that we intend to retain. we may change our current strategy based on either our performance and liquidity position or changes in external factors 7 affecting the value, and/or marketability of our assets, which could result in changes in the classification of assets we intend to hold for investment and additional mark-to-market adjustments. we may incur higher costs than anticipated as a result of this exit plan or be subject to claims made by third parties, and the exit plan may result in exacerbated credit losses. moreover, our withdrawal from these lines of business will reduce the income and cash flow that our finance segment generates in future years. our failure to accomplish the exit plan successfully could result in continuing or increased adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. current levels of credit market volatility are unprecedented, which may continue to disrupt our access (including our finance group access) to the capital markets, and other sources of liquidity may not be available. due to unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption in the credit markets beginning in the second half of 2008, we have experienced difficulty in accessing our historical sources of financing at favorable rates and terms. the continued deterioration of the credit markets has adversely impacted our liquidity. this situation has been exacerbated by the recent downgrades of our credit ratings, which have adversely impacted our ability to access the credit markets. given the current economic environment and the risks associated with the capital markets in general, including the current unavailability to us of public unsecured term debt and difficulty we had in accessing sufficient commercial paper on a daily basis, on february 3, 2009, we borrowed the entire available balance of the $3.0 billion committed bank credit lines available to textron and textron financial corporation. however, the additional liquidity provided by the bank line draw may not be sufficient to meet our needs, and we may need to obtain additional financing or raise additional capital. we are continuing to explore other potential avenues of liquidity, including funding sources in the capital markets, sales of other assets within our manufacturing group and new financing structures for the finance group. however, we may not be able to raise sufficient capital as and when required if the financial markets remain in turmoil, and any capital we raise may be on terms that are dilutive to existing shareholders or otherwise unfavorable to us. any sales of other assets that we may carry out may be completed on unfavorable terms or cause us to incur charges, and we would lose the potential for market upside on those assets in a market recovery. new financing structures may not be available on acceptable rates and terms. if our business continues to experience significant challenges, we may face other pressures, such as employee retention issues and potential loss of suppliers or distributors for our products. payments required under our support agreement with textron financial corporation could restrict our use of capital. as a result of the decision to downsize textron financial corporation and the resulting accounting charges and adjustments recorded in the fourth quarter of 2008, under the terms of our support agreement with textron financial corporation, we made a cash payment of $625 million to textron financial corporation to maintain both the fixed charge coverage ratio required by the support agreement and the leverage ratio required by textron financial corporation credit facility. this cash payment was recorded as a capital contribution to textron financial corporation. we may be required to make additional capital contributions to textron financial corporation in the future in order to maintain these ratios. while capital contributions to textron financial corporation may not increase the aggregate amount of outstanding consolidated indebtedness of textron and textron financial corporation, such contributions could restrict our allocation of available capital for other purposes. in addition, recently, from time to time, textron financial corporation has borrowed from us to meet its liquidity needs, and it may require further borrowings from us for its liquidity needs in the future, depending upon market conditions. textron financial corporation need for borrowings from us could restrict our use of funds for other purposes. our lowered credit ratings limit our access to the capital markets and increases the cost of our funding from the capital markets. the major rating agencies regularly evaluate us, including textron financial corporation. both our long- and short-term credit ratings have recently been subject to downgrades to the ratings disclosed on page 32 in the credit ratings section. in connection with these rating actions, the rating agencies have cited concerns about the finance group, including execution risks associated with our decision to exit the non-captive finance businesses and the need for textron inc. to make capital contributions to textron financial corporation, as well as lower-than-expected business and financial outlook for 2009, the increase in outstanding debt resulting from the drawdown on our credit facilities, weak economic conditions and continued liquidity and funding constraints. failure to maintain investment grade credit ratings that are acceptable to investors would prevent us from accessing the commercial paper markets, and may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain other financing, as well as our access to the capital markets. difficult conditions in the financial markets have adversely affected the business and results of operations of our finance segment, and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. the financial performance of our finance segment depends on the quality of loans, leases and other credit products in its finance asset portfolios. portfolio quality may be adversely affected by several factors, including finance receivable underwriting procedures, collateral quality, or 8 geographic or industry concentrations, the ability of our customers to obtain alternative financing as our finance segment exits certain lines of business, as well as the recent deterioration of the financial markets. current financial market conditions have resulted in significant writedowns of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. these writedowns, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions, and, in some cases, to fail. many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. this market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies and defaults, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity. in addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when our collateral cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of our finance receivable portfolio. further deterioration of our finance segment ability to successfully collect its finance receivable portfolio and to resolve problem accounts may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition. as these current market conditions persist or worsen, we could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. the soundness of our suppliers, customers and business partners could affect our business and results of operations. all of our segments are exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness of our key suppliers, customers and business partners, including automobile manufacturers and other industrial customers, customers of our bell and cessna products, home improvement retailers and original equipment manufacturers, many of which may be adversely affected by the volatile conditions in the financial markets. these conditions could result in financial instability or other adverse effects at any of our suppliers, customers or business partners. the consequences of such adverse effects could include the interruption of production at the facilities of our customers or suppliers, the reduction, delay or cancellation of customer orders, delays in or the inability of customers to obtain financing to purchase our products, and bankruptcy of customers or other creditors. any of these events may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition. the soundness of financial institutions could adversely affect us. we have relationships with many financial institutions, and, from time to time, we execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry. as a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, financial institutions or the financial services industry generally, could result in losses or defaults by these institutions. in the event that the volatility of the financial markets adversely affects these financial institutions or counterparties, we or other parties to the transactions with us may be unable to complete transactions as intended, including divestitures that may be subject to funding requirements on the part of the buyer, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. we have customer concentration with the u.s. government. during 2008, we derived approximately 24% of our revenues from sales to a variety of u.s. government entities. our u.s. government revenues have continued to grow both organically and through acquisitions. our ability to compete successfully for and retain u.s. government business is highly dependent on technical excellence, management proficiency, strategic alliances, cost-effective performance, and the ability to recruit and retain key personnel. our revenues from the u.s. government largely result from contracts awarded to us under various u.s. government programs, primarily defense-related programs. the funding of these programs is subject to congressional appropriation decisions. although multiple-year contracts may be planned in connection with major procurements, congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may continue for several years. consequently, programs often are only partially funded initially, and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. the reduction or termination of funding, or changes in the timing of funding, for a u.s. government program in which we provide products or services would result in a reduction or loss of anticipated future revenues attributable to that program and could have a negative impact on our results of operations. while the overall level of u.s. defense spending has increased in recent years for numerous reasons, including increases in funding of operations in iraq and afghanistan and the u.s. department of defense military transformation initiatives, we can give no assurance that such spending will continue to grow or not be reduced. significant changes in national and international priorities for defense spending could impact the funding, or the timing of funding, of our programs, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. u.s. government contracts may be terminated at any time and may contain other unfavorable provisions. the u.s. government typically can terminate or modify any of its contracts with us either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. a termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. if any of our contracts are terminated by the u.s. government, our backlog would be reduced, in accordance with contract terms, by the expected value of the remaining work under such contracts. in addition, on those contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a 9 subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our products and services as a subcontractor. in any such event, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations. we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of u.s. government contracts. these laws and regulations, among other things, require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiation, define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based u.s. government contracts, and restrict the use and dissemination of classified information and the exportation of certain products and technical data. our u.s. government contracts contain provisions that allow the u.s. government to unilaterally suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations, reduce the value of existing contracts, issue modifications to a contract, and control and potentially prohibit the export of our products, services and associated materials. a violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties or the termination of our contracts and, under certain circumstances, suspension or debarment from future contracts for a period of time. these laws and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. cost overruns on u.s. government contracts could subject us to losses or adversely affect our future business. contract and program accounting require judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating sales and profit rates and are recorded when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance. estimates of award fees also are used in estimating sales and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. because of the significance of these estimates, it is likely that different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future financial results of operations. under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur, and, consequently, any costs in excess of the fixed price are absorbed by us. under time and materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. under cost reimbursement contracts, which are subject to a contract-ceiling amount, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based. however, if our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs. under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs we incur in performing under the contract, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. cost overruns also may adversely affect our ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards. delays in aircraft delivery schedules, cancellation of orders or decline in demand for our aircraft products may adversely affect our financial results. aircraft customers, including sellers of fractional share interests, may respond to weak economic conditions by delaying delivery of orders or canceling orders. weakness in the economy may result in fewer hours flown on existing aircraft and, consequently, lower demand for spare parts and maintenance. weak economic conditions also may cause reduced demand for used business jets or helicopters, including cancellation or deferral of existing orders. we may accept used aircraft on trade-in that would be subject to fluctuations in the fair market value of the aircraft while in inventory. in addition, both u.s. and foreign governments and government agencies regulate the aviation industry; new regulations imposing additional regulatory, aircraft security or other requirements or restrictions may adversely impact demand for business jets and/or helicopters. reduced demand for new and used aircraft, spare parts and maintenance can have an adverse effect on our financial results of operations. developing new products and technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties. delays or cost overruns in the development and acceptance of new products, or certification of new aircraft products and other products, could affect our financial results of operations. these delays could be caused by unanticipated technological hurdles, production changes to meet customer demands, unanticipated difficulties in obtaining required regulatory certifications of new aircraft products, coordination with joint venture partners or failure on the part of our suppliers to deliver components as agreed. we also could be adversely affected if the general efficacy of our research and development investments to develop products is less than expected. furthermore, because of the lengthy research and development cycle involved in bringing certain of our products to market, we cannot predict the economic conditions that will exist when any new product is complete. a reduction in capital spending in the aerospace or defense industries could have a significant effect on the demand for new products and technologies under development, which could have an adverse effect on our financial performance or results of operations. 10 our joint venture, teaming and other arrangements involve risks and uncertainties. we have entered, and expect to continue to enter, into joint venture, teaming and other arrangements, and these activities involve risks and uncertainties, including the risk of the joint venture or related business partner failing to satisfy its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments, the challenges in achieving strategic objectives and expected benefits of the business arrangement, the risk of conflicts arising between us and our partners and the difficulty of managing and resolving such conflicts, and the difficulty of managing or otherwise monitoring such business arrangements. we may make acquisitions and dispositions that increase the risks of our business. we may enter into acquisitions or dispositions in the future in an effort to enhance shareholder value. acquisitions or dispositions involve a certain amount of risks and uncertainties that could result in our not achieving expected benefits. with respect to acquisitions, such risks include difficulties in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner; challenges in achieving expected strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits; the risk that the acquired businesses markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; the risk that we pay a purchase price that exceeds what the future results of operations would have merited; and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses. with respect to dispositions, the decision to dispose of a business or asset may result in a writedown of the related assets if the fair market value of the assets, less costs of disposal, is less than the book value. in addition, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies at acceptable prices and terms and in a timely manner. we may also underestimate the costs of retained liabilities or indemnification obligations. in addition, unanticipated delays or difficulties in effecting acquisitions or dispositions may divert the attention of our management and resources from our existing operations. our operations could be adversely affected by interruptions of production that are beyond our control. our business and financial results may be affected by certain events that we cannot anticipate or that are beyond our control, such as natural disasters and national emergencies that could curtail production at our facilities and cause delayed deliveries and canceled orders. in addition, we purchase components and raw materials and information technology and other services from numerous suppliers, and, even if our facilities are not directly affected by such events, we could be affected by interruptions at such suppliers. such suppliers may be less likely than our own facilities to be able to quickly recover from such events and may be subject to additional risks such as financial problems that limit their ability to conduct their operations. our business could be adversely affected by strikes or work stoppages and other labor issues. approximately 9,400 of our employees, or 22% of our total employees, are unionized. as a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, resulting in strain on our relationships with our customers and a loss of revenues. in addition, the presence of unions may limit our flexibility in responding to competitive pressures in the marketplace, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results of operations. in addition to our workforce, the workforces of many of our customers and suppliers are represented by labor unions. work stoppages or strikes at the plants of our key customers could result in delayed or canceled orders for our products. work stoppages and strikes at the plants of our key suppliers could disrupt our manufacturing processes. any of these results could adversely affect our financial results of operations. our international business is subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries. our international business exposes us to certain unique and potentially greater risks than our domestic business, and our exposure to such risks may increase if our international business continues to grow. our international business is subject to local government regulations and procurement policies and practices, including regulations relating to import-export control, investments, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings or cash settlement challenges, as well as to varying currency, geopolitical and economic risks. we also are exposed to risks associated with using foreign representatives and consultants for international sales and operations and teaming with international subcontractors and suppliers in connection with international programs. we are subject to legal proceedings and other claims. we are subject to legal proceedings and other claims arising out of the conduct of our business, including proceedings and claims relating to commercial and financial transactions; government contracts; lack of compliance with applicable laws and regulations; production partners; product liability; patent and trademark infringement, employment disputes; and environmental, safety and health matters. under federal government procurement regulations, certain claims brought by the u.s. government could result in our being suspended or debarred from u.s. government contracting for a period of time. on the basis of information presently available, we do not believe that existing proceedings and 11 claims will have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. however, litigation is inherently unpredictable, and we could incur judgments or enter into settlements for current or future claims that could adversely affect our financial position or our results of operations in any particular period. the levels of our reserves are subject to many uncertainties and may not be adequate to cover writedowns or losses. in addition to reserves at our finance segment, we establish reserves in our manufacturing segments to cover uncollectible accounts receivable, excess or obsolete inventory, fair market value writedowns on used aircraft and golf cars, recall campaigns, warranty costs and litigation. these reserves are subject to adjustment from time to time depending on actual experience and are subject to many uncertainties, including bankruptcy or other financial problems at key customers. in the case of litigation matters for which reserves have not been established because the loss is not deemed probable, it is reasonably possible such matters could be decided against us and could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures in amounts that are not presently estimable. the effect of these matters on our financial results depends, in some cases, on our ability to obtain insurance covering potential losses at reasonable rates. currency, raw material price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. in some cases, we purchase derivatives or enter into contracts to insulate our financial results of operations from these fluctuations. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates can have substantial adverse effects on our financial results of operations. we may be unable to effectively mitigate pricing pressures. in some markets, particularly where we deliver component products and services to original equipment manufacturers, we face ongoing customer demands for price reductions, which sometimes are contractually obligated. in some cases, we are able to offset these reductions through technological advances or by lowering our cost base through improved operating and supply chain efficiencies. however, if we are unable to effectively mitigate future pricing pressures, our financial results of operations could be adversely affected. failure to perform by our subcontractors or suppliers could adversely affect our performance. we rely on other companies to provide raw materials, major components and subsystems for our products. subcontractors also perform services that we provide to our customers in certain circumstances. we depend on these subcontractors and vendors to meet our contractual obligations to our customers. our ability to meet our obligations to our customers may be adversely affected if suppliers do not provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services in compliance with customer requirements and in a timely and cost-effective manner. such events may adversely affect our financial results of operations or damage our reputation and relationships with our customers. the risk of these adverse effects may be greater in circumstances where we rely on only one or two subcontractors or suppliers for a particular product or service. the increasing costs of certain employee and retiree benefits could adversely affect our results. our earnings and cash flow may be impacted by the amount of income or expense we expend or record for employee benefit plans. this is particularly true for our defined benefit pension plans, where the contributions to those plans are driven by, among other things, our assumptions of the rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate used for future payment obligations and the rates of future cost growth. if the actual investment return and rates prove materially different from our assumptions, this could adversely impact the amount of pension expense and require larger contributions to the plans. also, changing pension legislation and regulations could increase the cost associated with our defined benefit pension plans. in addition, medical costs are rising at a rate faster than the general inflation rate. continued medical cost inflation in excess of the general inflation rate increases the risk that we will not be able to mitigate the rising costs of medical benefits. increases to the costs of pension and medical benefits could have an adverse effect on our financial results of operations. unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in both the u.s. and various non-u.s. jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among these different jurisdictions. our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws, which could affect our profitability. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a tax authority could affect our profitability. 12 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risks our financial results are affected by changes in u.s. and foreign interest rates. as part of managing this risk, we enter into interest rate exchange agreements to convert certain floating-rate debt to fixed-rate debt and vice versa. the overall objective of our interest rate risk management is to achieve a prudent balance between floating- and fixed-rate debt. we continually monitor our mix of floating- and fixed-rate debt and adjust the mix, as necessary, based on our evaluation of internal and external factors. the difference between the rates our manufacturing group received and the rates it paid on interest rate exchange agreements did not significantly impact interest expense in 2008, 2007 or 2006. our finance group limits its risk to changes in interest rates with its strategy of matching floating-rate assets with floating-rate liabilities. this strategy includes the use of interest rate exchange agreements. at january 3, 2009, floating-rate liabilities in excess of floating-rate assets were $3.0 billion, net of $2.1 billion of interest rate exchange agreements, which effectively converted fixed-rate debt to a floating-rate equivalent. classified within fixed-rate assets are $3.0 billion of floating rate loans with index rate floors that are, on average, 224 basis points above the applicable index rate (predominately the prime rate). these assets will remain classified as fixed-rate until the prime rate increases above the floor rates. we have benefited from the interest rate floor arrangements in the recent low rate environment; however, in a rising rate environment, this benefit will dissipate until the prime rate exceeds the floor rates embedded in these agreements. the net effect of interest rate exchange agreements designated as hedges of debt decreased interest expense for our finance group by $25 million in 2008 and increased interest expense by $25 million and $27 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. 40 foreign exchange risks our financial results are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates and economic conditions in the foreign markets in which products are manufactured and/or sold. for 2008, the impact of foreign exchange rate changes from 2007 increased revenues by approximately $90 million (0.7%) and decreased segment profit by approximately $2 million (0.1%). for our manufacturing operations, we manage exposures to foreign currency assets and earnings primarily by funding certain foreign currency denominated assets with liabilities in the same currency so that certain exposures are naturally offset. we primarily use borrowings denominated in euro and british pound sterling for these purposes. in managing our foreign currency transaction exposures, we also enter into foreign currency forward exchange and option contracts. these contracts generally are used to fix the local currency cost of purchased goods or services or selling prices denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. the notional amount of outstanding foreign currency exchange contracts and foreign currency options was approximately $1.0 billion at the end of 2008 and $1.1 billion at the end of 2007. quantitative risk measures in the normal course of business, we enter into financial instruments for purposes other than trading. to quantify the market risk inherent in our financial instruments, we utilize a sensitivity analysis. the financial instruments that are subject to market risk (interest rate risk, foreign exchange rate risk and equity price risk) include finance receivables (excluding lease receivables), debt (excluding lease obligations), interest rate exchange agreements, foreign currency exchange contracts and marketable security price forward contracts for our common stock. we utilize forward contracts for our common stock to manage the expense related to our stock-based compensation awards. presented below is a sensitivity analysis of the fair value of financial instruments outstanding at year-end. we estimate the fair value of the financial instruments using discounted cash flow analysis and indicative market pricing as reported by leading financial news and data providers. this sensitivity analysis is most likely not indicative of actual results in the future. the following table illustrates the sensitivity to a hypothetical change in the fair value of the financial instruments assuming a 10% decrease in interest rates, a 10% strengthening in exchange rates against the u.s. dollar and a 10% decrease in the quoted market price of our common stock. 2008 2007 sensitivity of sensitivity of fair value fair value carrying fair to a 10% carrying fair to a 10% (in millions) value* value* change value* value* change manufacturing group: foreign exchange rate risk debt $ (653 ) $ (497 ) $ (50 ) $ (778 ) $ (776 ) $ (78 ) foreign currency exchange contracts (20 ) (20 ) 72 52 52 75 $ (673 ) $ (517 ) $ 22 $ (726 ) $ (724 ) $ (3 ) equity price risk forward contracts for textron inc. stock $ (98 ) $ (98 ) $ (4 ) $ 62 $ 62 $ (18 ) interest rate risk debt $ (2,438 ) $ (2,074 ) $ (10 ) $ (1,998 ) $ (2,021 ) $ (37 ) finance group: interest rate risk finance receivables held for investment $ 5,665 $ 4,828 $ 173 $ 7,364 $ 7,378 $ 33 debt (7,549 ) (6,663 ) (105 ) (7,336 ) (7,309 ) (80 ) interest rate exchanges debt 133 133 5 19 19 18 interest rate exchanges receivables (20 ) (20 ) (2 ) (1 ) (1 ) $ (1,771 ) $ (1,722 ) $ 71 $ 46 $ 87 $ (29 ) * the value represents an asset or (liability). 41quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk interest rate risks textron financial results are affected by changes in u.s. and foreign interest rates. as part of managing this risk, textron enters into interest rate exchange agreements to convert certain floating-rate debt to fixed-rate debt and vice versa. the overall objective of textron interest rate risk management is to achieve a prudent balance between floating- and fixed-rate debt. textron mix of floating- and fixed-rate debt is continuously monitored by management and is adjusted, as necessary, based on evaluation of internal and external factors. the difference between the rates textron manufacturing received and the rates it paid on interest rate exchange agreements did not significantly impact interest expense in 2004, 2003 or 2002. within its finance segment, textron strategy of matching floating-rate assets with floating-rate liabilities limits its risk to changes in interest rates. this strategy includes the use of interest rate exchange agreements. at january 1, 2005, floating-rate liabilities in excess of floating-rate assets were $421 million, net of $2.0 billion of interest rate exchange agreements on fixed-rate long-term debt and $168 million of interest rate exchange agreements on fixed-rate finance receivables. for textron finance, interest rate exchange agreements designated as hedges of debt had the effect of decreasing interest expense by $40 million, $43 million and $20 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. 28 foreign exchange risks textron financial results are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates and economic conditions in the foreign markets in which products are manufactured and/or sold. for 2004, the impact of foreign exchange rate changes from 2003 increased revenues by approximately $287 million (2.9%) and increased segment profit by approximately $27 million (3.5%). textron manufacturing manages its exposures to foreign currency assets and earnings primarily by funding certain foreign currency denominated assets with liabilities in the same currency and, as such, certain exposures are naturally offset. during 2004, textron manufacturing primarily used borrowings denominated in euro and british pound sterling for these purposes. in addition, as part of managing its foreign currency transaction exposures, textron manufacturing enters into foreign currency forward exchange and option contracts. these contracts are generally used to fix the local currency cost of purchased goods or services or selling prices denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. the notional amount of outstanding foreign exchange contracts, foreign currency options and currency swaps was approximately $493 million at the end of 2004 and $519 million at the end of 2003. quantitative risk measures textron utilizes a sensitivity analysis to quantify the market risk inherent in its financial instruments. financial instruments held by textron that are subject to market risk (interest rate risk, foreign exchange rate risk and equity price risk) include finance receivables (excluding lease receivables), debt (excluding lease obligations), interest rate exchange agreements, foreign exchange contracts, marketable equity securities and marketable security price forward contracts. presented below is a sensitivity analysis of the fair value of textron financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading at year-end. the following table illustrates the sensitivity to a hypothetical change in the fair value of the financial instruments at year-end assuming a 10% decrease in interest rates, a 10% strengthening in exchange rates against the u.s. dollar and a 10% decrease in the quoted market prices of applicable marketable equity securities. the estimated fair value of the financial instruments was determined by discounted cash flow analysis and by independent investment bankers. this sensitivity analysis is most likely not indicative of actual results in the future. 2004 2003 (in millions) carrying value* fair value* sensitivity of fair value to a 10% change carrying value* fair value* sensitivity of fair value to a 10% change interest rate risk textron manufacturing: debt $ (1,791 ) $ (1,902 ) $ (34 ) $ (2,027 ) $ (2,177 ) $ (38 ) interest rate exchanges (2 ) (2 ) 4 (1 ) (1 ) 5 textron finance: finance receivables 4,888 4,842 42 4,313 4,274 43 interest rate exchanges receivables 12 12 4 (15 ) (15 ) (6 ) debt (4,783 ) (4,864 ) (66 ) (4,407 ) (4,552 ) (48 ) interest rate exchanges debt 3 3 10 22 22 7 foreign exchange rate risk textron manufacturing: debt (779 ) (817 ) (82 ) (683 ) (751 ) (75 ) foreign currency exchange contracts 34 34 36 20 20 48 equity price risk textron manufacturing: available for sale securities 24 24 (2 ) marketable security price forward contracts 31 31 (14 ) 25 25 (12 ) * asset or (liability) 29risk factors our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. the risks discussed below are those that we believe are currently the most significant, although additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem less significant may also impact our business, financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. we may be unable to effectively mitigate pricing pressures. in some markets, particularly where we deliver component products and services to original equipment manufacturers, we face ongoing customer demands for price reductions, which are sometimes contractually obligated. in some cases, we are able to offset these reductions through technological advances or by lowering our cost base through improved operating and supply chain efficiencies. however, if we are unable to effectively mitigate future pricing pressures, our financial results of operations could be adversely affected. delays in aircraft delivery schedules or cancellation of orders may adversely affect our financial results. aircraft customers, including sellers of fractional share interests, may respond to weak economic conditions by delaying delivery of orders or canceling orders. weakness in the economy may also result in fewer hours flown on existing aircraft and, consequently, lower demand for spare parts and maintenance. weak economic conditions may also cause reduced demand for used business jets. we may accept used aircraft on trade-in that would be subject to fluctuations in the fair market value of the aircraft while in inventory. reduced demand for new and used business jets, spare parts and maintenance can have an adverse effect on our financial results of operations. developing new products and technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties. delays or cost overruns in the development and acceptance of new products, or certification of new aircraft products and other products, could affect our financial results of operations. these delays could be caused by unanticipated technological hurdles, production changes to meet customer demands, coordination with joint venture partners or failure on the part of our suppliers to deliver components as agreed. we also could be adversely affected if the general efficacy of our research and development investments to develop products is less than expected. we have customer concentration with the u.s. government. during 2005, we derived approximately 18% of our revenue from sales to a variety of u.s. government entities. our ability to compete successfully for and retain this business is highly dependent on technical excellence, management proficiency, strategic alliances, cost-effective performance and the ability to recruit and retain key personnel. u.s. government programs are subject to uncertain future funding levels, which can 7 result in the extension or termination of programs. our business is also highly sensitive to changes in national and international priorities and u.s. government budgets. u.s. government contracts may be terminated at any time and may contain other unfavorable provisions. the u.s. government typically can terminate or modify any of its contracts with us either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. a termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. if any of our contracts are terminated by the u.s. government, our backlog would be reduced by the expected value of the remaining terms of such contracts, and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, on those contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our services as a subcontractor. in addition to unfavorable termination provisions, our u.s. government contracts contain provisions that allow the u.s. government to unilaterally suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations, reduce the value of existing contracts, issue modifications to a contract, and control and potentially prohibit the export of our products, services and associated materials. cost overruns on u.s. government contracts could subject us to losses or adversely affect our future business. contract and program accounting require judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating sales and profit rates and are recorded when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance. estimates of award fees are also used in estimating sales and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. because of the significance of the estimates described above, it is likely that different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future financial results of operations. under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur, and consequently, any costs in excess of the fixed price are absorbed by us. under time and materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. under cost reimbursement contracts, which are subject to a contract-ceiling amount, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based. however, if our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs. under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs we incur in performing under the contract, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. cost overruns also may adversely affect our ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards. we may make acquisitions that increase the risks of our business. we may enter into acquisitions in the future in an effort to enhance shareholder value. acquisitions involve a certain amount of risks and uncertainties that could result in our not achieving expected benefits. such risks include difficulties in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner; challenges in achieving expected strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits; the risk that the acquired businesses markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; the risk that we pay a purchase price that exceeds what the future results of operations would have merited; the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; and the risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our existing operations. our operations could be adversely affected by interruptions of production that are beyond our control. our business and financial results may be affected by certain events that we cannot anticipate or that are beyond our control, such as natural disasters and national emergencies, that could curtail production at our facilities and cause delayed deliveries and cancelled orders. in addition, we purchase components and raw materials from numerous suppliers, and even if our facilities are not directly affected by such events, we could be affected by interruptions of production at such suppliers. such suppliers may be less likely than our own facilities to be able to quickly recover from such events, and may be subject to additional risks such as financial problems that limit their ability to conduct their operations. 8 our business could be adversely affected by strikes or work stoppages and other labor issues. approximately 18,500 of our employees are unionized, which represented approximately 40% of our employees at december 31, 2005, including employees of the discontinued business of textron fastening systems. as a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, resulting in strain on our relationships with our customers and a loss of revenues. in addition, the presence of unions may limit our flexibility in responding to competitive pressures in the marketplace, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results of operations. in addition to our workforce, the workforces of many of our customers and suppliers are represented by labor unions. work stoppages or strikes at the plants of our key customers could result in delayed or cancelled orders for our products. work stoppages and strikes at the plants of our key suppliers could disrupt our manufacturing processes. any of these results could adversely affect our financial results of operations. our textron finance borrowing group business is dependent on its continuing access to the capital markets. our financings are conducted through two borrowing groups, textron finance and textron manufacturing. textron finance consists of textron financial corporation and its subsidiaries, which are the entities through which we operate in the finance segment. textron finance relies on its access to the capital markets to fund asset growth, fund operations and meet debt obligations and other commitments. textron finance raises funds through commercial paper borrowings, issuances of medium-term notes and other term debt securities, and syndication and securitization of receivables. additional liquidity is provided to textron finance through bank lines of credit. much of the capital markets funding is made possible by the maintenance of credit ratings that are acceptable to investors. if the credit ratings of textron finance were to be lowered, it might face higher borrowing costs, a disruption of its access to the capital markets or both. textron finance could also lose access to financing for other reasons, such as a general disruption of the capital markets. any disruption of textron finance access to the capital markets could adversely affect its business and our profitability. if textron finance is unable to maintain portfolio credit quality, our financial performance could be adversely affected. a key determinant of financial performance at textron finance will be its ability to maintain the quality of loans, leases and other credit products in its finance asset portfolios. portfolio quality may adversely be affected by several factors, including finance receivable underwriting procedures, collateral quality, geographic or industry concentrations, or general economic downturns. any inability by textron finance to successfully collect its finance receivable portfolio and to resolve problem accounts may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability, and financial condition. we are subject to legal proceedings and other claims. we are subject to legal proceedings and other claims arising out of the conduct of our business, including proceedings and claims relating to private sector transactions; government contracts; production partners; product liability; employment; and environmental contamination. under federal government procurement regulations, certain claims brought by the u.s. government could result in our being suspended or debarred from u.s. government contracting for a period of time. on the basis of information presently available, we do not believe that existing proceedings and claims will have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. however, litigation is inherently unpredictable, and we could incur judgments or enter into settlements for current or future claims that could adversely affect our financial position or our results of operations in any particular period. the levels of our reserves are subject to many uncertainties and may not be adequate to cover writedowns or losses. in addition to reserves at textron finance, we establish reserves in our manufacturing segments to cover uncollectible accounts receivable, excess or obsolete inventory, fair market value writedowns on used aircraft and golf cars, recall campaigns, warranty costs and litigation. these reserves are subject to adjustment from time to time depending on actual experience and are subject to many uncertainties, including bankruptcy or other financial problems at key customers. in the case of litigation matters for which reserves have not been established because the loss is not deemed probable, it is reasonably possible such matters could be decided against us and could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures in amounts that are not presently estimable. the effect on our financial results of many of these factors depends in some cases on our ability to obtain insurance covering potential losses at reasonable rates. 9 currency, raw material price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. in some cases, we purchase derivatives or enter into contracts to insulate our financial results of operations from these fluctuations. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates can have substantial adverse effects on our financial results of operations. the increasing costs of certain employee and retiree benefits could adversely affect our results. our earnings and cash flow may be impacted by the amount of income or expense we expend or record for employee benefit plans. this is particularly true for our pension plans, which are dependent on actual plan asset returns and factors used to determine the value and current costs of plan benefit obligations. in addition, medical costs are rising at a rate faster than the general inflation rate. continued medical cost inflation in excess of the general inflation rate increases the risk that we will not be able to mitigate the rising costs of medical benefits. increases to the costs of pension and medical benefits could have an adverse effect on our financial results of operations. unanticipated changes in textron tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among these different jurisdictions. our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or in tax laws, which could affect our profitability. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a tax authority could affect our profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk interest rate risks our financial results are affected by changes in u.s. and foreign interest rates. as part of managing this risk, we enter into interest rate exchange agreements to convert certain floating-rate debt to fixed-rate debt and vice versa. the overall objective of our interest rate risk management is to achieve a prudent balance between floating- and fixed-rate debt. we continuously monitor our mix of floating- and fixed-rate debt and adjust the mix, as necessary, based on our evaluation of internal and external factors. the difference between the rates textron manufacturing received and the rates it paid on interest rate exchange agreements did not significantly impact interest expense in 2005, 2004 or 2003. within the finance segment, a strategy of matching floating-rate assets with floating-rate liabilities limits our risk to changes in interest rates. this strategy includes the use of interest rate exchange agreements. at december 31, 2005, floating-rate liabilities in excess of floating-rate assets were $156 million, net of $2.9 billion of interest rate exchange agreements which effectively converted fixed-rate debt to a floating-rate equivalent and $122 million of interest rate exchange agreements which effectively converted fixed-rate finance receivables to a floating-rate equivalent. for textron finance, interest rate exchange agreements designated as hedges of debt had the effect of decreasing interest expense by $11 million, $40 million and $43 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. foreign exchange risks our financial results are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates and economic conditions in the foreign markets in which products are manufactured and/or sold. for 2005, the impact of foreign exchange rate changes from 2004 increased revenues by approximately $31 million (0.4%) and decreased segment profit by approximately $3 million (0.4%). textron manufacturing manages its exposures to foreign currency assets and earnings primarily by funding certain foreign currency denominated assets with liabilities in the same currency so that certain exposures are naturally offset. during 2005, textron manufacturing primarily used borrowings denominated in euro and british pound sterling for these purposes. in managing its foreign currency transaction exposures, textron manufacturing also enters into foreign currency forward exchange and option contracts. these contracts are generally used to fix the local currency cost of purchased goods or services or selling prices denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. the notional amount of outstanding foreign exchange contracts, foreign currency options and currency swaps was approximately $699 million at the end of 2005 and $493 million at the end of 2004. quantitative risk measures in the normal course of business, we enter into financial instruments for purposes other than trading. to quantify the market risk inherent in our financial instruments, we utilize a sensitivity analysis. the financial instruments that are subject to market risk (interest rate risk, foreign exchange rate risk and equity price risk) include finance receivables (excluding lease receivables), debt (excluding lease obligations), interest rate exchange agreements, foreign exchange contracts, marketable equity securities and marketable security price forward contracts. presented below is a sensitivity analysis of the fair value of financial instruments outstanding at year-end. we estimate the fair value of the financial instruments using discounted cash flow analysis and independent investment bankers. this sensitivity analysis is most likely not indicative of actual results in the future. the following table illustrates the sensitivity to a hypothetical change in the fair value of the financial instruments assuming a 10% decrease in interest rates, a 10% strengthening in exchange rates against the u.s. dollar and a 10% decrease in the quoted market prices of applicable marketable equity securities. 33 2005 2004 sensitivity of sensitivity of fair value fair value carrying fair to a 10% carrying fair to a 10% (in millions) value* value* change value* value* change interest rate risk textron manufacturing: debt $ (1,934 ) $ (2,012 ) $ (36 ) $ (1,770 ) $ (1,881 ) $ (34 ) interest rate exchanges (10 ) (10 ) 3 (2 ) (2 ) 4 textron finance: finance receivables 5,589 5,515 32 4,793 4,747 42 interest rate exchanges receivables 8 8 3 12 12 4 debt (5,420 ) (5,423 ) (92 ) (4,783 ) (4,864 ) (66 ) interest rate exchanges debt (47 ) (47 ) 32 3 3 10 foreign exchange rate risk textron manufacturing: debt (932 ) (974 ) (97 ) (758 ) (796 ) (80 ) foreign currency exchange contracts 23 23 56 34 34 36 equity price risk textron manufacturing: marketable security price forward contracts 10 10 (13 ) 31 31 (14 ) * asset or (liability) forward-looking information certain statements in this annual report on form 10-k and other oral and written statements made by textron from time to time are forward-looking statements, including those that discuss strategies, goals, outlook or other non-historical matters; or project revenues, income, returns or other financial measures. these forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the statements, including the following: (a) changes in worldwide economic and political conditions that impact interest and foreign exchange rates; (b) the interruption of production at textron facilities or textron customers or suppliers; (c) textron ability to perform as anticipated and to control costs under contracts with the u.s. government; (d) the u.s. government ability to unilaterally modify or terminate its contracts with textron for the u.s. government convenience or for textron failure to perform, to change applicable procurement and accounting policies and, under certain circumstances, to suspend or debar textron as a contractor eligible to receive future contract awards; (e) changes in national or international funding priorities and government policies on the export and import of military and commercial products; (f) the adequacy of cost estimates for various customer care programs, including servicing warranties; (g) the ability to control costs and successful implementation of various cost reduction programs; (h) the timing of certifications of new aircraft products; (i) the occurrence of slowdowns or downturns in customer markets in which textron products are sold or supplied or where textron financial offers financing; (j) changes in aircraft delivery schedules or cancellation of orders; (k) the impact of changes in tax legislation; (l) the extent to which textron is able to pass raw material price increases through to customers or offset such price increases by reducing other costs; (m) textron ability to offset, through cost reductions, pricing pressure brought by original equipment manufacturer customers; (n) textron ability to realize full value of receivables and investments in securities; (o) the availability and cost of insurance; (p) increases in pension expenses related to lower than expected asset performance or changes in discount rates; (q) textron financial ability to maintain portfolio credit quality; (r) textron financial access to debt financing at competitive rates; (s) uncertainty in estimating contingent liabilities and establishing reserves to address such contingencies; (t) performance of acquisitions; (u) the efficacy of research and development investments to develop new products; (v) bankruptcy or other financial problems at major suppliers or customers that could cause disruptions in textron supply chain or difficulty in collecting amounts owed by such customers; and (w) textron ability to execute planned dispositions. 34risk factors our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. the risks discussed below are those that we believe currently are the most significant, although additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem less significant also may impact our business, financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. we may be unable to effectively mitigate pricing pressures. in some markets, particularly where we deliver component products and services to original equipment manufacturers, we face ongoing customer demands for price reductions, which sometimes are contractually obligated. in some cases, we are able to offset these reductions through technological advances or by lowering our cost base through improved operating and supply chain efficiencies. however, if we are unable to effectively mitigate future pricing pressures, our financial results of operations could be adversely affected. delays in aircraft delivery schedules or cancellation of orders may adversely affect our financial results. aircraft customers, including sellers of fractional share interests, may respond to weak economic conditions by delaying delivery of orders or canceling orders. weakness in the economy also may result in fewer hours flown on existing aircraft and, consequently, lower demand for spare parts and maintenance. weak economic conditions also may cause reduced demand for used business jets or helicopters. we may accept used aircraft on trade-in that would be subject to fluctuations in the fair market value of the aircraft while in inventory. reduced demand for new and used aircraft, spare parts and maintenance can have an adverse effect on our financial results of operations. developing new products and technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties. delays or cost overruns in the development and acceptance of new products, or certification of new aircraft products and other products, could affect our financial results of operations. these delays could be caused by unanticipated technological hurdles, production changes to meet customer demands, coordination with joint venture partners or failure on the part of our suppliers to deliver components as agreed. we also could be adversely affected if the general efficacy of our research and development investments to develop products is less than expected. we have customer concentration with the u.s. government. during 2006, we derived approximately 19% of our revenues from sales to a variety of u.s. government entities. our ability to compete successfully for and retain this business is highly dependent on technical excellence, management proficiency, strategic alliances, cost-effective performance, and the ability to recruit and retain key personnel. u.s. government programs are subject to uncertain future funding levels, which can result in the extension or termination of programs. our business also is highly sensitive to changes in national and international priorities and u.s. government budgets. u.s. government contracts may be terminated at any time and may contain other unfavorable provisions. the u.s. government typically can terminate or modify any of its contracts with us either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. a termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. if any of our contracts are terminated by the u.s. government, our backlog would be reduced, in accordance with contract terms, by the expected value of the remaining work under such contracts, and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, on those contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our products and services as a subcontractor. in addition to these termination provisions, our u.s. government contracts contain provisions that allow the u.s. government to unilaterally suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations, reduce the value of existing contracts, issue modifications to a contract, and control and potentially prohibit the export of our products, services and associated materials. cost overruns on u.s. government contracts could subject us to losses or adversely affect our future business. contract and program accounting require judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs 6 include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating sales and profit rates and are recorded when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance. estimates of award fees also are used in estimating sales and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. because of the significance of the estimates described above, it is likely that different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future financial results of operations. under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur, and, consequently, any costs in excess of the fixed price are absorbed by us. under time and materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. under cost reimbursement contracts, which are subject to a contract-ceiling amount, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based. however, if our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs. under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs we incur in performing under the contract, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. cost overruns also may adversely affect our ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards. we may make acquisitions that increase the risks of our business. we may enter into acquisitions in the future in an effort to enhance shareholder value. acquisitions involve a certain amount of risks and uncertainties that could result in our not achieving expected benefits. such risks include difficulties in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner; challenges in achieving expected strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits; the risk that the acquired businesses markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; the risk that we pay a purchase price that exceeds what the future results of operations would have merited; the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; and the risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our existing operations. our operations could be adversely affected by interruptions of production that are beyond our control. our business and financial results may be affected by certain events that we cannot anticipate or that are beyond our control, such as natural disasters and national emergencies that could curtail production at our facilities and cause delayed deliveries and canceled orders. in addition, we purchase components and raw materials and information technology and other services from numerous suppliers, and even if our facilities are not directly affected by such events, we could be affected by interruptions at such suppliers. such suppliers may be less likely than our own facilities to be able to quickly recover from such events and may be subject to additional risks such as financial problems that limit their ability to conduct their operations. our business could be adversely affected by strikes or work stoppages and other labor issues. approximately 18,000 of our employees are unionized, which represented approximately 45% of our employees at december 30, 2006. as a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, resulting in strain on our relationships with our customers and a loss of revenues. in addition, the presence of unions may limit our flexibility in responding to competitive pressures in the marketplace, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results of operations. in addition to our workforce, the workforces of many of our customers and suppliers are represented by labor unions. work stoppages or strikes at the plants of our key customers could result in delayed or canceled orders for our products. work stoppages and strikes at the plants of our key suppliers could disrupt our manufacturing processes. any of these results could adversely affect our financial results of operations. our finance borrowing group business is dependent on its continuing access to the capital markets. our financings are conducted through two borrowing groups: finance and manufacturing. our finance group consists of textron financial corporation and its subsidiaries, which are the entities through which we operate in the finance segment. our finance group relies on its access to the capital markets to fund asset growth, fund operations, and meet debt obligations and other commitments. this group raises funds through commercial paper borrowings, issuances of medium-term notes and other term debt securities, and syndication and securitization of receivables. additional liquidity is provided to our finance group through bank lines of credit. much of the capital markets funding is made possible by the maintenance of credit ratings that are acceptable to investors. if the credit ratings of our finance group were to be lowered, it might face higher borrowing costs, a disruption of its access to the capital markets or both. our finance group also could lose access to financing for other reasons, such as a general disruption of the capital markets. any disruption of our finance group access to the capital markets could adversely affect its business and our profitability. 7 if our finance group is unable to maintain portfolio credit quality, our financial performance could be adversely affected. a key determinant of financial performance of our finance group will be its ability to maintain the quality of loans, leases and other credit products in its finance asset portfolios. portfolio quality may adversely be affected by several factors, including finance receivable underwriting procedures, collateral quality, geographic or industry concentrations or general economic downturns. any inability by our finance group to successfully collect its finance receivable portfolio and to resolve problem accounts may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition. we are subject to legal proceedings and other claims. we are subject to legal proceedings and other claims arising out of the conduct of our business, including proceedings and claims relating to private sector transactions; government contracts; compliance with applicable laws and regulations; production partners; product liability; employment; and environmental, safety and health matters. under federal government procurement regulations, certain claims brought by the u.s. government could result in our being suspended or debarred from u.s. government contracting for a period of time. on the basis of information presently available, we do not believe that existing proceedings and claims will have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. however, litigation is inherently unpredictable, and we could incur judgments or enter into settlements for current or future claims that could adversely affect our financial position or our results of operations in any particular period. the levels of our reserves are subject to many uncertainties and may not be adequate to cover writedowns or losses. in addition to reserves at our finance group, we establish reserves in our manufacturing group to cover uncollectible accounts receivable, excess or obsolete inventory, fair market value writedowns on used aircraft and golf cars, recall campaigns, warranty costs and litigation. these reserves are subject to adjustment from time to time depending on actual experience and are subject to many uncertainties, including bankruptcy or other financial problems at key customers. in the case of litigation matters for which reserves have not been established because the loss is not deemed probable, it is reasonably possible such matters could be decided against us and could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures in amounts that are not presently estimable. the effect on our financial results of many of these factors depends in some cases on our ability to obtain insurance covering potential losses at reasonable rates. currency, raw material price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. in some cases, we purchase derivatives or enter into contracts to insulate our financial results of operations from these fluctuations. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates can have substantial adverse effects on our financial results of operations. the increasing costs of certain employee and retiree benefits could adversely affect our results. our earnings and cash flow may be impacted by the amount of income or expense we expend or record for employee benefit plans. this is particularly true for our pension plans, which are dependent on actual plan asset returns and factors used to determine the value and current costs of plan benefit obligations. in addition, medical costs are rising at a rate faster than the general inflation rate. continued medical cost inflation in excess of the general inflation rate increases the risk that we will not be able to mitigate the rising costs of medical benefits. increases to the costs of pension and medical benefits could have an adverse effect on our financial results of operations. unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in both the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among these different jurisdictions. our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or in tax laws, which could affect our profitability. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a tax authority could affect our profitability. 8 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 30 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risks our financial results are affected by changes in u.s. and foreign interest rates. as part of managing this risk, we enter into interest rate exchange agreements to convert certain floating-rate debt to fixed-rate debt and vice versa. the overall objective of our interest rate risk management is to achieve a prudent balance between floating- and fixed-rate debt. we continually monitor our mix of floating- and fixed-rate debt and adjust the mix, as necessary, based on our evaluation of internal and external factors. the difference between the rates our manufacturing group received and the rates it paid on interest rate exchange agreements did not significantly impact interest expense in 2006, 2005 or 2004. our finance group limits its risk to changes in interest rates with its strategy of matching floating-rate assets with floating-rate liabilities. this strategy includes the use of interest rate exchange agreements. at december 30, 2006, floating-rate liabilities in excess of floating-rate assets were $431 million, net of $2.9 billion of interest rate exchange agreements that effectively converted fixed-rate debt to a floating-rate equivalent, and $46 million of interest rate exchange agreements that effectively converted fixed-rate finance receivables to a floating-rate equivalent. interest rate exchange agreements designated as hedges of debt had the net effect of increasing interest expense for our finance group by $27 million in 2006 and decreasing interest expense by $11 million and $40 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively. foreign exchange risks our financial results are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates and economic conditions in the foreign markets in which products are manufactured and/or sold. for 2006, the impact of foreign exchange rate changes from 2005 increased revenues by approximately $11 million (0.1%) and increased segment profit by approximately $2 million (0.2%). for our manufacturing operations, we manage exposures to foreign currency assets and earnings primarily by funding certain foreign currency denominated assets with liabilities in the same currency so that certain exposures are naturally offset. we primarily use borrowings denominated in euro and british pound sterling for these purposes. in managing its foreign currency transaction exposures, we also enter into foreign currency forward exchange and option contracts. these contracts generally are used to fix the local currency cost of purchased goods or services or selling prices denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. the notional amount of outstanding foreign exchange contracts, foreign currency options and currency swaps was approximately $765 million at the end of 2006 and $699 million at the end of 2005. 30 quantitative risk measures in the normal course of business, we enter into financial instruments for purposes other than trading. to quantify the market risk inherent in our financial instruments, we utilize a sensitivity analysis. the financial instruments that are subject to market risk (interest rate risk, foreign exchange rate risk and equity price risk) include finance receivables (excluding lease receivables), debt (excluding lease obligations), interest rate exchange agreements, foreign currency exchange contracts and marketable security price forward contracts. presented below is a sensitivity analysis of the fair value of financial instruments outstanding at year-end. we estimate the fair value of the financial instruments using discounted cash flow analysis and independent investment bankers. this sensitivity analysis is most likely not indicative of actual results in the future. the following table illustrates the sensitivity to a hypothetical change in the fair value of the financial instruments assuming a 10% decrease in interest rates, a 10% strengthening in exchange rates against the u.s. dollar and a 10% decrease in the quoted market price of the marketable equity security. 2006 2005 sensitivity of sensitivity of fair value fair value carrying fair to a 10% carrying fair to a 10% (in millions) value* value* change value* value* change interest rate risk manufacturing group: debt $ (1,800 ) $ (1,833 ) $ (36 ) $ (1,934 ) $ (2,012 ) $ (36 ) interest rate exchanges (8 ) (8 ) 2 (10 ) (10 ) 3 finance group: finance receivables 7,019 6,982 27 5,589 5,515 32 interest rate exchanges receivables 1 1 1 8 8 3 debt (6,862 ) (6,868 ) (82 ) (5,420 ) (5,423 ) (92 ) interest rate exchanges debt (52 ) (52 ) 31 (47 ) (47 ) 32 foreign exchange rate risk manufacturing group: debt (741 ) (756 ) (76 ) (932 ) (974 ) (97 ) foreign currency exchange contracts 12 12 58 23 23 56 equity price risk manufacturing group: marketable security price forward contracts 24 24 (14 ) 10 10 (13 ) * the value represents an asset or (liability). forward-looking information certain statements in this annual report on form 10-k and other oral and written statements made by textron from time to time are forward-looking statements, including those that discuss strategies, goals, outlook or other non-historical matters; or project revenues, income, returns or other financial measures. these forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the statements, including the following: [a] changes in worldwide economic and political conditions that impact demand for our products, interest rates and foreign exchange rates; [b] the interruption of production at textron facilities or textron customers or suppliers; [c] textron ability to perform as anticipated and to control costs under contracts with the u.s. government; [d] the u.s. government ability to unilaterally modify or terminate its contracts with textron for the u.s. government convenience or for textron failure to perform, to change applicable procurement and accounting policies, and, under certain circumstances, to suspend or debar textron as a contractor eligible to receive future contract awards; [e] changes in national or international funding priorities and government policies on the export and import of military and commercial products; [f] the ability to control costs and successful implementation of various cost-reduction programs; [g] the timing of new product launches and certifications of new aircraft products; [h] the occurrence of slowdowns or downturns in customer markets in which textron products are sold or supplied or where textron financial corporation offers financing; [i] changes in aircraft 31 delivery schedules or cancellation of orders; [j] the impact of changes in tax legislation; [k] the extent to which textron is able to pass raw material price increases through to customers or offset such price increases by reducing other costs; [l] textron ability to offset, through cost reductions, pricing pressure brought by original equipment manufacturer customers; [m] textron ability to realize full value of receivables; [n] the availability and cost of insurance; [o] increases in pension expenses and other postretirement employee costs; [p] textron financial corporation ability to maintain portfolio credit quality; [q] textron financial corporation access to debt financing at competitive rates; [r] uncertainty in estimating contingent liabilities and establishing reserves to address such contingencies; [s] performance of acquisitions; [t] the efficacy of research and development investments to develop new products; [u] the launching of significant new products or programs which could result in unanticipated expenses; and [v] bankruptcy or other financial problems at major suppliers or customers that could cause disruptions in textron supply chain or difficulty in collecting amounts owed by such customers. further information on risks and uncertainties that may impact forward-looking statements is discussed under risk factors on pages 6 through 8 of this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. the risks discussed below are those that we believe currently are the most significant, although additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem less significant also may impact our business, financial condition or results of operations, perhaps materially. we have customer concentration with the u.s. government. during 2007, we derived approximately 19% of our revenues from sales to a variety of u.s. government entities. our u.s. government revenues have continued to grow both organically and through acquisitions, such as our recent acquisition of uic. our ability to compete successfully for and retain u.s. government business is highly dependent on technical excellence, management proficiency, strategic alliances, cost-effective performance, and the ability to recruit and retain key personnel. our revenues from the u.s. government largely result from contracts awarded to us under various u.s. government programs, primarily defense-related programs. the funding of these programs is subject to congressional appropriation decisions. although multiple-year contracts may be planned in connection with major procurements, congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may continue for several years. consequently, programs often are only partially funded initially, and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. the reduction or termination of funding, or changes in the timing of funding, for a u.s. government program in which we provide products or services would result in a reduction or loss of anticipated future revenues attributable to that program, and could have a negative impact on our results of operations. while the overall level of u.s. defense spending has increased in recent years for numerous reasons, including increases in funding of operations in iraq and afghanistan and the u.s. department of defense military transformation initiatives, we can give no assurance that such spending will continue to grow or not be reduced. significant changes in national and international priorities for defense spending could impact the funding, or the time of funding, of our programs, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. u.s. government contracts may be terminated at any time and may contain other unfavorable provisions. the u.s. government typically can terminate or modify any of its contracts with us either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. a termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. if any of our contracts are terminated by the u.s. government, our backlog would be reduced, in accordance with contract terms, by the expected value of the remaining work under such contracts, and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, 7 on those contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our products and services as a subcontractor. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations. we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of u.s. government contracts. these laws and regulations, among other things, require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiation, define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based u.s. government contracts and restrict the use and dissemination of classified information and the exportation of certain products and technical data. our u.s. government contracts contain provisions that allow the u.s. government to unilaterally suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations, reduce the value of existing contracts, issue modifications to a contract and control and potentially prohibit the export of our products, services and associated materials. a violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties or the termination of our contracts and, under certain circumstances, suspension or debarment from future contracts for a period of time. these laws and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. cost overruns on u.s. government contracts could subject us to losses or adversely affect our future business. contract and program accounting require judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating sales and profit rates and are recorded when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance. estimates of award fees also are used in estimating sales and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. because of the significance of these estimates, it is likely that different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future financial results of operations. under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur, and, consequently, any costs in excess of the fixed price are absorbed by us. under time and materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. under cost reimbursement contracts, which are subject to a contract-ceiling amount, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based. however, if our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs. under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs we incur in performing under the contract, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. cost overruns also may adversely affect our ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards. delays in aircraft delivery schedules or cancellation of orders may adversely affect our financial results. aircraft customers, including sellers of fractional share interests, may respond to weak economic conditions by delaying delivery of orders or canceling orders. weakness in the economy may result in fewer hours flown on existing aircraft and, consequently, lower demand for spare parts and maintenance. weak economic conditions also may cause reduced demand for used business jets or helicopters. we may accept used aircraft on trade-in that would be subject to fluctuations in the fair market value of the aircraft while in inventory. reduced demand for new and used aircraft, spare parts and maintenance can have an adverse effect on our financial results of operations. developing new products and technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties. delays or cost overruns in the development and acceptance of new products, or certification of new aircraft products and other products, could affect our financial results of operations. these delays could be caused by unanticipated technological hurdles, production changes to meet customer demands, unanticipated difficulties in obtaining required regulatory certifications of new aircraft products, coordination with joint venture partners or failure on the part of our suppliers to deliver components as agreed. we also could be adversely affected if the general efficacy of our research and development investments to develop products is less than expected. furthermore, because of the lengthy research and development cycle involved in bringing certain of our products to market, we cannot predict the economic conditions that will exist when any new product is complete. a reduction in capital spending in the aerospace or defense industries could have a significant effect on the demand for new products and technologies under development, which could have an adverse effect on our financial performance or results of operations. 8 we have entered, and expect to continue to enter, into joint venture, teaming and other arrangements, and these activities involve risks and uncertainties. we have entered, and expect to continue to enter, into joint venture, teaming and other arrangements, and these activities involve risks and uncertainties, including the risk of the joint venture or related business partner failing to satisfy its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments, the challenges in achieving strategic objectives and expected benefits of the business arrangement, the risk of conflicts arising between us and our partners and the difficulty of managing and resolving such conflicts, and the difficulty of managing or otherwise monitoring such business arrangements. we may make acquisitions and dispositions that increase the risks of our business. we may enter into acquisitions or dispositions in the future in an effort to enhance shareholder value. acquisitions or dispositions involve a certain amount of risks and uncertainties that could result in our not achieving expected benefits. with respect to acquisitions, such risks include difficulties in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner; challenges in achieving expected strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits; the risk that the acquired businesses markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; the risk that we pay a purchase price that exceeds what the future results of operations would have merited; and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses. with respect to dispositions, the decision to dispose of a business or asset may result in a writedown of the related assets if the fair market value of the assets, less costs of disposal, is less than the book value. in addition, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies at acceptable prices and terms and in a timely manner. we may also underestimate the costs of retained liabilities or indemnification obligations. in addition, unanticipated delays or difficulties in effecting acquisitions or dispositions may divert the attention of our management and resources from our existing operations. our operations could be adversely affected by interruptions of production that are beyond our control. our business and financial results may be affected by certain events that we cannot anticipate or that are beyond our control, such as natural disasters and national emergencies that could curtail production at our facilities and cause delayed deliveries and canceled orders. in addition, we purchase components and raw materials and information technology and other services from numerous suppliers, and, even if our facilities are not directly affected by such events, we could be affected by interruptions at such suppliers. such suppliers may be less likely than our own facilities to be able to quickly recover from such events and may be subject to additional risks such as financial problems that limit their ability to conduct their operations. our business could be adversely affected by strikes or work stoppages and other labor issues. approximately 14,000 of our employees, or 32% of our total employees, are unionized. as a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, resulting in strain on our relationships with our customers and a loss of revenues. in addition, the presence of unions may limit our flexibility in responding to competitive pressures in the marketplace, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results of operations. in addition to our workforce, the workforces of many of our customers and suppliers are represented by labor unions. work stoppages or strikes at the plants of our key customers could result in delayed or canceled orders for our products. work stoppages and strikes at the plants of our key suppliers could disrupt our manufacturing processes. any of these results could adversely affect our financial results of operations. our international business is subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries. our international business exposes us to certain unique and potentially greater risks than our domestic business, and our exposure to such risks may increase if our international business continues to grow. our international business is subject to local government regulations and procurement policies and practices, including regulations relating to import-export control, investments, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings or cash settlement challenges, as well as to varying currency, geopolitical and economic risks. we also are exposed to risks associated with using foreign representatives and consultants for international sales and operations and teaming with international subcontractors and suppliers in connection with international programs. our finance borrowing group business is dependent on its continuing access to the capital markets. our financings are conducted through two borrowing groups: finance and manufacturing. our finance group consists of textron financial corporation and its subsidiaries, which are the entities through which we operate in the finance segment. our finance group relies on its access to the capital markets to fund asset growth, fund operations, and meet debt obligations and other commitments. this group raises funds through 9 commercial paper borrowings, issuances of medium-term notes and other term debt securities, and syndication and securitization of receivables. additional liquidity is provided to our finance group through bank lines of credit. much of the capital markets funding is made possible by the maintenance of credit ratings that are acceptable to investors. if the credit ratings of our finance group were to be lowered, it might face higher borrowing costs, a disruption of its access to the capital markets or both. our finance group also could lose access to financing for other reasons, such as a general disruption of the capital markets. any disruption of our finance group access to the capital markets could adversely affect its business and our profitability. if our finance group is unable to maintain portfolio credit quality, our financial performance could be adversely affected. a key determinant of financial performance of our finance group is its ability to maintain the quality of loans, leases and other credit products in its finance asset portfolios. portfolio quality may adversely be affected by several factors, including finance receivable underwriting procedures, collateral quality, geographic or industry concentrations, or general economic downturns. any inability by our finance group to successfully collect its finance receivable portfolio and to resolve problem accounts may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition. we are subject to legal proceedings and other claims. we are subject to legal proceedings and other claims arising out of the conduct of our business, including proceedings and claims relating to private transactions; government contracts; lack of compliance with applicable laws and regulations; production partners; product liability; employment; and environmental, safety and health matters. under federal government procurement regulations, certain claims brought by the u.s. government could result in our being suspended or debarred from u.s. government contracting for a period of time. on the basis of information presently available, we do not believe that existing proceedings and claims will have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. however, litigation is inherently unpredictable, and we could incur judgments or enter into settlements for current or future claims that could adversely affect our financial position or our results of operations in any particular period. the levels of our reserves are subject to many uncertainties and may not be adequate to cover writedowns or losses. in addition to reserves at our finance group, we establish reserves in our manufacturing group to cover uncollectible accounts receivable, excess or obsolete inventory, fair market value writedowns on used aircraft and golf cars, recall campaigns, warranty costs and litigation. these reserves are subject to adjustment from time to time depending on actual experience and are subject to many uncertainties, including bankruptcy or other financial problems at key customers. in the case of litigation matters for which reserves have not been established because the loss is not deemed probable, it is reasonably possible such matters could be decided against us and could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures in amounts that are not presently estimable. the effect on our financial results of many of these factors depends, in some cases, on our ability to obtain insurance covering potential losses at reasonable rates. currency, raw material price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. in some cases, we purchase derivatives or enter into contracts to insulate our financial results of operations from these fluctuations. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates can have substantial adverse effects on our financial results of operations. we may be unable to effectively mitigate pricing pressures. in some markets, particularly where we deliver component products and services to original equipment manufacturers, we face ongoing customer demands for price reductions, which sometimes are contractually obligated. in some cases, we are able to offset these reductions through technological advances or by lowering our cost base through improved operating and supply chain efficiencies. however, if we are unable to effectively mitigate future pricing pressures, our financial results of operations could be adversely affected. failure to perform by our subcontractors or suppliers could adversely affect our performance. we rely on other companies to provide raw materials, major components and subsystems for our products. subcontractors also perform services that we provide to our customers in certain circumstances. we depend on these subcontractors and vendors to meet our contractual obligations to our customers. our ability to meet our obligations to our customers may be adversely affected if suppliers do not provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services in compliance with customer requirements and in a timely and cost-effective manner. such events 10 may adversely affect our financial results of operations or damage our reputation and relationships with our customers. the risk of these adverse effects may be greater in circumstances where we rely on only one or two subcontractors or suppliers for a particular product or service. the increasing costs of certain employee and retiree benefits could adversely affect our results. our earnings and cash flow may be impacted by the amount of income or expense we expend or record for employee benefit plans. this is particularly true for our pension plans, which are dependent on actual plan asset returns and factors used to determine the value and current costs of plan benefit obligations. in addition, medical costs are rising at a rate faster than the general inflation rate. continued medical cost inflation in excess of the general inflation rate increases the risk that we will not be able to mitigate the rising costs of medical benefits. increases to the costs of pension and medical benefits could have an adverse effect on our financial results of operations. unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in both the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among these different jurisdictions. our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws, which could affect our profitability. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a tax authority could affect our profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risks our financial results are affected by changes in u.s. and foreign interest rates. as part of managing this risk, we enter into interest rate exchange agreements to convert certain floating-rate debt to fixed-rate debt and vice versa. the overall objective of our interest rate risk management is to achieve a prudent balance between floating- and fixed-rate debt. we continually monitor our mix of floating- and fixed-rate debt and adjust the mix, as necessary, based on our evaluation of internal and external factors. the difference between the rates our manufacturing group received and the rates it paid on interest rate exchange agreements did not significantly impact interest expense in 2007, 2006 or 2005. our finance group limits its risk to changes in interest rates with its strategy of matching floating-rate assets with floating-rate liabilities. this strategy includes the use of interest rate exchange agreements. at december 29, 2007, floating-rate liabilities in excess of floating-rate assets were $51 million, net of $2.3 billion of interest rate exchange agreements, which effectively converted fixed-rate debt to a floating-rate equivalent. interest rate exchange agreements designated as hedges of debt had the net effect of increasing interest expense for our finance group by $25 million in 2007 and $27 million in 2006, and decreasing interest expense by $11 million in 2005. foreign exchange risks our financial results are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates and economic conditions in the foreign markets in which products are manufactured and/or sold. for 2007, the impact of foreign exchange rate changes from 2006 increased revenues by approximately $148 million (1.3%) and increased segment profit by approximately $12 million (0.9%). for our manufacturing operations, we manage exposures to foreign currency assets and earnings primarily by funding certain foreign currency denominated assets with liabilities in the same currency so that certain exposures are naturally offset. we primarily use borrowings denominated in euro and british pound sterling for these purposes. in managing its foreign currency transaction exposures, we also enter into foreign currency forward exchange and option contracts. these contracts generally are used to fix the local currency cost of purchased goods or services or selling prices denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. the notional amount of outstanding foreign exchange contracts and foreign currency options was approximately $1.2 billion at the end of 2007 and $765 million at the end of 2006. quantitative risk measures in the normal course of business, we enter into financial instruments for purposes other than trading. to quantify the market risk inherent in our financial instruments, we utilize a sensitivity analysis. the financial instruments that are subject to market risk (interest rate risk, foreign exchange rate risk and equity price risk) include finance receivables (excluding lease receivables), debt (excluding lease obligations), interest rate exchange agreements, foreign currency exchange contracts and marketable security price forward contracts. presented below is a sensitivity analysis of the fair value of financial instruments outstanding at year-end. we estimate the fair value of the financial instruments using discounted cash flow analysis and indicative market pricing as reported by leading financial news and data providers. this sensitivity analysis is most likely not indicative of actual results in the future. the following table illustrates the sensitivity to a hypothetical change in the fair value of the financial instruments assuming a 10% decrease in interest rates, a 10% strengthening in exchange rates against the u.s. dollar and a 10% decrease in the quoted market price of the marketable equity security. 33 2007 2006 sensitivity of sensitivity of fair value fair value carrying fair to a 10% carrying fair to a 10% (in millions) value* value* change value* value* change interest rate risk manufacturing group: debt $ (2,148 ) $ (2,170 ) $ (37 ) $ (1,800 ) $ (1,833 ) $ (36 ) interest rate exchanges (8 ) (8 ) 2 finance group: finance receivables 7,364 7,378 33 7,019 6,982 27 debt (7,311 ) (7,288 ) (80 ) (6,862 ) (6,868 ) (82 ) interest rate exchanges debt 19 19 18 (52 ) (52 ) 31 foreign exchange rate risk manufacturing group: debt (778 ) (776 ) (78 ) (741 ) (756 ) (76 ) foreign currency exchange contracts 52 52 76 12 12 58 equity price risk manufacturing group: marketable security price forward contracts 62 62 (18 ) 24 24 (14 ) * the value represents an asset or (liability).risk factors our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. the risks discussed below are those that we believe currently are the most significant to our business. we have customer concentration with the u.s. government; reduction in u.s. government defense spending may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. during 2012, we derived approximately 29% of our revenues from sales to a variety of u.s. government entities. our revenues from the u.s. government largely result from contracts awarded to us under various u.s. government defense-related programs. the funding of these programs is subject to congressional appropriation decisions. although multiple-year contracts may be planned in connection with major procurements, congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may continue for several years. consequently, programs often are only partially funded initially, and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. if we incur costs in excess of funds committed on a contract, we are more at risk for non-reimbursement of those costs until additional funds are appropriated. the reduction or termination of funding, or changes in the timing of funding, for u.s. government programs in which we currently provide, or propose to provide, products or services would result in a reduction or loss of anticipated future revenues and could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. significant changes in national and international priorities for defense spending could impact the funding, or the timing of funding, of our programs, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. mounting pressure for u.s. government deficit reduction and reduced national spending have created an environment where national security spending is being closely examined. in august 2011, congress passed the budget control act of 2011 which committed the u.s. government to significantly reduce the federal deficit over ten years. under this act, very substantial automatic spending cuts, known as sequestration, including approximately $600 billion in cuts to the u.s. defense budget over a nine year period, are scheduled to be triggered beginning in 2013. in addition, the nation debt ceiling is currently expected to be reached during the first half of 2013. congress and the administration continue to debate how the nation should proceed on these issues. the outcome of that debate could have a significant impact on future defense spending plans. as a result, long-term funding for various programs in which we participate, as well as future purchasing decisions by our u.s. government customers, could be reduced, delayed or cancelled. in addition, these cuts could adversely affect the viability of the suppliers and subcontractors under our programs. there are many variables in how the sequester could be implemented that make it difficult to determine specific impacts; however, we expect that sequestration, as currently provided for under the budget control act, would result in lower revenues, profits and cash flows for our company. such circumstances may also result in an impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets. because our government contracts generally require us to continue to perform even if the u.s. government is unable to make timely payments; if the debt ceiling is not raised, and, as a result, the u.s. government does not pay us on a timely basis, we would need to finance our continued performance of the impacted contracts from our available cash resources, credit facilities and/or access to the capital markets, if available. an extended delay in the timely payment by the u.s. government could result in a material adverse effect on our cash flows, earnings and financial condition. u.s. government contracts may be terminated at any time and may contain other unfavorable provisions. the u.s. government typically can terminate or modify any of its contracts with us either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. in the event of termination for the u.s. government convenience, contractors are generally protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contracts and profit on those costs but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. a termination arising out of our default for failure to perform could expose us to liability, including but not limited to, liability for re-procurement costs in excess 9 table of contents of the total original contract amount, net of the value of work performed and accepted by the customer under the contract. such an event could also have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. if any of our contracts are terminated by the u.s. government whether for convenience or default, our backlog and anticipated revenues would be reduced by the expected value of the remaining work under such contracts. we also enter into fee for service contracts with the u.s. government where we retain ownership of, and consequently the risk of loss on, aircraft and equipment supplied to perform under these contracts. termination of these contracts for convenience or default could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. on contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our products and services as a subcontractor. in addition, u.s. government contracts generally require the contractor to continue to perform on a contract even if the u.s. government is unable to make timely payments; failure to continue contract performance places the contractor at risk of termination for default. any such event could result in a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to procurement rules and regulations as well as changes in the department of defense (dod) acquisition practices. we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of u.s. government contracts. these laws and regulations, among other things, require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiation, define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based u.s. government contracts, and restrict the use and dissemination of classified information and the exportation of certain products and technical data. our u.s. government contracts contain provisions that allow the u.s. government to unilaterally suspend or debar us from receiving new contracts for a period of time, reduce the value of existing contracts, issue modifications to a contract, and control and potentially prohibit the export of our products, services and associated materials. a number of our u.s. government contracts contain provisions that require us to make disclosure to the inspector general of the agency that is our customer if we have credible evidence that we have violated u.s. criminal laws involving fraud, conflict of interest, or bribery; the u.s. civil false claims act; or received a significant overpayment under a u.s. government contract. failure to properly and timely disclose may result in a termination for default or cause, suspension and/or debarment, and potential fines. in 2010, the dod issued guidance to its acquisition workforce to obtain greater efficiency and productivity in defense spending through an initiative known as the better buying power initiative. the dod has announced that an updated initiative, to be known as better buying power 2.0 will be launched in early 2013. these efforts may significantly affect the contracting environment in which we do business with our dod customers and could have a significant impact on current programs, as well as new business opportunities. changes to the dod acquisition system and contracting models could affect whether and, if so, how we pursue certain opportunities and the terms under which we are able to do so. as a u.s. government contractor, our businesses and systems are subject to audit and review by the defense contract audit agency (dcaa) and the defense contract management agency (dcma). we operate in a highly regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the u.s. government and its agencies such as dcaa and dcma. these agencies review our performance under our contracts, our cost structure and our compliance with laws and regulations applicable to u.s. government contractors. the systems that are subject to review include, but are not limited to, our accounting, estimating, material management and accounting, earned value management, purchasing and government property systems. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions that may include the termination of our contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and, under certain circumstances, suspension or debarment from future contracts for a period of time. whether or not illegal activities are alleged, the u.s. government also has the ability to decrease or withhold certain payments when it deems systems subject to its review to be inadequate. these laws and regulations affect how we conduct business with our customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. cost overruns on u.s. government contracts could subject us to losses or adversely affect our future business. under fixed-price contracts, as a general rule, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur, and, consequently, any costs in excess of the fixed price are absorbed by us. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates used in developing the pricing for such contracts may adversely affect our results of operations. under time and materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. under cost-reimbursement contracts, which are subject to a contract-ceiling amount, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based. however, if our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs. under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs we incur in performing under the contract, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. cost overruns also may adversely affect our ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards. 10 table of contents weak demand for our aircraft products may continue to adversely affect our financial results. as a result of the continued worldwide economic softness, we have experienced continued weak demand for our fixed-wing aircraft, particularly our business jets. soft demand for new and pre-owned jets could persist and could continue to adversely impact the pricing of new jets and the valuation of pre-owned jets. we have accepted a higher proportion of trade-ins of pre-owned jets in order to sell new jets, and we are winding down our fractional business jet ownership business. these two factors have increased our inventory of pre-owned jets. concerns regarding the financial stability of certain eurozone countries, the overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a single currency may have an adverse impact on financial institutions and capital markets in europe and globally which could impede the ability of our customers to obtain financing to purchase our jets and helicopters and further reduce demand for our products. in addition, both u.s. and foreign governments and government agencies regulate the aviation industry; they may impose new regulations with additional aircraft security or other requirements or restrictions, including, for example, restrictions and/or fees related to carbon emissions levels that may adversely impact demand for jets and/or helicopters. a prolonged weakness in the markets for our commercial aircraft products could adversely impact our results of operations and our future prospects. difficult economic conditions could continue to affect the performance of our finance segment and our losses may increase if we are unable to successfully collect our finance receivables or realize sufficient value from collateral. the financial performance of our finance segment depends on the quality of loans, leases and other assets in its finance asset portfolios. portfolio quality may be adversely affected by several factors, including finance receivable underwriting procedures, collateral value, geographic or industry concentrations, and the effect of general economic conditions on our customers businesses. the performance of our liquidating non-captive finance receivable portfolios may be adversely affected by other variables, including changes in our liquidation strategy and changes in external factors affecting the value and/or marketability of our assets. valuations of the types of collateral securing our captive finance portfolio, particularly valuations of pre-owned aircraft, have decreased over the past several years and may continue to decrease if weak economic conditions continue. declining collateral values could result in greater delinquencies, credit losses and foreclosures if customers elect to discontinue payments on loan balances that exceed asset values or, in the case of assets in our liquidating portfolios, if they are unable to obtain alternative sources of financing at loan maturity. bankruptcy proceedings involving our borrowers may prevent or delay our ability to exercise our rights and remedies and realize the full value of our collateral. significant delay or difficulty in executing the continued liquidation of our liquidating portfolios and/or substantial losses in any of our finance asset portfolios could negatively impact the ability of our finance segment to generate the cash necessary to service its debt, resulting in adverse effects on our cash flow, profitability and financial condition. we may need to obtain financing in the future; such financing may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all. we may periodically need to obtain financing in order to meet our debt obligations as they come due and/or to support our operations. although we currently have access to the capital markets, our access and the cost of borrowings, is affected by a number of factors including market conditions and the strength of our credit ratings. if we cannot obtain adequate sources of credit on favorable terms, or at all, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. our ability to fund our captive financing activities at economically competitive levels depends on our ability to borrow and the cost of borrowing in the credit markets. our finance segment ability to continue to offer customer financing for the products that we manufacture, and the long-term viability and profitability of the captive finance business, is largely dependent on our ability to obtain funding and at a reasonable cost both of which are dependent on a number of factors including market conditions and our credit ratings. if we are unable to continue to offer customer financing or if we are unable to offer competitive customer financing, it could negatively impact our manufacturing group ability to generate sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. failure to perform by our subcontractors or suppliers could adversely affect our performance. we rely on other companies to provide raw materials, major components and subsystems for our products. subcontractors also perform services that we provide to our customers in certain circumstances. we depend on these suppliers and subcontractors to meet our contractual obligations to our customers and conduct our operations. our ability to meet our obligations to our customers may be adversely affected if suppliers or subcontractors do not provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services in compliance with customer requirements and in a timely and cost-effective manner. likewise, the quality of our products may be adversely impacted if companies to whom we delegate manufacture of major components or subsystems for our products, or from whom we acquire such items, do not provide components or subsystems which meet required specifications and perform to our and our customers expectations. our suppliers may be less likely than us to be able to quickly recover from natural disasters and other events beyond their control and may be subject to additional risks such as financial problems that limit their ability to conduct their operations. the risk of these adverse effects may be greater in circumstances where we rely on only one or two subcontractors or suppliers for a particular raw material, 11 table of contents product or service. in particular, in the aircraft industry, most vendor parts are certified by the regulatory agencies as part of the overall type certificate for the aircraft being produced by the manufacturer. if a vendor does not or cannot supply its parts, then the manufacturer production line may be stopped until the manufacturer can design, manufacture and certify a similar part itself or identify and certify another similar vendor part, resulting in significant delays in the completion of aircraft. such events may adversely affect our financial results, damage our reputation and relationships with our customers, and result in regulatory actions and/or litigation. our business could be negatively impacted by information technology security threats and other disruptions. as a u.s. defense contractor, we face certain security threats, including threats to our information technology infrastructure, unlawful attempts to gain access to our proprietary or classified information and threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, as do our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and joint venture partners. our information technology networks and related systems are critical to the smooth operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day to day operations. cybersecurity threats, such as malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to information, and other security breaches, are persistent, continue to evolve and require highly skilled it resources. an information technology system failure or breach of data security could disrupt our operations, cause the loss of business information or the compromise of confidential information and require significant management attention and resources. the potential consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include reputational damage, litigation with third parties, diminution in the value of our investment in research, development and engineering and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs, which in turn could adversely affect our competitiveness and our results of operations. in addition, we outsource certain support functions, including certain global information technology infrastructure services, to third-party service providers. any disruption of such outsourced processes or functions also could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. developing new products and technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties. to continue to grow our revenues and segment profit, we must successfully develop new products and technologies or modify our existing products and technologies for our current and future markets. our future performance depends, in part, on our ability to identify emerging technological trends and customer requirements in our current and future markets and to develop and maintain competitive products and services. delays or cost overruns in the development and acceptance of new products, or certification of new aircraft and other products, could affect our results of operations. these delays could be caused by unanticipated technological hurdles, production changes to meet customer demands, unanticipated difficulties in obtaining required regulatory certifications of new aircraft or other products, coordination with joint venture partners or failure on the part of our suppliers to deliver components as agreed. changes in environmental laws and regulations, for example, those enacted in response to climate change concerns and other actions known as green initiatives, could lead to the necessity for new or additional investment in product designs or manufacturing processes and could increase environmental compliance expenditures, including costs to defend regulatory reviews. we also could be adversely affected if the general efficacy of our research and development investments to develop products is less than expected or if we do not adequately protect the intellectual property developed through our research and development efforts. likewise, new products and technologies could generate unanticipated safety or other concerns resulting in expanded product liability risks, potential product recalls and other regulatory issues that could have an adverse impact on us. furthermore, because of the lengthy research and development cycle involved in bringing certain of our products to market, we cannot predict the economic conditions that will exist when any new product is complete. a reduction in capital spending in the aerospace or defense industries could have a significant effect on the demand for new products and technologies under development, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the market for our product offerings may not develop or continue to expand as we currently anticipate. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing technologies which gain market acceptance in advance of our products. a significant failure in our new product development efforts or the failure of our products or services to achieve market acceptance more rapidly than our competitors could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries. our international business, including u.s. exports, exposes us to potentially greater risks than our domestic business. our exposure to such risks increases as our international business continues to grow. our international business is subject to u.s. and local government regulations and procurement policies and practices, which may change from time to time, including regulations relating to import-export control; environmental, health and safety; investments; exchange controls; and repatriation of earnings or cash settlement challenges, as well as to varying currency, geopolitical and economic risks. these international risks may be especially significant with respect to aerospace and defense products for which we sometimes first must obtain licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before we are permitted to sell our products outside the u.s. any significant impairment of our ability to sell products outside the u.s. could negatively impact our results of operations. additionally, some international government customers require contractors to agree to specific in-country purchases, manufacturing agreements or financial support arrangements, known as offsets, as a condition for a contract award. the contracts 12 table of contents generally extend over several years and may include penalties if we fail to meet the offset requirements, which could adversely impact our results of operations. additionally, we are facing increasing competition in our international markets from foreign and multinational firms that may have certain home country advantages over us; as a result, our ability to compete successfully in those markets may be adversely affected, which could negatively impact our revenues and profitability. we maintain manufacturing facilities, service centers, supply centers and other facilities worldwide, including in various emerging market countries. we also have entered into, and expect to continue to enter into, joint venture arrangements in emerging market countries, some of which may require capital investment, guaranties or other commitments. we expect that our investment in emerging market countries will continue to increase. emerging market operations can present many risks in addition to those discussed above, including civil disturbances, economic and government instability, terrorism and related safety concerns, cultural differences in employment and business practices, difficulties in protecting intellectual property, and the imposition of exchange controls. the impact of any one or more of these or other factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. we also are exposed to risks associated with using foreign representatives and consultants for international sales and operations and teaming with international subcontractors and suppliers in connection with international programs. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act. although we implement policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, a violation of such laws by any of our international representatives, consultants, joint ventures, business partners, subcontractors or suppliers, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. we are subject to increasing compliance risks that could adversely affect our operating results. as a global business, we are subject to laws and regulations in the u.s. and other countries in which we operate. our increased focus on international sales and global operations requires importing and exporting goods and technology, some of which have military applications subjecting them to more stringent import-export controls across international borders on a regular basis. both u.s. and foreign laws and regulations applicable to us have been increasing in scope and complexity. for example, we could be affected by u.s. or foreign laws or regulations imposed in response to climate change concerns. likewise, pursuant to the requirements of the dodd-frank act and recently enacted securities and exchange commission rules, we will be required to report on our use of conflict minerals originating from the democratic republic of congo and surrounding countries. compliance with these rules is expected to be time-consuming and costly and also could affect the cost and availability of minerals used to manufacture certain of our products. compliance with new or changing laws and regulations or related interpretation and policies could increase our costs of doing business, affect how we conduct our operations and limit our ability to sell our products and services. compliance with laws and regulations of increasing scope and complexity is even more challenging in our current business environment in which reducing our operating costs is often necessary to remain competitive. in addition, a violation of u.s. and/or foreign laws by one of our employees or business partners could subject us or our employees to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions, including denial of import or export privileges and debarment as a government contractor. these improper actions could damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our business. we are subject to legal proceedings and other claims. we are subject to legal proceedings and other claims arising out of the conduct of our business, including proceedings and claims relating to commercial and financial transactions; government contracts; alleged lack of compliance with applicable laws and regulations; production partners; product liability; patent and trademark infringement; employment disputes; and environmental, safety and health matters. due to the nature of our manufacturing business, we may be subject to liability claims arising from accidents involving our products, including claims for serious personal injuries or death caused by weather or by pilot, driver or user error. in the case of litigation matters for which reserves have not been established because the loss is not deemed probable, it is reasonably possible that such claims could be decided against us and could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures in amounts that are not presently estimable. in addition, we cannot be certain that our reserves are adequate and that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover one or more substantial claims. furthermore, we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage at acceptable levels and costs in the future. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and we could incur judgments, receive adverse arbitration awards or enter into settlements for current or future claims that could adversely affect our financial position or our results of operations in any particular period. intellectual property infringement claims of others and the inability to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our customers. intellectual property infringement claims may be asserted by third parties against us or our customers. any related indemnification payments or legal costs we may be obliged to pay on behalf of our businesses, our customers or other third parties could be costly. in addition, we own the rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names, trade names and trade secrets that are important to our 13 table of contents business. the inability to enforce these intellectual property rights may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. additionally, our intellectual property could be at risk due to various cyber threats. certain of our products are subject to laws regulating consumer products and could be subject to repurchase or recall as a result of safety issues. as a distributor of consumer products in the u.s., certain of our products also are subject to the consumer product safety act, which empowers the u.s. consumer product safety commission (cpsc) to exclude from the market products that are found to be unsafe or hazardous. under certain circumstances, the cpsc could require us to repair, replace or refund the purchase price of one or more of our products, or potentially even discontinue entire product lines, or we may voluntarily do so, but within strictures recommended by the cpsc. the cpsc also can impose fines or penalties on a manufacturer for non-compliance with its requirements. furthermore, failure to timely notify the cpsc of a potential safety hazard can result in significant fines being assessed against us. any repurchases or recalls of our products or an imposition of fines or penalties could be costly to us and could damage the reputation or the value of our brands. additionally, laws regulating certain consumer products exist in some states, as well as in other countries in which we sell our products, and more restrictive laws and regulations may be adopted in the future. the increasing costs of certain employee and retiree benefits could adversely affect our results. our earnings and cash flow may be adversely impacted by the amount of income or expense we expend or record for employee benefit plans. this is particularly true for our defined benefit pension plans, where required contributions to those plans and related expenses are driven by, among other things, our assumptions of the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate used for future payment obligations and the rates of future cost growth. additionally, as part of our annual evaluation of these plans, significant changes in our assumptions, due to changes in economic, legislative and/or demographic experience or circumstances, or changes in our actual investment returns could negatively impact the funded status of our plans requiring us to substantially increase our pension liability with a resulting decrease in shareholders equity. changes in the funded status of defined benefit pension plans are recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) in the year in which they occur. also, changes in pension legislation and regulations could increase the cost associated with our defined benefit pension plans. in addition, medical costs are rising at a rate faster than the general inflation rate. continued medical cost inflation in excess of the general inflation rate would increase the risk that we will not be able to mitigate the rising costs of medical benefits. moreover, we expect that some of the requirements of the new comprehensive healthcare law will increase our future costs. increases to the costs of pension and medical benefits could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our business could be adversely affected by strikes or work stoppages and other labor issues. approximately 6,400 of our u.s. employees, or 26% of our total u.s. employees, are unionized, and approximately 2,800 of our non-u.s. employees, or 33% of our total non-u.s. employees, are represented by organized councils. as a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, resulting in strain on our relationships with our customers and a loss of revenues. the presence of unions also may limit our flexibility in responding to competitive pressures in the marketplace. in addition, the workforces of many of our suppliers and customers are represented by labor unions. work stoppages or strikes at the plants of our key suppliers could disrupt our manufacturing processes; similar actions at the plants of our customers could result in delayed or canceled orders for our products. any of these events could adversely affect our results of operations. currency, raw material price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates. in particular, the uncertainty with respect to the ability of certain european countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations and the related european financial restructuring efforts may cause the value of the euro to fluctuate. currency variations also contribute to variations in sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. for example, in the event that one or more european countries were to replace the euro with another currency, our sales into such countries, or into europe generally, would likely be adversely affected until stable exchange rates are established. accordingly, fluctuations in foreign currency rates could adversely affect our profitability in future periods. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. in some cases, we purchase derivatives or enter into contracts to insulate our results of operations from these fluctuations. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates can have substantial adverse effects on our results of operations. we may be unable to effectively mitigate pricing pressures. in some markets, particularly where we deliver component products and services to original equipment manufacturers, we face ongoing customer demands for price reductions, which sometimes are contractually obligated. however, if we are unable to effectively mitigate future pricing pressures through technological advances or by lowering our cost base through improved operating and supply chain efficiencies, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 14 table of contents unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in both the u.s. and various non-u.s. jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among these different jurisdictions. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes to unrecognized tax benefits or changes in tax laws, which could affect our profitability. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income, as well as changes to applicable statutory tax rates. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a tax authority could affect our profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risks our financial results are affected by changes in the u.s. and foreign interest rates. as part of managing this risk, we seek to achieve a prudent balance between floating- and fixed-rate exposures. we continually monitor our mix of these exposures and adjust the mix, as necessary. for our finance group, we limit our risk to changes in interest rates for the captive business with a strategy of matching floating-rate assets with floating-rate liabilities, which includes the use of interest rate exchange agreements. foreign exchange risks our financial results are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates in the various countries in which our products are manufactured and/or sold. for our manufacturing operations, we manage exposures to foreign currency assets and earnings primarily by funding certain foreign currency-denominated assets with liabilities in the same currency so that certain exposures are naturally offset. we primarily use borrowings denominated in euro and british pound sterling for these purposes. in managing our foreign currency transaction exposures, we also enter into foreign currency forward exchange and option contracts. these contracts generally are used to fix the local currency cost of purchased goods or services or selling prices denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. the notional amount of outstanding foreign exchange contracts and foreign currency options was approximately $0.7 billion and $0.6 billion at the end of 2012 and 2011, respectively. the impact of foreign exchange rate changes for 2012 and 2011 from the prior year for each period is provided below: (in millions) 2012 2011 impact of foreign exchange rates increased (decreased): revenues $ (80 ) $ 77 segment profit (10 ) 8 quantitative risk measures in the normal course of business, we enter into financial instruments for purposes other than trading. to quantify the market risk inherent in our financial instruments, we utilize a sensitivity analysis. the financial instruments that are subject to market risk (interest rate risk and foreign exchange rate risk) include finance receivables (excluding lease receivables), debt (excluding lease obligations), interest rate exchange agreements and foreign currency exchange contracts. 38 table of contents presented below is a sensitivity analysis of the fair value of financial instruments outstanding at year-end. we estimate the fair value of the financial instruments using discounted cash flow analysis and indicative market pricing as reported by leading financial news and data providers. this sensitivity analysis is most likely not indicative of actual results in the future. the following table illustrates the sensitivity to a hypothetical change in the fair value of the financial instruments assuming a 10% decrease in interest rates and a 10% strengthening in exchange rates against the u.s. dollar: 2012 2011 ( in millions ) carrying value* fair value* sensitivity of fair value to a 10% change carrying value* fair value* sensitivity of fair value to a 10% change manufacturing group foreign exchange rate risk debt $ (564 ) $ (598 ) $ (60 ) $ (543 ) $ (564 ) $ (56 ) foreign currency exchange contracts 6 6 34 5 5 46 $ (558 ) $ (592 ) $ (26 ) $ (538 ) $ (559 ) $ (10 ) interest rate risk debt $ (2,225 ) $ (2,636 ) $ (9 ) $ (2,328 ) $ (2,561 ) $ (14 ) finance group interest rate risk finance receivables $ 1,766 $ 1,793 $ 36 $ 2,415 $ 2,266 $ 90 debt, including intergroup (1,687 ) (1,678 ) (13 ) (2,467 ) (2,347 ) (24 ) $ 79 $ 115 $ 23 $ (52 ) $ (81 ) $ 66 * the value represents an asset or (liability). 39 table of contentsrisk factors our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. the risks discussed below are those that we believe currently are the most significant to our business. we have customer concentration with the u.s. government; reduction in u.s. government defense spending may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. during 2013, we derived approximately 30% of our revenues from sales to a variety of u.s. government entities. our revenues from the u.s. government largely result from contracts awarded to us under various u.s. government defense-related programs. the funding of these programs is subject to congressional appropriation decisions. although multiple-year contracts may be planned in connection with major procurements, congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may continue for several years. consequently, programs often are only partially funded initially, and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. if we incur costs in excess of funds committed on a contract, we are at risk for non-reimbursement of those costs until additional funds are appropriated. the reduction, termination or delay in the timing of funding for u.s. government programs for which we currently provide or propose to provide products or services may result in a loss of anticipated future revenues that could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. significant changes in national and international priorities for defense spending could impact the funding, or the timing of funding, of our programs, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. under the budget control act of 2011, the u.s. government committed to significantly reduce the federal deficit over ten years. notwithstanding the bipartisan budget control act of 2013, substantial spending cuts to the u.s. defense budget are likely in the future. in addition, congress and the administration continue to debate the nation debt ceiling and other fiscal issues. the outcome of that debate could have a significant impact on future defense spending plans. as a result, long-term funding for various programs in which we participate, as well as future purchasing decisions by our u.s. government customers, could be reduced, delayed or cancelled. in addition, these cuts could adversely affect the viability of the suppliers and subcontractors under our programs. there are many variables in how these budget cuts could be implemented that make it difficult to determine specific impacts; however, we expect that sequestration, as currently provided for under the budget control act, would result in lower revenues, profits and cash flows for our company. such circumstances may also result in an impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets. because our government contracts generally require us to continue to perform even if the u.s. government is unable to make timely payments; if the debt ceiling is not raised, and, as a result, the u.s. government does not pay us on a timely basis, we would need to finance our continued performance of the impacted contracts from our available cash resources, credit facilities and/or access to the capital markets, if available. an extended delay in the timely payment by the u.s. government could result in a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. u.s. government contracts may be terminated at any time and may contain other unfavorable provisions. the u.s. government typically can terminate or modify any of its contracts with us either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. in the event of termination for the u.s. government convenience, contractors are generally protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contracts and profit on those costs but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. a termination arising out of our default for failure to perform could expose us to liability, including but not limited to, liability for re-procurement costs in excess of the total original contract amount, net of the value of work performed and accepted by the customer under the contract. such an event could also have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. if any of our contracts are terminated by the u.s. government whether for convenience or default, our backlog and anticipated revenues would be reduced by the expected value of the remaining work under such contracts. we also enter into fee for service contracts with the u.s. 9 government where we retain ownership of, and consequently the risk of loss on, aircraft and equipment supplied to perform under these contracts. termination of these contracts for convenience or default could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. on contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our products and services as a subcontractor. in addition, in the event that the u.s. government is unable to make timely payments, failure to continue contract performance places the contractor at risk of termination for default. any such event could result in a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to procurement rules and regulations as well as changes in the department of defense (dod) acquisition practices. we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of u.s. government contracts. these laws and regulations, among other things, require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiation, define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based u.s. government contracts, and restrict the use and dissemination of classified information and the exportation of certain products and technical data. our u.s. government contracts contain provisions that allow the u.s. government to unilaterally suspend or debar us from receiving new contracts for a period of time, reduce the value of existing contracts, issue modifications to a contract, and control and potentially prohibit the export of our products, services and associated materials. a number of our u.s. government contracts contain provisions that require us to make disclosure to the inspector general of the agency that is our customer if we have credible evidence that we have violated u.s. criminal laws involving fraud, conflict of interest, or bribery; the u.s. civil false claims act; or received a significant overpayment under a u.s. government contract. failure to properly and timely make disclosures under these provisions may result in a termination for default or cause, suspension and/or debarment, and potential fines. in addition, the dod better buying power initiative, which provides guidance for its acquisition workforce to obtain greater efficiency and productivity in defense spending, significantly affects the contracting environment in which we do business with our dod customers and could have a significant impact on current programs, as well as new business opportunities. changes to the dod acquisition system and contracting models could affect whether and, if so, how we pursue certain opportunities and the terms under which we are able to do so. as a u.s. government contractor, our businesses and systems are subject to audit and review by the defense contract audit agency (dcaa) and the defense contract management agency (dcma). we operate in a highly regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the u.s. government and its agencies such as dcaa and dcma. these agencies review our performance under contracts, our cost structure and our compliance with laws and regulations applicable to u.s. government contractors. the systems that are subject to review include, but are not limited to, our accounting, estimating, material management and accounting, earned value management, purchasing and government property systems. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions that may include the termination of our contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and, under certain circumstances, suspension or debarment from future contracts for a period of time. whether or not illegal activities are alleged, the u.s. government also has the ability to decrease or withhold certain payments when it deems systems subject to its review to be inadequate. these laws and regulations affect how we conduct business with our customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. cost overruns on u.s. government contracts could subject us to losses or adversely affect our future business. under fixed-price contracts, as a general rule, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur, and, consequently, any costs in excess of the fixed price are absorbed by us. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates used in developing the pricing for such contracts may adversely affect our results of operations. under time and materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. under cost-reimbursement contracts that are subject to a contract-ceiling amount, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based, however, if our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs. under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs incurred in performing under the contract, our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. cost overruns also may adversely affect our ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards. weak demand for our aircraft products may continue to adversely affect our financial results. continued worldwide economic softness has adversely impacted the business jet market in recent years. as a result, we have experienced continued weak demand for our fixed-wing aircraft, particularly our business jets. soft demand for our jets could persist and could continue to adversely impact the pricing of new jets and the valuation of pre-owned jets, which comprise a significant portion of our inventory. a prolonged weakness in the markets for our aircraft products could adversely impact our results of operations and our future prospects. 10 we may make acquisitions that increase the risks of our business. we may enter into acquisitions in an effort to expand our business and enhance shareholder value. acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties that could result in our not achieving expected benefits. such risks include difficulties in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner; challenges in achieving expected strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits; the risk that the acquired businesses markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the acquired businesses products and technologies do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; the risk that our due diligence reviews of the acquired business do not identify or adequately assess all of the material issues which impact valuation of the business or that may result in costs or liabilities in excess of what we anticipated; the risk that we pay a purchase price that exceeds what the future results of operations would have merited; the risk that the acquired business may have significant internal control deficiencies or exposure to regulatory sanctions; and the potential loss of key customers, suppliers and employees of the acquired businesses. in addition, unanticipated delays or difficulties in effecting acquisitions may prevent the consummation of the acquisition or divert the attention of our management and resources from our existing operations. on december 26, 2013 we entered into an agreement and plan of merger pursuant to which we will acquire all outstanding equity interests in beech holdings, llc ( beech ), the parent of beechcraft corporation, for approximately $1.4 billion in cash. each of the foregoing risks may impact the success of the beech acquisition. we plan to finance the purchase of the equity in beech and the repayment of beech outstanding debt, which is required at closing, through a combination of available cash at beech and textron and up to $1.1 billion in new debt. while we believe that these sources of funds will be sufficient to complete the transaction, it is possible that unanticipated cash requirements, for working capital or other business needs, either at beech or at textron, could cause us to incur borrowings in excess of what we currently anticipate. difficult economic conditions could continue to affect the performance of our finance segment and our losses may increase if we are unable to successfully collect our finance receivables or realize sufficient value from collateral. the financial performance of our finance segment depends on the quality of loans, leases and other assets in its finance asset portfolios. portfolio quality may be adversely affected by several factors, including finance receivable underwriting procedures, collateral value, geographic or industry concentrations, and the effect of general economic conditions on our customers businesses. valuations of the types of collateral securing our finance asset portfolio, particularly valuations of pre-owned aircraft, have decreased over recent years and may continue to decrease if weak economic conditions continue. declining collateral values could result in greater delinquencies, credit losses and foreclosures if customers elect to discontinue payments on loan balances that exceed asset values. bankruptcy proceedings involving our borrowers may prevent or delay our ability to exercise our rights and remedies and realize the full value of our collateral. we may need to obtain financing in the future; such financing may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all. we may periodically need to obtain financing in order to meet our debt obligations as they come due, to support our operations and/or to make acquisitions. although we currently have access to the capital markets, our access and the cost of borrowings are affected by a number of factors including market conditions and the strength of our credit ratings. if we cannot obtain adequate sources of credit on favorable terms, or at all, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. failure to perform by our subcontractors or suppliers could adversely affect our performance. we rely on other companies to provide raw materials, major components and subsystems for our products. subcontractors also perform services that we provide to our customers in certain circumstances. we depend on these suppliers and subcontractors to meet our contractual obligations to our customers and conduct our operations. our ability to meet our obligations to our customers may be adversely affected if suppliers or subcontractors do not provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services in compliance with customer requirements and in a timely and cost-effective manner. likewise, the quality of our products may be adversely impacted if companies to whom we delegate manufacture of major components or subsystems for our products, or from whom we acquire such items, do not provide components or subsystems which meet required specifications and perform to our and our customers expectations. our suppliers may be less likely than us to be able to quickly recover from natural disasters and other events beyond their control and may be subject to additional risks such as financial problems that limit their ability to conduct their operations. the risk of these adverse effects may be greater in circumstances where we rely on only one or two subcontractors or suppliers for a particular raw material, product or service. in particular, in the aircraft industry, most vendor parts are certified by the regulatory agencies as part of the overall type certificate for the aircraft being produced by the manufacturer. if a vendor does not or cannot supply its parts, then the manufacturer production line may be stopped until the manufacturer can design, manufacture and certify a similar part itself or identify and certify another similar vendor part, resulting in significant delays in the completion of aircraft. such events may adversely affect our financial results, damage our reputation and relationships with our customers, and result in regulatory actions and/or litigation. 11 our business could be negatively impacted by information technology disruptions and security threats. our information technology (it) and related systems are critical to the smooth operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day to day operations. from time to time we update and/or replace it systems used by our businesses. the implementation of new systems can present temporary disruptions of business activities as existing processes are transitioned to the new systems, resulting in productivity issues, delays in production, shipments or other business operations. in addition, we outsource certain support functions, including certain global it infrastructure services, to third-party service providers. any disruption of such outsourced processes or functions also could have a material adverse impact on our operations. in addition, as a u.s. defense contractor, we face certain security threats, including threats to our it infrastructure, unlawful attempts to gain access to our proprietary or classified information and threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, as do our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and joint venture partners. cybersecurity threats, such as malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to information, and other security breaches, are persistent, continue to evolve and require highly skilled it resources. while we have experienced cyber attacks, we have not suffered any material losses relating to such attacks, and we believe our threat detection and mitigation processes and procedures are robust. due to the evolving nature of these security threats, the possibility of any future material incidents cannot be completely mitigated. an it system failure, issues related to implementation of new it systems or breach of data security could disrupt our operations, cause the loss of business information or compromise confidential information. such an incident also could require significant management attention and resources and increased costs, and could adversely affect our competitiveness and our results of operations. developing new products and technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties. to continue to grow our revenues and segment profit, we must successfully develop new products and technologies or modify our existing products and technologies for our current and future markets. our future performance depends, in part, on our ability to identify emerging technological trends and customer requirements and to develop and maintain competitive products and services. delays or cost overruns in the development and acceptance of new products, or certification of new aircraft and other products, could affect our results of operations. these delays could be caused by unanticipated technological hurdles, production changes to meet customer demands, unanticipated difficulties in obtaining required regulatory certifications of new aircraft or other products, coordination with joint venture partners or failure on the part of our suppliers to deliver components as agreed. changes in environmental laws and regulations, for example, those enacted in response to climate change concerns and other actions known as green initiatives, could lead to the necessity for new or additional investment in product designs or manufacturing processes and could increase environmental compliance expenditures, including costs to defend regulatory reviews. we also could be adversely affected if our research and development investments are less successful than expected or if we do not adequately protect the intellectual property developed through these efforts. likewise, new products and technologies could generate unanticipated safety or other concerns resulting in expanded product liability risks, potential product recalls and other regulatory issues that could have an adverse impact on us. furthermore, because of the lengthy research and development cycle involved in bringing certain of our products to market, we cannot predict the economic conditions that will exist when any new product is complete. a reduction in capital spending in the aerospace or defense industries could have a significant effect on the demand for new products and technologies under development, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the market for our product offerings may not develop or continue to expand as we currently anticipate. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing technologies which gain market acceptance in advance of our products. a significant failure in our new product development efforts or the failure of our products or services to achieve market acceptance more rapidly than our competitors could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries. conducting business internationally, including u.s. exports, exposes us to different and additional risks than if we conducted our business solely within the u.s. our exposure to such risks increases as our international business continues to grow. our international business is subject to u.s. and local government regulations and procurement policies and practices, which may change from time to time, including regulations relating to import-export control; technology transfer; environmental, health and safety; investments; exchange controls; and repatriation of earnings or cash settlement challenges, as well as to varying currency, geopolitical and economic risks. these international risks may be especially significant with respect to aerospace and defense products for which we sometimes initially must obtain licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before we are permitted to sell our products outside the u.s. any significant impairment of our ability to sell products outside the u.s. could negatively impact our results of operations. additionally, some international government customers require contractors to agree to specific in-country purchases, manufacturing agreements or financial support arrangements, known as offsets, as a condition for a contract award. the contracts generally extend over several years and may include penalties if we fail to meet the offset requirements, which could adversely impact our results of operations. additionally, we are facing increasing competition in our international markets from foreign and multinational firms that may have certain home country advantages over us; as a result, our ability to compete successfully in those markets may be adversely affected, which could negatively impact our revenues and profitability. 12 we maintain manufacturing facilities, service centers, supply centers and other facilities worldwide, including in various emerging market countries. we also have entered into, and expect to continue to enter into, joint venture arrangements in emerging market countries, some of which may require capital investment, guaranties or other commitments. we expect that our investment in emerging market countries will continue to increase. emerging market operations can present many risks in addition to those discussed above, including civil disturbances, economic and government instability, terrorism and related safety concerns, cultural differences in employment and business practices, difficulties in protecting intellectual property, and the imposition of exchange controls. the impact of any one or more of these or other factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. we also are exposed to risks associated with using foreign representatives and consultants for international sales and operations and teaming with international subcontractors and suppliers in connection with international programs. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act. although we maintain policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, a violation of such laws by any of our international representatives, consultants, joint ventures, business partners, subcontractors or suppliers, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. we are subject to increasing compliance risks that could adversely affect our operating results. as a global business, we are subject to laws and regulations in the u.s. and other countries in which we operate. our increased focus on international sales and global operations requires importing and exporting goods and technology, some of which have military applications subjecting them to more stringent import-export controls across international borders on a regular basis. both u.s. and foreign laws and regulations applicable to us have been increasing in scope and complexity. for example, both u.s. and foreign governments and government agencies regulate the aviation industry, and they may impose new regulations with additional aircraft security or other requirements or restrictions, including, for example, restrictions and/or fees related to carbon emissions levels. new or changing laws and regulations or related interpretation and policies could increase our costs of doing business, affect how we conduct our operations, adversely impact demand for our products, and/or limit our ability to sell our products and services. compliance with laws and regulations of increasing scope and complexity is even more challenging in our current business environment in which reducing our operating costs is often necessary to remain competitive. in addition, a violation of u.s. and/or foreign laws by one of our employees or business partners could subject us or our employees to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions, including denial of import or export privileges and debarment as a government contractor. these improper actions could damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our business. we are subject to legal proceedings and other claims. we are subject to legal proceedings and other claims arising out of the conduct of our business, including proceedings and claims relating to commercial and financial transactions; government contracts; alleged lack of compliance with applicable laws and regulations; production partners; product liability; patent and trademark infringement; employment disputes; and environmental, safety and health matters. due to the nature of our manufacturing business, we may be subject to liability claims arising from accidents involving our products, including claims for serious personal injuries or death caused by weather or by pilot, driver or user error. in the case of litigation matters for which reserves have not been established because the loss is not deemed probable, it is reasonably possible that such claims could be decided against us and could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures in amounts that are not presently estimable. in addition, we cannot be certain that our reserves are adequate and that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover one or more substantial claims. furthermore, we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage at acceptable levels and costs in the future. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and we could incur judgments, receive adverse arbitration awards or enter into settlements for current or future claims that could adversely affect our financial position or our results of operations in any particular period. intellectual property infringement claims of others and the inability to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our customers. intellectual property infringement claims may be asserted by third parties against us or our customers. any related indemnification payments or legal costs we may be obliged to pay on behalf of our businesses, our customers or other third parties could be costly. in addition, we own the rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names, trade names and trade secrets that are important to our business. the inability to enforce these intellectual property rights may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. additionally, our intellectual property could be at risk due to various cyber threats. certain of our products are subject to laws regulating consumer products and could be subject to repurchase or recall as a result of safety issues. as a distributor of consumer products in the u.s., certain of our products also are subject to the consumer product safety act, which empowers the u.s. consumer product safety commission (cpsc) to exclude from the market products that are found to be 13 unsafe or hazardous. under certain circumstances, the cpsc could require us to repair, replace or refund the purchase price of one or more of our products, or potentially even discontinue entire product lines, or we may voluntarily do so, but within strictures recommended by the cpsc. the cpsc also can impose fines or penalties on a manufacturer for non-compliance with its requirements. furthermore, failure to timely notify the cpsc of a potential safety hazard can result in significant fines being assessed against us. any repurchases or recalls of our products or an imposition of fines or penalties could be costly to us and could damage the reputation or the value of our brands. additionally, laws regulating certain consumer products exist in some states, as well as in other countries in which we sell our products, and more restrictive laws and regulations may be adopted in the future. the increasing costs of certain employee and retiree benefits could adversely affect our results. our earnings and cash flow may be adversely impacted by the amount of income or expense we expend or record for employee benefit plans. this is particularly true for our defined benefit pension plans, where required contributions to those plans and related expenses are driven by, among other things, our assumptions of the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate used for future payment obligations and the rates of future cost growth. additionally, as part of our annual evaluation of these plans, significant changes in our assumptions, due to changes in economic, legislative and/or demographic experience or circumstances, or changes in our actual investment returns could negatively impact the funded status of our plans requiring us to substantially increase our pension liability with a resulting decrease in shareholders equity. also, changes in pension legislation and regulations could increase the cost associated with our defined benefit pension plans. in addition, medical costs are rising at a rate faster than the general inflation rate. continued medical cost inflation in excess of the general inflation rate would increase the risk that we will not be able to mitigate the rising costs of medical benefits. moreover, we expect that some of the requirements of the new comprehensive healthcare law will increase our future costs. increases to the costs of pension and medical benefits could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our business could be adversely affected by strikes or work stoppages and other labor issues. approximately 6,000 of our u.s. employees, or 26% of our total u.s. employees, are unionized, and approximately 2,900 of our non-u.s. employees, or 32% of our total non-u.s. employees, are represented by organized councils. as a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, resulting in strain on our relationships with our customers and a loss of revenues. the presence of unions also may limit our flexibility in responding to competitive pressures in the marketplace. in addition, the workforces of many of our suppliers and customers are represented by labor unions. work stoppages or strikes at the plants of our key suppliers could disrupt our manufacturing processes; similar actions at the plants of our customers could result in delayed or canceled orders for our products. any of these events could adversely affect our results of operations. currency, raw material price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates. currency variations also contribute to variations in sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. accordingly, fluctuations in foreign currency rates could adversely affect our profitability in future periods. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. in some cases, we purchase derivatives or enter into contracts to insulate our results of operations from these fluctuations. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates can have substantial adverse effects on our results of operations. we may be unable to effectively mitigate pricing pressures. in some markets, particularly where we deliver component products and services to original equipment manufacturers, we face ongoing customer demands for price reductions, which sometimes are contractually obligated. however, if we are unable to effectively mitigate future pricing pressures through technological advances or by lowering our cost base through improved operating and supply chain efficiencies, our results of operations could be adversely affected. unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in both the u.s. and various non-u.s. jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among these different jurisdictions. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes to unrecognized tax benefits or changes in tax laws, which could affect our profitability. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income, as well as changes to applicable statutory tax rates. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a tax authority could affect our profitability. 14 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign exchange risks our financial results are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates in the various countries in which our products are manufactured and/or sold. for our manufacturing operations, we manage exposures to foreign currency assets and earnings primarily by funding certain foreign currency-denominated assets with liabilities in the same currency so that certain exposures are naturally offset. we primarily use borrowings denominated in euro and british pound sterling for these purposes. in managing our foreign currency transaction exposures, we also enter into foreign currency forward exchange and option contracts. these contracts generally are used to fix the local currency cost of purchased goods or services or selling prices denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. the notional amount of outstanding foreign exchange contracts and foreign currency options was approximately $636 million and $664 million at the end of 2013 and 2012, respectively. the impact of foreign exchange rate changes for 2013 and 2012 from the prior year for each period is provided below: (in millions) 2013 2012 impact of foreign exchange rates increased (decreased): revenues $ 6 $ (80 ) segment profit (1 ) (10 ) interest rate risks our financial results are affected by changes in interest rates. as part of managing this risk, we seek to achieve a prudent balance between floating- and fixed-rate exposures. we continually monitor our mix of these exposures and adjust the mix, as necessary. for our finance group, we limit our risk to changes in interest rates with a strategy of matching floating-rate assets with floating-rate liabilities that includes the use of interest rate exchange agreements. 37 quantitative risk measures in the normal course of business, we enter into financial instruments for purposes other than trading. to quantify the market risk inherent in our financial instruments, we utilize a sensitivity analysis. the financial instruments that are subject to market risk (interest rate risk and foreign exchange rate risk) include finance receivables (excluding lease receivables), debt (excluding lease obligations), interest rate exchange agreements and foreign currency exchange contracts. presented below is a sensitivity analysis of the fair value of financial instruments outstanding at year-end. we estimate the fair value of the financial instruments using discounted cash flow analysis and indicative market pricing as reported by leading financial news and data providers. this sensitivity analysis is most likely not indicative of actual results in the future. the following table illustrates the sensitivity to a hypothetical change in the fair value of the financial instruments assuming a 10% decrease in interest rates and a 10% strengthening in exchange rates against the u.s. dollar: 2013 2012 ( in millions ) carrying value* fair value* sensitivity of fair value to a 10% change carrying value* fair value* sensitivity of fair value to a 10% change manufacturing group foreign exchange rate risk debt $ (249 ) $ (275 ) $ (27 ) $ (564 ) $ (598 ) $ (60 ) foreign currency exchange contracts (12 ) (12 ) 33 6 6 34 $ (261 ) $ (287 ) $ 6 $ (558 ) $ (592 ) $ (26 ) interest rate risk debt $ (1,854 ) $ (2,027 ) $ (13 ) $ (2,225 ) $ (2,636 ) $ (9 ) finance group interest rate risk finance receivables $ 1,296 $ 1,356 $ 24 $ 1,766 $ 1,793 $ 36 debt, including intergroup (1,256 ) (1,244 ) (4 ) (1,687 ) (1,678 ) (13 ) $ 40 $ 112 $ 20 $ 79 $ 115 $ 23 * the value represents an asset or (liability). 38risk factors our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. the risks discussed below are those that we believe currently are the most significant to our business. we have customer concentration with the u.s. government; reduction in u.s. government defense spending may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. during 2014, we derived approximately 28% of our revenues from sales to a variety of u.s. government entities. our revenues from the u.s. government largely result from contracts awarded to us under various u.s. government defense-related programs. the funding of these programs is subject to congressional appropriation decisions and the u.s. government budget process which includes enacting relevant legislation, such as appropriations bills and accords on the debt ceiling. although multiple-year contracts may be planned in connection with major procurements, congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may continue for several years. consequently, programs often are only partially funded initially, and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. if we incur costs in excess of funds committed on a contract, we are at risk for non-reimbursement of those costs until additional funds are appropriated. the reduction, termination or delay in the timing of funding for u.s. government programs for which we currently provide or propose to provide products or services may result in a loss of anticipated future revenues that could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. significant changes in national and international priorities for defense spending could impact the funding, or the timing of funding, of our programs, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. under the budget control act of 2011, the u.s. government committed to significantly reduce the federal deficit over ten years. as a result, long-term funding for various programs in which we participate, as well as future purchasing decisions by our u.s. government customers, could be reduced, delayed or cancelled. in addition, these cuts could adversely affect the viability of the suppliers and subcontractors under our programs. there are many variables in how these budget cuts could be implemented that make it difficult to determine specific impacts; however, we expect that sequestration, as currently provided for under the budget control act, would result in lower revenues, profits and cash flows for our company. such circumstances may also result in an impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets. because our u.s. government contracts generally require us to continue to perform even if the u.s. government is unable to make timely payments; if, for example, the debt ceiling is not raised, and, as a result, our customer does not pay us on a timely basis, we would need to finance our continued performance of the impacted contracts from our other resources. an extended delay in the timely payment by the u.s. government could result in a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. u.s. government contracts may be terminated at any time and may contain other unfavorable provisions. the u.s. government typically can terminate or modify any of its contracts with us either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. in the event of termination for the u.s. government convenience, contractors are generally protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contracts and profit on those costs but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. a termination arising out of our default for failure to perform could expose us to liability, including but not limited to, liability for re-procurement costs in excess of the total original contract amount, net of the value of work performed and accepted by the customer under the contract. such an event could also have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. if any of our contracts are terminated by the u.s. government whether for convenience or default, our backlog and anticipated revenues would be reduced by the expected value of the remaining work under such contracts. we also enter into fee for service contracts with the u.s. government where we retain ownership of, and consequently the risk of loss on, aircraft and equipment supplied to perform under these contracts. termination of these contracts could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. on contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our products and services as a subcontractor. in addition, in the event that the u.s. government is unable to make timely payments, failure to continue contract performance places the contractor at risk of termination for default. any such event could result in a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to procurement rules and regulations. we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of u.s. government contracts. these laws and regulations, among other things, require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiation, define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based u.s. government contracts, and restrict the use and dissemination of classified information and the exportation of certain products and technical data. our u.s. government contracts contain provisions that allow the u.s. government to unilaterally suspend or debar us from receiving new contracts for a period of time, reduce the value of existing contracts, issue modifications to a contract, and control and potentially prohibit the export of our products, services and 10 table of contents associated materials. a number of our u.s. government contracts contain provisions that require us to make disclosure to the inspector general of the agency that is our customer if we have credible evidence that we have violated u.s. criminal laws involving fraud, conflict of interest, or bribery; the u.s. civil false claims act; or received a significant overpayment under a u.s. government contract. failure to properly and timely make disclosures under these provisions may result in a termination for default or cause, suspension and/or debarment, and potential fines. as a u.s. government contractor, our businesses and systems are subject to audit and review by the defense contract audit agency (dcaa) and the defense contract management agency (dcma). we operate in a highly regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the u.s. government and its agencies such as dcaa and dcma. these agencies review our performance under contracts, our cost structure and our compliance with laws and regulations applicable to u.s. government contractors. the systems that are subject to review include, but are not limited to, our accounting, estimating, material management and accounting, earned value management, purchasing and government property systems. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions that may include the termination of our contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and, under certain circumstances, suspension or debarment from future contracts for a period of time. whether or not illegal activities are alleged, the u.s. government also has the ability to decrease or withhold certain payments when it deems systems subject to its review to be inadequate. these laws and regulations affect how we conduct business with our government customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. cost overruns on u.s. government contracts could subject us to losses or adversely affect our future business. under fixed-price contracts, as a general rule, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur, and, consequently, any costs in excess of the fixed price are absorbed by us. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates used in developing the pricing for such contracts may adversely affect our results of operations. additionally, u.s. government procurement policies increasingly favor fixed-price incentive-based fee arrangements rather than traditional fixed-price contracts; these fee arrangements could negatively impact our profitability. other current u.s. government policies could negatively impact our working capital and cash flow. for example, the government has expressed a preference for requiring progress payments rather than performance based payments on new fixed-price contracts, which if implemented, delays our ability to recover a significant amount of costs incurred on a contract and thus affects the timing of our cash flows. under time and materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. under cost-reimbursement contracts that are subject to a contract-ceiling amount, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based, however, if our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs. under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs incurred in performing under the contract, our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. cost overruns also may adversely affect our ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards. demand for our aircraft products is cyclical and could adversely affect our financial results. demand for business jets, turbo props and commercial helicopters has been cyclical and difficult to forecast. therefore, future demand for these products could be significantly and unexpectedly less than anticipated and/or less than previous period deliveries. similarly, there is uncertainty as to when or whether our existing commercial backlog for aircraft products will convert to revenues as the conversion depends on production capacity, customer needs and credit availability. changes in economic conditions may cause customers to request that firm orders be rescheduled or cancelled. reduced demand for our aircraft products or delays or cancellations of orders could result in a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. we may make acquisitions that increase the risks of our business. we may enter into acquisitions in an effort to expand our business and enhance shareholder value. acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties that could result in our not achieving expected benefits. such risks include difficulties in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner; challenges in achieving expected strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits; the risk that the acquired businesses markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the acquired businesses products and technologies do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; the risk that our due diligence reviews of the acquired business do not identify or adequately assess all of the material issues which impact valuation of the business or that may result in costs or liabilities in excess of what we anticipated; the risk that we pay a purchase price that exceeds what the future results of operations would have merited; the risk that the acquired business may have significant internal control deficiencies or exposure to regulatory sanctions; and the potential loss of key customers, suppliers and employees of the acquired businesses. in addition, unanticipated delays or difficulties in effecting acquisitions may prevent the consummation of the acquisition or divert the attention of our management and resources from our existing operations. if our finance segment is unable to maintain portfolio credit quality, our financial performance could be adversely affected . a key determinant of the financial performance of our finance segment is the quality of loans, leases and other assets in its portfolio. portfolio quality may be adversely affected by several factors, including finance receivable underwriting procedures, 11 table of contents collateral value, geographic or industry concentrations, and the effect of general economic conditions. in addition, a majority of the new originations in our finance receivable portfolio are cross-border transactions for aircraft sold outside of the u.s. cross-border transactions present additional challenges and risks in realizing upon collateral in the event of borrower default, which may result in difficulty or delay in collecting on the related finance receivables. if our finance segment has difficulty successfully collecting its finance receivable portfolio, our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may need to obtain financing in the future; such financing may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all. we may periodically need to obtain financing in order to meet our debt obligations as they come due, to support our operations and/or to make acquisitions. our access to the debt capital markets and the cost of borrowings are affected by a number of factors including market conditions and the strength of our credit ratings. if we cannot obtain adequate sources of credit on favorable terms, or at all, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. failure to perform by our subcontractors or suppliers could adversely affect our performance. we rely on other companies to provide raw materials, major components and subsystems for our products. subcontractors also perform services that we provide to our customers in certain circumstances. we depend on these suppliers and subcontractors to meet our contractual obligations to our customers and conduct our operations. our ability to meet our obligations to our customers may be adversely affected if suppliers or subcontractors do not provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services in compliance with customer requirements and in a timely and cost-effective manner. likewise, the quality of our products may be adversely impacted if companies to whom we delegate manufacture of major components or subsystems for our products, or from whom we acquire such items, do not provide components or subsystems which meet required specifications and perform to our and our customers expectations. our suppliers may be less likely than us to be able to quickly recover from natural disasters and other events beyond their control and may be subject to additional risks such as financial problems that limit their ability to conduct their operations. the risk of these adverse effects may be greater in circumstances where we rely on only one or two subcontractors or suppliers for a particular raw material, product or service. in particular, in the aircraft industry, most vendor parts are certified by the regulatory agencies as part of the overall type certificate for the aircraft being produced by the manufacturer. if a vendor does not or cannot supply its parts, then the manufacturer production line may be stopped until the manufacturer can design, manufacture and certify a similar part itself or identify and certify another similar vendor part, resulting in significant delays in the completion of aircraft. such events may adversely affect our financial results, damage our reputation and relationships with our customers, and result in regulatory actions and/or litigation. our business could be negatively impacted by information technology disruptions and security threats. our information technology (it) and related systems are critical to the smooth operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day to day operations. from time to time, we update and/or replace it systems used by our businesses. the implementation of new systems can present temporary disruptions of business activities as existing processes are transitioned to the new systems, resulting in productivity issues, including delays in production, shipments or other business operations. in addition, we outsource certain support functions, including certain global it infrastructure services, to third-party service providers. any disruption of such outsourced processes or functions also could have a material adverse impact on our operations. in addition, as a u.s. defense contractor, we face certain security threats, including threats to our it infrastructure, unlawful attempts to gain access to our proprietary or classified information and threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, as do our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and joint venture partners. cybersecurity threats, such as malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to our confidential, classified or otherwise proprietary information or that of our employees or customers, as well as other security breaches, are persistent, continue to evolve and require highly skilled it resources. while we have experienced cybersecurity attacks, we have not suffered any material losses relating to such attacks, and we believe our threat detection and mitigation processes and procedures are robust. due to the evolving nature of these security threats, the possibility of future material incidents cannot be completely mitigated. an it system failure, issues related to implementation of new it systems or breach of data security, whether of our systems or the systems of our service providers or other third parties who may have access to our data for business purposes, could disrupt our operations, cause the loss of business information or compromise confidential information. such an incident also could require significant management attention and resources and increased costs, and could adversely affect our competitiveness and our results of operations. developing new products and technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties. to continue to grow our revenues and segment profit, we must successfully develop new products and technologies or modify our existing products and technologies for our current and future markets. our future performance depends, in part, on our ability to identify emerging technological trends and customer requirements and to develop and maintain competitive products and services. delays or cost overruns in the development and acceptance of new products, or certification of new aircraft and other products, could affect our results of operations. these delays could be caused by unanticipated technological hurdles, production changes to meet customer demands, unanticipated difficulties in obtaining required regulatory certifications of new aircraft or other products, coordination with joint venture partners or failure on the part of our suppliers to deliver components as agreed. we also could be adversely affected if our research and development investments are less successful than expected or if we do not adequately 12 table of contents protect the intellectual property developed through these efforts. likewise, new products and technologies could generate unanticipated safety or other concerns resulting in expanded product liability risks, potential product recalls and other regulatory issues that could have an adverse impact on us. furthermore, because of the lengthy research and development cycle involved in bringing certain of our products to market, we cannot predict the economic conditions that will exist when any new product is complete. a reduction in capital spending in the aerospace or defense industries could have a significant effect on the demand for new products and technologies under development, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the market for our product offerings may not develop or continue to expand as we currently anticipate. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing technologies which gain superior market acceptance compared to our products. a significant failure in our new product development efforts or the failure of our products or services to achieve market acceptance relative to our competitors products or services could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries. conducting business internationally, including u.s. exports, exposes us to additional risks than if we conducted our business solely within the u.s. we maintain manufacturing facilities, service centers, supply centers and other facilities worldwide, including in various emerging market countries. we also have entered into, and expect to continue to enter into, joint venture arrangements in emerging market countries, some of which may require capital investment, guaranties or other commitments. we expect that our international business and our investment in emerging market countries will continue to increase. risks related to international operations include import, export and other trade restrictions; changing u.s. and foreign procurement policies and practices; restrictions on technology transfer; difficulties in protecting intellectual property; increasing complexity of employment and environmental, health and safety regulations; foreign investment laws; exchange controls; repatriation of earnings or cash settlement challenges, competition from foreign and multinational firms with home country advantages; economic and government instability, acts of terrorism and related safety concerns. the impact of any one or more of these or other factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. additionally, some international government customers require contractors to agree to specific in-country purchases, manufacturing agreements or financial support arrangements, known as offsets, as a condition for a contract award. the contracts generally extend over several years and may include penalties if we fail to perform in accordance with the offset requirements which are typically subjective. we also are exposed to risks associated with using foreign representatives and consultants for international sales and operations and teaming with international subcontractors and suppliers in connection with international programs. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act. although we maintain policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, a violation of such laws by any of our international representatives, consultants, joint ventures, business partners, subcontractors or suppliers, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. we are subject to increasing compliance risks that could adversely affect our operating results. as a global business, we are subject to laws and regulations in the u.s. and other countries in which we operate. our increased focus on international sales and global operations requires importing and exporting goods and technology, some of which have military applications subjecting them to more stringent import-export controls across international borders on a regular basis. for example, we sometimes initially must obtain licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before we are permitted to sell certain of our aerospace and defense products outside the u.s. both u.s. and foreign laws and regulations applicable to us have been increasing in scope and complexity. for example, both u.s. and foreign governments and government agencies regulate the aviation industry, and they may impose new regulations with additional aircraft security or other requirements or restrictions, including, for example, restrictions and/or fees related to carbon emissions levels. changes in environmental laws and regulations, including those enacted in response to climate change concerns and other actions known as green initiatives, could lead to the necessity for new or additional investment in product designs or manufacturing processes and could increase environmental compliance expenditures, including costs to defend regulatory reviews. new or changing laws and regulations or related interpretation and policies could increase our costs of doing business, affect how we conduct our operations, adversely impact demand for our products, and/or limit our ability to sell our products and services. compliance with laws and regulations of increasing scope and complexity is even more challenging in our current business environment in which reducing our operating costs is often necessary to remain competitive. in addition, a violation of u.s. and/or foreign laws by one of our employees or business partners could subject us or our employees to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions, such as denial of import or export privileges and/or debarment as a government contractor which could damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our business. we are subject to legal proceedings and other claims. we are subject to legal proceedings and other claims arising out of the conduct of our business, including proceedings and claims relating to commercial and financial transactions; government contracts; alleged lack of compliance with applicable laws and 13 table of contents regulations; production partners; product liability; patent and trademark infringement; employment disputes; and environmental, safety and health matters. due to the nature of our manufacturing business, we may be subject to liability claims arising from accidents involving our products, including claims for serious personal injuries or death caused by weather or by pilot, driver or user error. in the case of litigation matters for which reserves have not been established because the loss is not deemed probable, it is reasonably possible that such claims could be decided against us and could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures in amounts that are not presently estimable. in addition, we cannot be certain that our reserves are adequate and that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover one or more substantial claims. furthermore, we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage at acceptable levels and costs in the future. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and we could incur judgments, receive adverse arbitration awards or enter into settlements for current or future claims that could adversely affect our financial position or our results of operations in any particular period. intellectual property infringement claims of others and the inability to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our customers. intellectual property infringement claims may be asserted by third parties against us or our customers. any related indemnification payments or legal costs we may be obliged to pay on behalf of our businesses, our customers or other third parties could be costly. in addition, we own the rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names, trade names and trade secrets that are important to our business. the inability to enforce these intellectual property rights may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. additionally, our intellectual property could be at risk due to various cybersecurity threats. certain of our products are subject to laws regulating consumer products and could be subject to repurchase or recall as a result of safety issues. as a distributor of consumer products in the u.s., certain of our products also are subject to the consumer product safety act, which empowers the u.s. consumer product safety commission (cpsc) to exclude from the market products that are found to be unsafe or hazardous. under certain circumstances, the cpsc could require us to repair, replace or refund the purchase price of one or more of our products, or potentially even discontinue entire product lines, or we may voluntarily do so, but within strictures recommended by the cpsc. the cpsc also can impose fines or penalties on a manufacturer for non-compliance with its requirements. furthermore, failure to timely notify the cpsc of a potential safety hazard can result in significant fines being assessed against us. any repurchases or recalls of our products or an imposition of fines or penalties could be costly to us and could damage the reputation or the value of our brands. additionally, laws regulating certain consumer products exist in some states, as well as in other countries in which we sell our products, and more restrictive laws and regulations may be adopted in the future. the increasing costs of certain employee and retiree benefits could adversely affect our results. our earnings and cash flow may be adversely impacted by the amount of income or expense we expend or record for employee benefit plans. this is particularly true for our defined benefit pension plans, where required contributions to those plans and related expenses are driven by, among other things, our assumptions of the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate used for future payment obligations and the rates of future cost growth. additionally, as part of our annual evaluation of these plans, significant changes in our assumptions, due to changes in economic, legislative and/or demographic experience or circumstances, or changes in our actual investment returns could negatively impact the funded status of our plans requiring us to substantially increase our pension liability with a resulting decrease in shareholders equity. also, changes in pension legislation and regulations could increase the cost associated with our defined benefit pension plans. in addition, medical costs are rising at a rate faster than the general inflation rate. continued medical cost inflation in excess of the general inflation rate would increase the risk that we will not be able to mitigate the rising costs of medical benefits. moreover, we expect that some of the requirements of the new comprehensive healthcare law will increase our future costs. increases to the costs of pension and medical benefits could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our business could be adversely affected by strikes or work stoppages and other labor issues. approximately 7,100, or 28%, of our u.s. employees are unionized, and many of our non-u.s. employees are represented by organized councils. as a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, resulting in strain on our relationships with our customers and a loss of revenues. the presence of unions also may limit our flexibility in responding to competitive pressures in the marketplace. in addition, the workforces of many of our suppliers and customers are represented by labor unions. work stoppages or strikes at the plants of our key suppliers could disrupt our manufacturing processes; similar actions at the plants of our customers could result in delayed or canceled orders for our products. any of these events could adversely affect our results of operations. currency, raw material price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates. currency variations also contribute to variations in sales of products and services in impacted 14 table of contents jurisdictions. accordingly, fluctuations in foreign currency rates could adversely affect our profitability in future periods. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. in some cases, we purchase derivatives or enter into contracts to insulate our results of operations from these fluctuations. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates can have substantial adverse effects on our results of operations. we may be unable to effectively mitigate pricing pressures. in some markets, particularly where we deliver component products and services to oems, we face ongoing customer demands for price reductions, which sometimes are contractually obligated. however, if we are unable to effectively mitigate future pricing pressures through technological advances or by lowering our cost base through improved operating and supply chain efficiencies, our results of operations could be adversely affected. unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in both the u.s. and various non-u.s. jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among these different jurisdictions. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes to unrecognized tax benefits or changes in tax laws, which could affect our profitability. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income, as well as changes to applicable statutory tax rates. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a tax authority could affect our profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange risks our financial results are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates in the various countries in which our products are manufactured and/or sold. for our manufacturing operations, we manage exposures to foreign currency assets and earnings primarily by funding certain foreign currency-denominated assets with liabilities in the same currency so that certain exposures are naturally offset. we primarily use borrowings denominated in british pound sterling for these purposes. in managing our foreign currency transaction exposures, we also enter into foreign currency exchange contracts. these contracts generally are used to fix the local currency cost of purchased goods or services or selling prices denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. the notional amount of outstanding foreign currency exchange contracts was approximately $696 million and $636 million at the end of 2014 and 2013, respectively. the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes on revenues and segment profit for 2014 and 2013 from the prior year was not significant. interest rate risks our financial results are affected by changes in interest rates. as part of managing this risk, we seek to achieve a prudent balance between floating- and fixed-rate exposures. we continually monitor our mix of these exposures and adjust the mix, as necessary. for our finance group, we limit our risk to changes in interest rates with a strategy of matching floating-rate assets with floating-rate liabilities. quantitative risk measures in the normal course of business, we enter into financial instruments for purposes other than trading. to quantify the market risk inherent in our financial instruments, we utilize a sensitivity analysis. the financial instruments that are subject to market risk (interest rate risk and foreign exchange rate risk) include finance receivables (excluding leases), debt (excluding lease obligations) and foreign currency exchange contracts. presented below is a sensitivity analysis of the fair value of financial instruments outstanding at year-end. we estimate the fair value of the financial instruments using discounted cash flow analysis and indicative market pricing as reported by leading financial news and data providers. this sensitivity analysis is most likely not indicative of actual results in the future. the following table illustrates the sensitivity to a hypothetical change in the fair value of the financial instruments assuming a 10% decrease in interest rates and a 10% strengthening in exchange rates against the u.s. dollar. 2014 2013 ( in millions ) carrying value* fair value* sensitivity of fair value to a 10% change carrying value* fair value* sensitivity of fair value to a 10% change manufacturing group foreign exchange rate risk debt $ (236 ) $ (277 ) $ (28 ) $ (249 ) $ (275 ) $ (27 ) foreign currency exchange contracts (11 ) (11 ) 52 (12 ) (12 ) 33 $ (247 ) $ (288 ) $ 24 $ (261 ) $ (287 ) $ 6 interest rate risk debt $ (2,742 ) $ (2,944 ) $ (21 ) $ (1,854 ) $ (2,027 ) $ (13 ) finance group interest rate risk finance receivables $ 1,039 $ 1,056 $ 20 $ 1,296 $ 1,356 $ 24 debt, including intergroup (1,063 ) (1,051 ) 9 (1,256 ) (1,244 ) (4 ) * the value represents an asset or (liability). 36 table of contentsrisk factors our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. the risks discussed below are those that we believe currently are the most significant to our business. we have customer concentration with the u.s. government; reduction in u.s. government defense spending may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. during 2015, we derived approximately 24% of our revenues from sales to a variety of u.s. government entities. our revenues from the u.s. government largely result from contracts awarded to us under various u.s. government defense-related programs. the funding of these programs is subject to congressional appropriation decisions and the u.s. government budget process which includes enacting relevant legislation, such as appropriations bills and accords on the debt ceiling. although multiple-year contracts may be planned in connection with major procurements, congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may continue for several years. consequently, programs often are only partially funded initially, and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. if we incur costs in excess of funds committed on a contract, we are at risk for non-reimbursement of those costs until additional funds are appropriated. the reduction, termination or delay in the timing of funding for u.s. government programs for which we currently provide or propose to provide products or services may result in a loss of anticipated future revenues that could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. significant changes in national and international priorities for defense spending could impact the funding, or the timing of funding, of our programs, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. under the budget control act of 2011, the u.s. government committed to significantly reduce the federal deficit over ten years. as a result, long-term funding for various programs in which we participate, as well as future purchasing decisions by our u.s. government customers, could be reduced, delayed or cancelled. in addition, these cuts could adversely affect the viability of the suppliers and subcontractors under our programs. there are many variables in how these budget cuts could be implemented that make it difficult to determine specific impacts; however, we expect that sequestration, as currently provided for under the budget control act, would result in lower revenues, profits and cash flows for our company. such circumstances may also result in an impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets. because our u.s. government contracts generally require us to continue to perform even if the u.s. government is unable to make timely payments; if, for example, the debt ceiling is not raised, and, as a result, our customer does not pay us on a timely basis, we would need to finance our continued performance of the impacted contracts from our other resources. an extended delay in the timely payment by the u.s. government could result in a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. u.s. government contracts may be terminated at any time and may contain other unfavorable provisions. the u.s. government typically can terminate or modify any of its contracts with us either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. in the event of termination for the u.s. government convenience, contractors are generally protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contracts and profit on those costs but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. a termination arising out of our default for failure to perform could expose us to liability, including but not limited to, liability for re-procurement costs in excess of the total original contract amount, net of the value of work performed and accepted by the customer under the contract. such an event could also have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. if any of our contracts are terminated by the u.s. government whether for convenience or default, our backlog and anticipated revenues would be reduced by the expected value of the remaining work under such contracts. we also enter into fee for service contracts with the u.s. government where we retain ownership of, and consequently the risk of loss on, aircraft and equipment supplied to perform under these contracts. termination of these contracts could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. on contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our products and services as a subcontractor. in addition, in the event that the u.s. government is unable to make timely payments, failure to continue contract performance places the contractor at risk of termination for default. any such event could result in a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to procurement rules and regulations. we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of u.s. government contracts. these laws and regulations, among other things, require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiation, define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based u.s. government contracts, and restrict the use and dissemination of classified information and the exportation of certain products and technical data. our u.s. government contracts contain provisions that allow the u.s. government to unilaterally suspend or debar us from receiving new contracts for a period of time, reduce the value of existing contracts, issue modifications to a contract, and control and potentially prohibit the export of our products, services and 10 table of contents associated materials. a number of our u.s. government contracts contain provisions that require us to make disclosure to the inspector general of the agency that is our customer if we have credible evidence that we have violated u.s. criminal laws involving fraud, conflict of interest, or bribery; the u.s. civil false claims act; or received a significant overpayment under a u.s. government contract. failure to properly and timely make disclosures under these provisions may result in a termination for default or cause, suspension and/or debarment, and potential fines. as a u.s. government contractor, our businesses and systems are subject to audit and review by the defense contract audit agency (dcaa) and the defense contract management agency (dcma). we operate in a highly regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the u.s. government and its agencies such as dcaa and dcma. these agencies review our performance under contracts, our cost structure and our compliance with laws and regulations applicable to u.s. government contractors. the systems that are subject to review include, but are not limited to, our accounting, estimating, material management and accounting, earned value management, purchasing and government property systems. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions that may include the termination of our contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and, under certain circumstances, suspension or debarment from future contracts for a period of time. whether or not illegal activities are alleged, the u.s. government also has the ability to decrease or withhold certain payments when it deems systems subject to its review to be inadequate. these laws and regulations affect how we conduct business with our government customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. cost overruns on u.s. government contracts could subject us to losses or adversely affect our future business. under fixed-price contracts, as a general rule, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur, and, consequently, any costs in excess of the fixed price are absorbed by us. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates used in developing the pricing for such contracts may adversely affect our results of operations. additionally, u.s. government procurement policies increasingly favor fixed-price incentive-based fee arrangements rather than traditional fixed-price contracts; these fee arrangements could negatively impact our profitability. other current u.s. government policies could negatively impact our working capital and cash flow. for example, the government has expressed a preference for requiring progress payments rather than performance based payments on new fixed-price contracts, which if implemented, delays our ability to recover a significant amount of costs incurred on a contract and thus affects the timing of our cash flows. under time and materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. under cost-reimbursement contracts that are subject to a contract-ceiling amount, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based, however, if our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs. under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs incurred in performing under the contract, our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. cost overruns also may adversely affect our ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards. demand for our aircraft products is cyclical and could adversely affect our financial results. demand for business jets, turbo props and commercial helicopters has been cyclical and difficult to forecast. therefore, future demand for these products could be significantly and unexpectedly less than anticipated and/or less than previous period deliveries. similarly, t here is uncertainty as to when or whether our existing commercial backlog for aircraft products will convert to revenues as the conversion depends on production capacity, customer needs and credit availability. changes in economic conditions may cause customers to request that firm orders be rescheduled or cancelled. reduced demand for our aircraft products or delays or cancellations of orders could result in a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. we may make acquisitions that increase the risks of our business. we may enter into acquisitions in an effort to expand our business and enhance shareholder value. acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties that could result in our not achieving expected benefits. such risks include difficulties in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner; challenges in achieving expected strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits; the risk that the acquired businesses markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the acquired businesses products and technologies do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; the risk that our due diligence reviews of the acquired business do not identify or adequately assess all of the material issues which impact valuation of the business or that may result in costs or liabilities in excess of what we anticipated; the risk that we pay a purchase price that exceeds what the future results of operations would have merited; the risk that the acquired business may have significant internal control deficiencies or exposure to regulatory sanctions; and the potential loss of key customers, suppliers and employees of the acquired businesses. in addition, unanticipated delays or difficulties in effecting acquisitions may prevent the consummation of the acquisition or divert the attention of our management and resources from our existing operations. if our finance segment is unable to maintain portfolio credit quality, our financial performance could be adversely affected . a key determinant of the financial performance of our finance segment is the quality of loans, leases and other assets in its portfolio. portfolio quality may be adversely affected by several factors, including finance receivable underwriting procedures, 11 table of contents collateral value, geographic or industry concentrations, and the effect of general economic conditions. in addition, a majority of the new originations in our finance receivable portfolio are cross-border transactions for aircraft sold outside of the u.s. cross-border transactions present additional challenges and risks in realizing upon collateral in the event of borrower default, which may result in difficulty or delay in collecting on the related finance receivables. if our finance segment has difficulty successfully collecting its finance receivable portfolio, our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may need to obtain financing in the future; such financing may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all. we may periodically need to obtain financing in order to meet our debt obligations as they come due, to support our operations and/or to make acquisitions. our access to the debt capital markets and the cost of borrowings are affected by a number of factors including market conditions and the strength of our credit ratings. if we cannot obtain adequate sources of credit on favorable terms, or at all, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. failure to perform by our subcontractors or suppliers could adversely affect our performance. we rely on other companies to provide raw materials, major components and subsystems for our products. subcontractors also perform services that we provide to our customers in certain circumstances. we depend on these suppliers and subcontractors to meet our contractual obligations to our customers and conduct our operations. our ability to meet our obligations to our customers may be adversely affected if suppliers or subcontractors do not provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services in compliance with customer requirements and in a timely and cost-effective manner. likewise, the quality of our products may be adversely impacted if companies to whom we delegate manufacture of major components or subsystems for our products, or from whom we acquire such items, do not provide components or subsystems which meet required specifications and perform to our and our customers expectations. our suppliers may be less likely than us to be able to quickly recover from natural disasters and other events beyond their control and may be subject to additional risks such as financial problems that limit their ability to conduct their operations. the risk of these adverse effects may be greater in circumstances where we rely on only one or two subcontractors or suppliers for a particular raw material, product or service. in particular, in the aircraft industry, most vendor parts are certified by the regulatory agencies as part of the overall type certificate for the aircraft being produced by the manufacturer. if a vendor does not or cannot supply its parts, then the manufacturer production line may be stopped until the manufacturer can design, manufacture and certify a similar part itself or identify and certify another similar vendor part, resulting in significant delays in the completion of aircraft. such events may adversely affect our financial results, damage our reputation and relationships with our customers, and result in regulatory actions and/or litigation. our business could be negatively impacted by information technology disruptions and security threats. our information technology (it) and related systems are critical to the smooth operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day to day operations. from time to time, we update and/or replace it systems used by our businesses. the implementation of new systems can present temporary disruptions of business activities as existing processes are transitioned to the new systems, resulting in productivity issues, including delays in production, shipments or other business operations. in addition, we outsource certain support functions, including certain global it infrastructure services, to third-party service providers. any disruption of such outsourced processes or functions also could have a material adverse impact on our operations. in addition, as a u.s. defense contractor, we face certain security threats, including threats to our it infrastructure, unlawful attempts to gain access to our proprietary or classified information and threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, as do our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and joint venture partners. cybersecurity threats, such as malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to our confidential, classified or otherwise proprietary information or that of our employees or customers, as well as other security breaches, are persistent, continue to evolve and require highly skilled it resources. while we have experienced cybersecurity attacks, we have not suffered any material losses relating to such attacks, and we believe our threat detection and mitigation processes and procedures are robust. due to the evolving nature of these security threats, the possibility of future material incidents cannot be completely mitigated. an it system failure, issues related to implementation of new it systems or breach of data security, whether of our systems or the systems of our service providers or other third parties who may have access to our data for business purposes, could disrupt our operations, cause the loss of business information or compromise confidential information. such an incident also could require significant management attention and resources and increased costs, and could adversely affect our competitiveness and our results of operations. developing new products and technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties. to continue to grow our revenues and segment profit, we must successfully develop new products and technologies or modify our existing products and technologies for our current and future markets. our future performance depends, in part, on our ability to identify emerging technological trends and customer requirements and to develop and maintain competitive products and services. delays or cost overruns in the development and acceptance of new products, or certification of new aircraft and other products, could affect our results of operations. these delays could be caused by unanticipated technological hurdles, production changes to meet customer demands, unanticipated difficulties in obtaining required regulatory certifications of new aircraft or other products, coordination with joint venture partners or failure on the part of our suppliers to deliver components as agreed. we also could be adversely affected if our research and development investments are less successful than expected or if we do not adequately 12 table of contents protect the intellectual property developed through these efforts. likewise, new products and technologies could generate unanticipated safety or other concerns resulting in expanded product liability risks, potential product recalls and other regulatory issues that could have an adverse impact on us. furthermore, because of the lengthy research and development cycle involved in bringing certain of our products to market, we cannot predict the economic conditions that will exist when any new product is complete. a reduction in capital spending in the aerospace or defense industries could have a significant effect on the demand for new products and technologies under development, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the market for our product offerings may not develop or continue to expand as we currently anticipate. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing technologies which gain superior market acceptance compared to our products. a significant failure in our new product development efforts or the failure of our products or services to achieve market acceptance relative to our competitors products or services could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries. during 2015, we derived approximately 38% of our revenues from international business, including u.s. exports, and we expect international revenues to continue to increase. conducting business internationally exposes us to additional risks than if we conducted our business solely within the u.s. we maintain manufacturing facilities, service centers, supply centers and other facilities worldwide, including in various emerging market countries. we also have entered into, and expect to continue to enter into, joint venture arrangements in emerging market countries, some of which may require capital investment, guaranties or other commitments. risks related to international operations include import, export and other trade restrictions; changing u.s. and foreign procurement policies and practices; restrictions on technology transfer; difficulties in protecting intellectual property; increasing complexity of employment and environmental, health and safety regulations; foreign investment laws; exchange controls; repatriation of earnings or cash settlement challenges, competition from foreign and multinational firms with home country advantages; economic and government instability, acts of terrorism and related safety concerns. the impact of any one or more of these or other factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. additionally, some international government customers require contractors to agree to specific in-country purchases, technology transfers, manufacturing agreements or financial support arrangements, known as offsets, as a condition for a contract award. the contracts generally extend over several years and may include penalties if we fail to perform in accordance with the offset requirements which are often subjective. we also are exposed to risks associated with using foreign representatives and consultants for international sales and operations and teaming with international subcontractors and suppliers in connection with international programs. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act. although we maintain policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, a violation of such laws by any of our international representatives, consultants, joint ventures, business partners, subcontractors or suppliers, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. we are subject to increasing compliance risks that could adversely affect our operating results. as a global business, we are subject to laws and regulations in the u.s. and other countries in which we operate. our increased focus on international sales and global operations requires importing and exporting goods and technology, some of which have military applications subjecting them to more stringent import-export controls across international borders on a regular basis. for example, we sometimes initially must obtain licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before we are permitted to sell certain of our aerospace and defense products outside the u.s. both u.s. and foreign laws and regulations applicable to us have been increasing in scope and complexity. for example, both u.s. and foreign governments and government agencies regulate the aviation industry, and they may impose new regulations with additional aircraft security or other requirements or restrictions, including, for example, restrictions and/or fees related to carbon emissions levels. changes in environmental laws and regulations, including those enacted in response to climate change concerns and other actions known as green initiatives, could lead to the necessity for new or additional investment in product designs or manufacturing processes and could increase environmental compliance expenditures, including costs to defend regulatory reviews. new or changing laws and regulations or related interpretation and policies could increase our costs of doing business, affect how we conduct our operations, adversely impact demand for our products, and/or limit our ability to sell our products and services. compliance with laws and regulations of increasing scope and complexity is even more challenging in our current business environment in which reducing our operating costs is often necessary to remain competitive. in addition, a violation of u.s. and/or foreign laws by one of our employees or business partners could subject us or our employees to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions, such as denial of import or export privileges and/or debarment as a government contractor which could damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our business. 13 table of contents we are subject to legal proceedings and other claims. we are subject to legal proceedings and other claims arising out of the conduct of our business, including proceedings and claims relating to commercial and financial transactions; government contracts; alleged lack of compliance with applicable laws and regulations; production partners; product liability; patent and trademark infringement; employment disputes; and environmental, safety and health matters. due to the nature of our manufacturing business, we may be subject to liability claims arising from accidents involving our products, including claims for serious personal injuries or death caused by weather or by pilot, driver or user error. in the case of litigation matters for which reserves have not been established because the loss is not deemed probable, it is reasonably possible that such claims could be decided against us and could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures in amounts that are not presently estimable. in addition, we cannot be certain that our reserves are adequate and that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover one or more substantial claims. furthermore, we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage at acceptable levels and costs in the future. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and we could incur judgments, receive adverse arbitration awards or enter into settlements for current or future claims that could adversely affect our financial position or our results of operations in any particular period. intellectual property infringement claims of others and the inability to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our customers. intellectual property infringement claims may be asserted by third parties against us or our customers. any related indemnification payments or legal costs we may be obliged to pay on behalf of our businesses, our customers or other third parties could be costly. in addition, we own the rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names, trade names and trade secrets that are important to our business. the inability to enforce these intellectual property rights may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. additionally, our intellectual property could be at risk due to various cybersecurity threats. certain of our products are subject to laws regulating consumer products and could be subject to repurchase or recall as a result of safety issues. as a distributor of consumer products in the u.s., certain of our products also are subject to the consumer product safety act, which empowers the u.s. consumer product safety commission (cpsc) to exclude from the market products that are found to be unsafe or hazardous. under certain circumstances, the cpsc could require us to repair, replace or refund the purchase price of one or more of our products, or potentially even discontinue entire product lines, or we may voluntarily do so, but within strictures recommended by the cpsc. the cpsc also can impose fines or penalties on a manufacturer for non-compliance with its requirements. furthermore, failure to timely notify the cpsc of a potential safety hazard can result in significant fines being assessed against us. any repurchases or recalls of our products or an imposition of fines or penalties could be costly to us and could damage the reputation or the value of our brands. additionally, laws regulating certain consumer products exist in some states, as well as in other countries in which we sell our products, and more restrictive laws and regulations may be adopted in the future. the increasing costs of certain employee and retiree benefits could adversely affect our results. our earnings and cash flow may be adversely impacted by the amount of income or expense we expend or record for employee benefit plans. this is particularly true for our defined benefit pension plans, where required contributions to those plans and related expenses are driven by, among other things, our assumptions of the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate used for future payment obligations and the rates of future cost growth. additionally, as part of our annual evaluation of these plans, significant changes in our assumptions, due to changes in economic, legislative and/or demographic experience or circumstances, or changes in our actual investment returns could negatively impact the funded status of our plans requiring us to substantially increase our pension liability with a resulting decrease in shareholders equity. also, changes in pension legislation and regulations could increase the cost associated with our defined benefit pension plans. our business could be adversely affected by strikes or work stoppages and other labor issues. approximately 7,200, or 28%, of our u.s. employees are unionized, and many of our non-u.s. employees are represented by organized councils. as a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, resulting in strain on our relationships with our customers and a loss of revenues. the presence of unions also may limit our flexibility in responding to competitive pressures in the marketplace. in addition, the workforces of many of our suppliers and customers are represented by labor unions. work stoppages or strikes at the plants of our key suppliers could disrupt our manufacturing processes; similar actions at the plants of our customers could result in delayed or canceled orders for our products. any of these events could adversely affect our results of operations. currency, raw material price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates. currency variations also contribute to variations in sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. accordingly, fluctuations in foreign currency rates could adversely affect our profitability in future periods. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. in some cases, we purchase 14 table of contents derivatives or enter into contracts to insulate our results of operations from these fluctuations. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates can have substantial adverse effects on our results of operations. we may be unable to effectively mitigate pricing pressures. in some markets, particularly where we deliver component products and services to oems, we face ongoing customer demands for price reductions, which sometimes are contractually obligated. however, if we are unable to effectively mitigate future pricing pressures through technological advances or by lowering our cost base through improved operating and supply chain efficiencies, our results of operations could be adversely affected. unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in both the u.s. and various non-u.s. jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among these different jurisdictions. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes to unrecognized tax benefits or changes in tax laws, which could affect our profitability. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income, as well as changes to applicable statutory tax rates. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a tax authority could affect our profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange risks our financial results are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates in the various countries in which our products are manufactured and/or sold. for our manufacturing operations, we manage exposures to foreign currency assets and earnings primarily by funding certain foreign currency-denominated assets with liabilities in the same currency so that certain exposures are naturally offset. we primarily use borrowings denominated in british pound sterling for these purposes. in managing our foreign currency transaction exposures, we also enter into foreign currency exchange contracts. these contracts generally are used to fix the local currency cost of purchased goods or services or selling prices denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. the notional amount of outstanding foreign currency exchange contracts was approximately $706 million and $696 million at the end of 2015 and 2014, respectively. foreign currency exchange rate changes decreased both revenues and segment profit in 2015 by $244 million and $20 million, respectively. the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes on revenues and segment profit for 2014 and 2013 was not significant. 33 table of contents interest rate risks our financial results are affected by changes in interest rates. as part of managing this risk, we seek to achieve a prudent balance between floating- and fixed-rate exposures. we continually monitor our mix of these exposures and adjust the mix, as necessary. for our finance group, we limit our risk to changes in interest rates with a strategy of matching floating-rate assets with floating-rate liabilities. quantitative risk measures in the normal course of business, we enter into financial instruments for purposes other than trading. the financial instruments that are subject to market risk include finance receivables (excluding leases), debt (excluding capital lease obligations) and foreign currency exchange contracts. to quantify the market risk inherent in these financial instruments, we utilize a sensitivity analysis that includes a hypothetical change in fair value assuming a 10% decrease in interest rates and a 10% strengthening in foreign exchange rates against the u.s. dollar. the fair value of these financial instruments is estimated using discounted cash flow analysis and indicative market pricing as reported by leading financial news and data providers. at the end of each year, the table below provides the carrying and fair values of these financial instruments along with the sensitivity of fair value to the hypothetical changes discussed above. this sensitivity analysis is most likely not indicative of actual results in the future. 2015 2014 ( in millions ) carrying value* fair value* sensitivity of fair value to a 10% change carrying value* fair value* sensitivity of fair value to a 10% change manufacturing group foreign exchange rate risk debt $ (224 ) $ (250 ) $ (25 ) $ (236 ) $ (277 ) $ (28 ) foreign currency exchange contracts (21 ) (21 ) 31 (11 ) (11 ) 52 $ (245 ) $ (271 ) $ 6 $ (247 ) $ (288 ) $ 24 interest rate risk debt $ (2,628 ) $ (2,744 ) $ (18 ) $ (2,742 ) $ (2,944 ) $ (21 ) finance group interest rate risk finance receivables $ 894 $ 850 $ 21 $ 1,039 $ 1,056 $ 20 debt, including intergroup (913 ) (840 ) 19 (1,063 ) (1,051 ) 9 * the value represents an asset or (liability). 34 table of contentsrisk factors our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. the risks discussed below are those that we believe currently are the most significant to our business. we have customer concentration with the u.s. government; reduction in u.s. government defense spending may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. during 2016, we derived approximately 25% of our revenues from sales to a variety of u.s. government entities. our revenues from the u.s. government largely result from contracts awarded to us under various u.s. government defense-related programs. the funding of these programs is subject to congressional appropriation decisions and the u.s. government budget process which includes enacting relevant legislation, such as appropriations bills and accords on the debt ceiling. although multiple-year contracts may be planned in connection with major procurements, congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may continue for several years. consequently, programs often are only partially funded initially, and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. if we incur costs in advance or in excess of funds committed on a contract, we are at risk for non-reimbursement of those costs until additional funds are appropriated. the reduction, termination or delay in the timing of funding for u.s. government programs for which we currently provide or propose to provide products or services may result in a loss of anticipated future revenues that could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. significant changes in national and international policies or priorities for defense spending could impact the funding, or the timing of funding, of our programs, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. under the budget control act of 2011, the u.s. government committed to significantly reduce the federal deficit over ten years. as a result, long-term funding for various programs in which we participate, as well as future purchasing decisions by our u.s. government customers, could be reduced, delayed or cancelled. in addition, these cuts could adversely affect the viability of the suppliers and subcontractors under our programs. there are many variables in how these budget cuts could be implemented that make it difficult to determine specific impacts; however, we expect that sequestration, as currently provided for under the budget control act, would result in lower revenues, profits and cash flows for our company. such circumstances may also result in an impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets. because our u.s. government contracts generally require us to continue to perform even if the u.s. government is unable to make timely payments; if, for example, the debt ceiling is not raised, and, as a result, our customer does not pay us on a timely basis, we may need to finance our continued performance of the impacted contracts from our other resources on an interim basis. an extended delay in the timely payment by the u.s. government could result in a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. u.s. government contracts may be terminated at any time and may contain other unfavorable provisions. the u.s. government typically can terminate or modify any of its contracts with us either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. in the event of termination for the u.s. government convenience, contractors are generally protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contracts and profit on those costs but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. a termination arising out of our default for failure to perform could expose us to liability, including but not limited to, all costs incurred under the contract plus potential liability for re-procurement costs in excess of the total original contract amount, less the value of work performed and accepted by the customer under the contract. such an event could also have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. if any of our contracts are terminated by the u.s. government whether for convenience or default, our backlog and anticipated revenues would be reduced by the expected value of the remaining work under such contracts. we also enter into 10 table of contents fee for service contracts with the u.s. government where we retain ownership of, and consequently the risk of loss on, aircraft and equipment supplied to perform under these contracts. termination of these contracts could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. on contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our products and services as a subcontractor. in addition, in the event that the u.s. government is unable to make timely payments, failure to continue contract performance places the contractor at risk of termination for default. any such event could result in a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to procurement rules and regulations. we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of u.s. government contracts. these laws and regulations, among other things, require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiation, define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based u.s. government contracts, and safeguard and restrict the use and dissemination of classified information, covered defense information, and the exportation of certain products and technical data. our u.s. government contracts contain provisions that allow the u.s. government to unilaterally suspend or debar us from receiving new contracts for a period of time, reduce the value of existing contracts, issue modifications to a contract, and control and potentially prohibit the export of our products, services and associated materials. a number of our u.s. government contracts contain provisions that require us to make disclosure to the inspector general of the agency that is our customer if we have credible evidence that we have violated u.s. criminal laws involving fraud, conflict of interest, or bribery; the u.s. civil false claims act; or received a significant overpayment under a u.s. government contract. failure to properly and timely make disclosures under these provisions may result in a termination for default or cause, suspension and/or debarment, and potential fines. as a u.s. government contractor, our businesses and systems are subject to audit and review by the defense contract audit agency (dcaa) and the defense contract management agency (dcma). we operate in a highly regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the u.s. government and its agencies such as dcaa and dcma. these agencies review our performance under contracts, our cost structure and our compliance with laws and regulations applicable to u.s. government contractors. the systems that are subject to review include, but are not limited to, our accounting, estimating, material management and accounting, earned value management, purchasing and government property systems. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions that may include the termination of our contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and, under certain circumstances, suspension or debarment from future contracts for a period of time. whether or not illegal activities are alleged, the u.s. government also has the ability to decrease or withhold certain payments when it deems systems subject to its review to be inadequate. these laws and regulations affect how we conduct business with our government customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. cost overruns on u.s. government contracts could subject us to losses or adversely affect our future business. under fixed-price contracts, as a general rule, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur, and, consequently, any costs in excess of the fixed price are absorbed by us. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates used in developing the pricing for such contracts may adversely affect our results of operations. additionally, u.s. government procurement policies increasingly favor fixed-price incentive-based fee arrangements rather than traditional fixed-price contracts; these fee arrangements could negatively impact our profitability. other current u.s. government policies could negatively impact our working capital and cash flow. for example, the government has expressed a preference for requiring progress payments rather than performance based payments on new fixed-price contracts, which if implemented, delays our ability to recover a significant amount of costs incurred on a contract and thus affects the timing of our cash flows. under time and materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. under cost-reimbursement contracts that are subject to a contract-ceiling amount, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based, however, if our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs. under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs incurred in performing under the contract, our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. cost overruns also may adversely affect our ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards. demand for our aircraft products is cyclical and could adversely affect our financial results. demand for business jets, turbo props and commercial helicopters has been cyclical and difficult to forecast. therefore, future demand for these products could be significantly and unexpectedly less than anticipated and/or less than previous period deliveries. similarly, t here is uncertainty as to when or whether our existing commercial backlog for aircraft products will convert to revenues as the conversion depends on production capacity, customer needs and credit availability. changes in economic conditions may cause customers to request that firm orders be rescheduled or cancelled. reduced demand for our aircraft products or delays or cancellations of orders could result in a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. 11 table of contents we may make acquisitions that increase the risks of our business. we may enter into acquisitions in an effort to expand our business and enhance shareholder value. acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties that could result in our not achieving expected benefits. such risks include difficulties in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner; challenges in achieving expected strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits; the risk that the acquired businesses markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the acquired businesses products and technologies do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; the risk that our due diligence reviews of the acquired business do not identify or adequately assess all of the material issues which impact valuation of the business or that may result in costs or liabilities in excess of what we anticipated; the risk that we pay a purchase price that exceeds what the future results of operations would have merited; the risk that the acquired business may have significant internal control deficiencies or exposure to regulatory sanctions; and the potential loss of key customers, suppliers and employees of the acquired businesses. in addition, unanticipated delays or difficulties in effecting acquisitions may prevent the consummation of the acquisition or divert the attention of our management and resources from our existing operations. if our finance segment is unable to maintain portfolio credit quality, our financial performance could be adversely affected . a key determinant of the financial performance of our finance segment is the quality of loans, leases and other assets in its portfolio. portfolio quality may be adversely affected by several factors, including finance receivable underwriting procedures, collateral value, geographic or industry concentrations, and the effect of general economic conditions. in addition, a majority of the new originations in our finance receivable portfolio are cross-border transactions for aircraft sold outside of the u.s. cross-border transactions present additional challenges and risks in realizing upon collateral in the event of borrower default, which may result in difficulty or delay in collecting on the related finance receivables. if our finance segment has difficulty successfully collecting its finance receivable portfolio, our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may need to obtain financing in the future; such financing may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all. we may periodically need to obtain financing in order to meet our debt obligations as they come due, to support our operations and/or to make acquisitions. our access to the debt capital markets and the cost of borrowings are affected by a number of factors including market conditions and the strength of our credit ratings. if we cannot obtain adequate sources of credit on favorable terms, or at all, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. failure to perform by our subcontractors or suppliers could adversely affect our performance. we rely on other companies to provide raw materials, major components and subsystems for our products. subcontractors also perform services that we provide to our customers in certain circumstances. we depend on these suppliers and subcontractors to meet our contractual obligations to our customers and conduct our operations. our ability to meet our obligations to our customers may be adversely affected if suppliers or subcontractors do not provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services in compliance with customer requirements and in a timely and cost-effective manner. likewise, the quality of our products may be adversely impacted if companies to whom we delegate manufacture of major components or subsystems for our products, or from whom we acquire such items, do not provide components or subsystems which meet required specifications and perform to our and our customers expectations. our suppliers may be less likely than us to be able to quickly recover from natural disasters and other events beyond their control and may be subject to additional risks such as financial problems that limit their ability to conduct their operations. the risk of these adverse effects may be greater in circumstances where we rely on only one or two subcontractors or suppliers for a particular raw material, product or service. in particular, in the aircraft industry, most vendor parts are certified by the regulatory agencies as part of the overall type certificate for the aircraft being produced by the manufacturer. if a vendor does not or cannot supply its parts, then the manufacturer production line may be stopped until the manufacturer can design, manufacture and certify a similar part itself or identify and certify another similar vendor part, resulting in significant delays in the completion of aircraft. such events may adversely affect our financial results, damage our reputation and relationships with our customers, and result in regulatory actions and/or litigation. our business could be negatively impacted by information technology disruptions and security threats. our information technology (it) and related systems are critical to the smooth operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day to day operations. from time to time, we update and/or replace it systems used by our businesses. the implementation of new systems can present temporary disruptions of business activities as existing processes are transitioned to the new systems, resulting in productivity issues, including delays in production, shipments or other business operations. in addition, we outsource certain support functions, including certain global it infrastructure services, to third-party service providers. any disruption of such outsourced processes or functions also could have a material adverse impact on our operations. in addition, as a u.s. defense contractor, we face certain security threats, including threats to our it infrastructure, unlawful attempts to gain access to our proprietary or classified information and threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, as do our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and joint venture partners. cybersecurity threats, such as malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to our confidential, classified or otherwise proprietary information or that of our employees or customers, as well as other security breaches, are persistent, continue to evolve and require highly skilled it resources. while we have experienced cybersecurity attacks, we have not suffered any material losses relating to such attacks, and we believe our threat detection and 12 table of contents mitigation processes and procedures are robust. due to the evolving nature of these security threats, the possibility of future material incidents cannot be completely mitigated. an it system failure, issues related to implementation of new it systems or breach of data security, whether of our systems or the systems of our service providers or other third parties who may have access to our data for business purposes, could disrupt our operations, cause the loss of business information or compromise confidential information. such an incident also could require significant management attention and resources and increased costs, and could adversely affect our competitiveness and our results of operations. developing new products and technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties. to continue to grow our revenues and segment profit, we must successfully develop new products and technologies or modify our existing products and technologies for our current and future markets. our future performance depends, in part, on our ability to identify emerging technological trends and customer requirements and to develop and maintain competitive products and services. delays or cost overruns in the development and acceptance of new products, or certification of new aircraft and other products, could affect our results of operations. these delays could be caused by unanticipated technological hurdles, production changes to meet customer demands, unanticipated difficulties in obtaining required regulatory certifications of new aircraft or other products, coordination with joint venture partners or failure on the part of our suppliers to deliver components as agreed. we also could be adversely affected if our research and development investments are less successful than expected or if we do not adequately protect the intellectual property developed through these efforts. likewise, new products and technologies could generate unanticipated safety or other concerns resulting in expanded product liability risks, potential product recalls and other regulatory issues that could have an adverse impact on us. furthermore, because of the lengthy research and development cycle involved in bringing certain of our products to market, we cannot predict the economic conditions that will exist when any new product is complete. a reduction in capital spending in the aerospace or defense industries could have a significant effect on the demand for new products and technologies under development, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the market for our product offerings may not develop or continue to expand as we currently anticipate. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing technologies which gain superior market acceptance compared to our products. a significant failure in our new product development efforts or the failure of our products or services to achieve market acceptance relative to our competitors products or services could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries. during 2016, we derived approximately 38% of our revenues from international business, including u.s. exports, and we expect international revenues to continue to increase. conducting business internationally exposes us to additional risks than if we conducted our business solely within the u.s. we maintain manufacturing facilities, service centers, supply centers and other facilities worldwide, including in various emerging market countries. we also have entered into, and expect to continue to enter into, joint venture arrangements in emerging market countries, some of which may require capital investment, guaranties or other commitments. risks related to international operations include import, export and other trade restrictions; changing u.s. and foreign procurement policies and practices; restrictions on technology transfer; difficulties in protecting intellectual property; increasing complexity of employment and environmental, health and safety regulations; foreign investment laws; exchange controls; repatriation of earnings or cash settlement challenges, competition from foreign and multinational firms with home country advantages; economic and government instability, acts of terrorism and related safety concerns. the impact of any one or more of these or other factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. additionally, some international government customers require contractors to agree to specific in-country purchases, technology transfers, manufacturing agreements or financial support arrangements, known as offsets, as a condition for a contract award. the contracts generally extend over several years and may include penalties if we fail to perform in accordance with the offset requirements which are often subjective. we also are exposed to risks associated with using foreign representatives and consultants for international sales and operations and teaming with international subcontractors and suppliers in connection with international programs. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act. although we maintain policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, a violation of such laws by any of our international representatives, consultants, joint ventures, business partners, subcontractors or suppliers, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. we are subject to increasing compliance risks that could adversely affect our operating results. as a global business, we are subject to laws and regulations in the u.s. and other countries in which we operate. our increased focus on international sales and global operations requires importing and exporting goods and technology, some of which have military applications subjecting them to more stringent import-export controls across international borders on a regular basis. for example, we sometimes initially must obtain licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before we are permitted to sell certain of our aerospace and defense products outside the u.s. both u.s. and foreign laws and regulations applicable to us have been increasing in scope and complexity. for example, both u.s. and foreign governments and government agencies regulate the 13 table of contents aviation industry, and they may impose new regulations with additional aircraft security or other requirements or restrictions, including, for example, restrictions and/or fees related to carbon emissions levels. changes in environmental laws and regulations, including those enacted in response to climate change concerns and other actions known as green initiatives, could lead to the necessity for new or additional investment in product designs or manufacturing processes and could increase environmental compliance expenditures, including costs to defend regulatory reviews. new or changing laws and regulations or related interpretation and policies could increase our costs of doing business, affect how we conduct our operations, adversely impact demand for our products, and/or limit our ability to sell our products and services. compliance with laws and regulations of increasing scope and complexity is even more challenging in our current business environment in which reducing our operating costs is often necessary to remain competitive. in addition, a violation of u.s. and/or foreign laws by one of our employees or business partners could subject us or our employees to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions, such as denial of import or export privileges and/or debarment as a government contractor which could damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our business. we are subject to legal proceedings and other claims. we are subject to legal proceedings and other claims arising out of the conduct of our business, including proceedings and claims relating to commercial and financial transactions; government contracts; alleged lack of compliance with applicable laws and regulations; production partners; product liability; patent and trademark infringement; employment disputes; and environmental, safety and health matters. due to the nature of our manufacturing business, we may be subject to liability claims arising from accidents involving our products, including claims for serious personal injuries or death caused by weather or by pilot, driver or user error. in the case of litigation matters for which reserves have not been established because the loss is not deemed probable, it is reasonably possible that such claims could be decided against us and could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures in amounts that are not presently estimable. in addition, we cannot be certain that our reserves are adequate and that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover one or more substantial claims. furthermore, we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage at acceptable levels and costs in the future. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and we could incur judgments, receive adverse arbitration awards or enter into settlements for current or future claims that could adversely affect our financial position or our results of operations in any particular period. intellectual property infringement claims of others and the inability to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our customers. intellectual property infringement claims may be asserted by third parties against us or our customers. any related indemnification payments or legal costs we may be obliged to pay on behalf of our businesses, our customers or other third parties could be costly. in addition, we own the rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names, trade names and trade secrets that are important to our business. the inability to enforce these intellectual property rights may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. additionally, our intellectual property could be at risk due to various cybersecurity threats. certain of our products are subject to laws regulating consumer products and could be subject to repurchase or recall as a result of safety issues. as a distributor of consumer products in the u.s., certain of our products also are subject to the consumer product safety act, which empowers the u.s. consumer product safety commission (cpsc) to exclude from the market products that are found to be unsafe or hazardous. under certain circumstances, the cpsc could require us to repair, replace or refund the purchase price of one or more of our products, or potentially even discontinue entire product lines, or we may voluntarily do so, but within strictures recommended by the cpsc. the cpsc also can impose fines or penalties on a manufacturer for non-compliance with its requirements. furthermore, failure to timely notify the cpsc of a potential safety hazard can result in significant fines being assessed against us. any repurchases or recalls of our products or an imposition of fines or penalties could be costly to us and could damage the reputation or the value of our brands. additionally, laws regulating certain consumer products exist in some states, as well as in other countries in which we sell our products, and more restrictive laws and regulations may be adopted in the future. the increasing costs of certain employee and retiree benefits could adversely affect our results. our earnings and cash flow may be adversely impacted by the amount of income or expense we expend or record for employee benefit plans. this is particularly true for our defined benefit pension plans, where required contributions to those plans and related expenses are driven by, among other things, our assumptions of the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate used for future payment obligations and the rates of future cost growth. additionally, as part of our annual evaluation of these plans, significant changes in our assumptions, due to changes in economic, legislative and/or demographic experience or circumstances, or changes in our actual investment returns could negatively impact the funded status of our plans requiring us to substantially increase our pension liability with a resulting decrease in shareholders equity. also, changes in pension legislation and regulations could increase the cost associated with our defined benefit pension plans. 14 table of contents our business could be adversely affected by strikes or work stoppages and other labor issues. approximately 7,300, or 28%, of our u.s. employees are unionized, and many of our non-u.s. employees are represented by organized councils. as a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, resulting in strain on our relationships with our customers and a loss of revenues. the presence of unions also may limit our flexibility in responding to competitive pressures in the marketplace. in addition, the workforces of many of our suppliers and customers are represented by labor unions. work stoppages or strikes at the plants of our key suppliers could disrupt our manufacturing processes; similar actions at the plants of our customers could result in delayed or canceled orders for our products. any of these events could adversely affect our results of operations. currency, raw material price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates. currency variations also contribute to variations in sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. accordingly, fluctuations in foreign currency rates could adversely affect our profitability in future periods. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. in some cases, we purchase derivatives or enter into contracts to insulate our results of operations from these fluctuations. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates can have substantial adverse effects on our results of operations. we may be unable to effectively mitigate pricing pressures. in some markets, particularly where we deliver component products and services to oems, we face ongoing customer demands for price reductions, which sometimes are contractually obligated. however, if we are unable to effectively mitigate future pricing pressures through technological advances or by lowering our cost base through improved operating and supply chain efficiencies, our results of operations could be adversely affected. unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and various non-u.s. jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the location of income among these different jurisdictions. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings indefinitely reinvested offshore, changes to unrecognized tax benefits or changes in tax laws, which could affect our profitability. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income, as well as changes to applicable statutory tax rates. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a tax authority could affect our profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange risks our financial results are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates in the various countries in which our products are manufactured and/or sold. for our manufacturing operations, we manage exposures to foreign currency assets and earnings primarily by funding certain foreign currency-denominated assets with liabilities in the same currency so that certain exposures are naturally offset. we primarily use borrowings denominated in british pound sterling for these purposes. in managing our foreign currency transaction exposures, we also enter into foreign currency exchange contracts. these contracts generally are used to fix the local currency cost of purchased goods or services or selling prices denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. the notional amount of outstanding foreign currency exchange contracts was approximately $665 million and $706 million at the end of 2016 and 2015, respectively. foreign currency exchange rate changes decreased both revenues and segment profit in 2016 by $36 million and $12 million, respectively, and in 2015 by $244 million and $20 million, respectively. the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes on revenues and segment profit for 2014 was not significant. interest rate risks our financial results are affected by changes in interest rates. as part of managing this risk, we seek to achieve a prudent balance between floating- and fixed-rate exposures. we continually monitor our mix of these exposures and adjust the mix, as necessary. for our finance group, we limit our risk to changes in interest rates with a strategy of matching floating-rate assets with floating-rate liabilities. quantitative risk measures in the normal course of business, we enter into financial instruments for purposes other than trading. the financial instruments that are subject to market risk include finance receivables (excluding leases), debt (excluding capital lease obligations) and foreign currency exchange contracts. to quantify the market risk inherent in these financial instruments, we utilize a sensitivity analysis that includes a hypothetical change in fair value assuming a 10% decrease in interest rates and a 10% strengthening in foreign exchange rates against the u.s. dollar. the fair value of these financial instruments is estimated using discounted cash flow analysis and indicative market pricing as reported by leading financial news and data providers. at the end of each year, the table below provides the carrying and fair values of these financial instruments along with the sensitivity of fair value to the hypothetical changes discussed above. this sensitivity analysis is most likely not indicative of actual results in the future. 2016 2015 ( in millions ) carrying value* fair value* sensitivity of fair value to a 10% change carrying value* fair value* sensitivity of fair value to a 10% change manufacturing group foreign exchange rate risk debt $ (187) $ (211) $ (21) $ (224) $ (250) $ (25) foreign currency exchange contracts (3) (3) 29 (21) (21) 31 $ (190) $ (214) $ 8 $ (245) $ (271) $ 6 interest rate risk debt $ (2,690 ) $ (2,809 ) $ (22 ) $ (2,628 ) $ (2,744 ) $ (18 ) finance group interest rate risk finance receivables $ 759 $ 788 $ 15 $ 894 $ 850 $ 21 debt (903) (831) 20 (913) (840) 19 * the value represents an asset or (liability). 35 table of contentsrisk factors our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. the risks discussed below are those that we believe currently are the most significant to our business. we have customer concentration with the u.s. government; reduction in u.s. government defense spending may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. during 2017, we derived approximately 22% of our revenues from sales to a variety of u.s. government entities. our revenues from the u.s. government largely result from contracts awarded to us under various u.s. government defense-related programs. the funding of these programs is subject to congressional appropriation decisions and the u.s. government budget process which includes enacting relevant legislation, such as appropriations bills and accords on the debt ceiling. although multiple-year contracts may be planned in connection with major procurements, congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may continue for several years. consequently, programs often are only partially funded initially, and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. further uncertainty with respect to ongoing programs could also result in the event that the u.s. government finances its operations through temporary funding measures such as continuing resolutions rather than full-year appropriations. if we incur costs in advance or in excess of funds committed on a contract, we are at risk for non-reimbursement of those costs until additional funds are appropriated. the reduction, termination or delay in the timing of funding for u.s. government programs for which we currently provide or propose to provide products or services may result in a loss of anticipated future revenues that could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. significant changes in national and international policies or priorities for defense spending could impact the funding, or the timing of funding, of our programs, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. under the budget control act of 2011, the u.s. government committed to significantly reduce the federal deficit over ten years. as a result, long-term funding for various programs in which we participate, as well as future purchasing decisions by our u.s. government customers, could be reduced, delayed or cancelled. in addition, these cuts could adversely affect the viability of the suppliers and subcontractors under our programs. there are many variables in how these budget cuts could be implemented that make it difficult to determine specific impacts; however, we expect that sequestration, as currently provided for under the budget control act, would result in lower revenues, profits and cash flows for our company. such circumstances may also result in an impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets. because our u.s. government contracts generally require us to continue to perform even if the u.s. government is unable to make timely payments; if, for example, the debt ceiling is not raised, and, as a result, our customer does not pay us on a timely basis, we may need to finance our continued performance of the impacted contracts from our other resources on an interim basis. an extended delay in the timely payment by the u.s. government could result in a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. u.s. government contracts may be terminated at any time and may contain other unfavorable provisions. the u.s. government typically can terminate or modify any of its contracts with us either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. in the event of termination for the u.s. government convenience, contractors are generally protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contracts and profit on those costs but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. a termination arising out of our default for failure to perform could expose us to liability, including but not limited to, all costs incurred under the contract plus potential liability for re-procurement costs in excess of the total original contract amount, less the value of work performed and accepted by the customer under the contract. such an event could also have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. if any of our contracts are terminated by the u.s. government whether for convenience or default, our backlog and anticipated revenues would be reduced by the expected value of the remaining work under such contracts. we also enter into fee for service contracts with the u.s. government where we retain ownership of, and consequently the risk of loss on, aircraft 10 table of contents and equipment supplied to perform under these contracts. termination of these contracts could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. on contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our products and services as a subcontractor. in addition, in the event that the u.s. government is unable to make timely payments, failure to continue contract performance places the contractor at risk of termination for default. any such event could result in a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to procurement rules and regulations. we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of u.s. government contracts. these laws and regulations, among other things, require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiation, define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based u.s. government contracts, and safeguard and restrict the use and dissemination of classified information, covered defense information, and the exportation of certain products and technical data. new laws, regulations or procurement requirements or changes to current ones (including, for example, regulations related to cybersecurity) can significantly increase our costs and risks and reduce our profitability. our failure to comply with procurement regulations and requirements could allow the u.s. government to suspend or debar us from receiving new contracts for a period of time, reduce the value of existing contracts, issue modifications to a contract, withhold cash on contract payments, and control and potentially prohibit the export of our products, services and associated materials, any of which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. a number of our u.s. government contracts contain provisions that require us to make disclosure to the inspector general of the agency that is our customer if we have credible evidence that we have violated u.s. criminal laws involving fraud, conflict of interest, or bribery; the u.s. civil false claims act; or received a significant overpayment under a u.s. government contract. failure to properly and timely make disclosures under these provisions may result in a termination for default or cause, suspension and/or debarment, and potential fines. as a u.s. government contractor, our businesses and systems are subject to audit and review by the defense contract audit agency (dcaa) and the defense contract management agency (dcma). we operate in a highly regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the u.s. government and its agencies such as dcaa and dcma. these agencies review our performance under contracts, our cost structure and our compliance with laws and regulations applicable to u.s. government contractors. the systems that are subject to review include, but are not limited to, our accounting, estimating, material management and accounting, earned value management, purchasing and government property systems. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions that may include the termination of our contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and, under certain circumstances, suspension or debarment from future contracts for a period of time. whether or not illegal activities are alleged, the u.s. government also has the ability to decrease or withhold certain payments when it deems systems subject to its review to be inadequate. these laws and regulations affect how we conduct business with our government customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. the use of multi-award contracts by the u.s. government may increase competition and pricing pressure. the u.s. government increasingly relies upon competitive contract award types, including indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity and multi-award contracts, which have the potential to create greater competition and increased pricing pressure, as well as to increase our cost by requiring that we submit multiple bids. in addition, multi-award contracts require that we make sustained efforts to obtain task orders and delivery orders under the contract. further, the competitive bidding process is costly and demands managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us or may be split among competitors. our profitability and cash flow may vary depending on the mix of our government contracts and our ability to control costs . under fixed-price contracts, generally we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur, and, consequently, any costs in excess of the fixed price are absorbed by us. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates used in developing the pricing for such contracts may adversely affect our results of operations. additionally, fixed-price contracts may require progress payments rather than performance based payments which can delay our ability to recover a significant amount of costs incurred on a contract and thus affect the timing of our cash flows. fixed-price incentive-based fee arrangements provide that allowable costs incurred are reimbursable but are subject to a cost-share which could negatively impact our profitability. under time and materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. under cost-reimbursement contracts that are subject to a contract-ceiling amount, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based, however, if our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs. under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs incurred in performing under the contract, our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. cost overruns also may adversely affect our ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards. 11 table of contents demand for our aircraft products is cyclical and could adversely affect our financial results. demand for business jets, turbo props and commercial helicopters has been cyclical and difficult to forecast. therefore, future demand for these products could be significantly and unexpectedly less than anticipated and/or less than previous period deliveries. similarly, t here is uncertainty as to when or whether our existing commercial backlog for aircraft products will convert to revenues as the conversion depends on production capacity, customer needs and credit availability. changes in economic conditions may cause customers to request that firm orders be rescheduled or cancelled. reduced demand for our aircraft products or delays or cancellations of orders could result in a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. we may make acquisitions that increase the risks of our business. we may enter into acquisitions in an effort to expand our business and enhance shareholder value. acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties that could result in our not achieving expected benefits. such risks include difficulties in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner; challenges in achieving expected strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits; the risk that the acquired businesses markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the acquired businesses products and technologies do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; the risk that our due diligence reviews of the acquired business do not identify or adequately assess all of the material issues which impact valuation of the business or that may result in costs or liabilities in excess of what we anticipated; the risk that we pay a purchase price that exceeds what the future results of operations would have merited; the risk that the acquired business may have significant internal control deficiencies or exposure to regulatory sanctions; and the potential loss of key customers, suppliers and employees of the acquired businesses. in addition, unanticipated delays or difficulties in effecting acquisitions may prevent the consummation of the acquisition or divert the attention of our management and resources from our existing operations. if our finance segment is unable to maintain portfolio credit quality, our financial performance could be adversely affected . a key determinant of the financial performance of our finance segment is the quality of loans, leases and other assets in its portfolio. portfolio quality may be adversely affected by several factors, including finance receivable underwriting procedures, collateral value, geographic or industry concentrations, and the effect of general economic conditions. in addition, a substantial number of the new originations in our finance receivable portfolio are cross-border transactions for aircraft sold outside of the u.s. cross-border transactions present additional challenges and risks in realizing upon collateral in the event of borrower default, which may result in difficulty or delay in collecting on the related finance receivables. if our finance segment has difficulty successfully collecting its finance receivable portfolio, our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may need to obtain financing in the future; such financing may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all. we may periodically need to obtain financing in order to meet our debt obligations as they come due, to support our operations and/or to make acquisitions. our access to the debt capital markets and the cost of borrowings are affected by a number of factors including market conditions and the strength of our credit ratings. if we cannot obtain adequate sources of credit on favorable terms, or at all, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. failure to perform by our subcontractors or suppliers could adversely affect our performance. we rely on other companies to provide raw materials, major components and subsystems for our products. subcontractors also perform services that we provide to our customers in certain circumstances. we depend on these suppliers and subcontractors to meet our contractual obligations to our customers and conduct our operations. our ability to meet our obligations to our customers may be adversely affected if suppliers or subcontractors do not provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services in compliance with customer requirements and in a timely and cost-effective manner. likewise, the quality of our products may be adversely impacted if companies to whom we delegate manufacture of major components or subsystems for our products, or from whom we acquire such items, do not provide components or subsystems which meet required specifications and perform to our and our customers expectations. our suppliers may be less likely than us to be able to quickly recover from natural disasters and other events beyond their control and may be subject to additional risks such as financial problems that limit their ability to conduct their operations. the risk of these adverse effects may be greater in circumstances where we rely on only one or two subcontractors or suppliers for a particular raw material, product or service. in particular, in the aircraft industry, most vendor parts are certified by the regulatory agencies as part of the overall type certificate for the aircraft being produced by the manufacturer. if a vendor does not or cannot supply its parts, then the manufacturer production line may be stopped until the manufacturer can design, manufacture and certify a similar part itself or identify and certify another similar vendor part, resulting in significant delays in the completion of aircraft. such events may adversely affect our financial results, damage our reputation and relationships with our customers, and result in regulatory actions and/or litigation. our business could be negatively impacted by information technology disruptions and security threats. our information technology (it) and related systems are critical to the smooth operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day to day operations. from time to time, we update and/or replace it systems used by our businesses. the implementation of new systems can present temporary disruptions of business activities as existing processes are transitioned to the new systems, resulting in productivity issues, including delays in production, shipments or other business operations. in addition, 12 table of contents we outsource certain support functions, including certain global it infrastructure services, to third-party service providers. any disruption of such outsourced processes or functions also could have a material adverse impact on our operations. in addition, as a u.s. defense contractor, we face certain security threats, including threats to our it infrastructure, unlawful attempts to gain access to our information and threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, as do our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and joint venture partners. cybersecurity threats, such as malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to our confidential, classified or otherwise proprietary information or that of our employees or customers, as well as other security breaches, are persistent, continue to evolve and require highly skilled it resources. while we have experienced cybersecurity attacks, we have not suffered any material losses relating to such attacks, and we believe our threat detection and mitigation processes and procedures are robust. due to the evolving nature of these security threats, the possibility of future material incidents cannot be completely mitigated. future attacks or breach of data security, whether of our systems or the systems of our service providers or other third parties who may have access to our data for business purposes, could disrupt our operations, cause the loss of business information or compromise confidential information, exposing us to liability or regulatory action. such an incident also could require significant management attention and resources, increase costs, which may not be covered by insurance, and result in reputational damage, potentially adversely affecting our competitiveness and our results of operations. developing new products and technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties. to continue to grow our revenues and segment profit, we must successfully develop new products and technologies or modify our existing products and technologies for our current and future markets. our future performance depends, in part, on our ability to identify emerging technological trends and customer requirements and to develop and maintain competitive products and services. delays or cost overruns in the development and acceptance of new products, or certification of new aircraft and other products, could affect our results of operations. these delays could be caused by unanticipated technological hurdles, production changes to meet customer demands, unanticipated difficulties in obtaining required regulatory certifications of new aircraft or other products, coordination with joint venture partners or failure on the part of our suppliers to deliver components as agreed. we also could be adversely affected if our research and development investments are less successful than expected or if we do not adequately protect the intellectual property developed through these efforts. likewise, new products and technologies could generate unanticipated safety or other concerns resulting in expanded product liability risks, potential product recalls and other regulatory issues that could have an adverse impact on us. furthermore, because of the lengthy research and development cycle involved in bringing certain of our products to market, we cannot predict the economic conditions that will exist when any new product is complete. a reduction in capital spending in the aerospace or defense industries could have a significant effect on the demand for new products and technologies under development, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, our investments in equipment or technology that we believe will enable us to obtain future service contracts for our u.s. government or other customers may not result in contracts or revenues sufficient to offset such investment. the market for our product offerings may not develop or continue to expand as we currently anticipate. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing technologies which gain superior market acceptance compared to our products. a significant failure in our new product development efforts or the failure of our products or services to achieve market acceptance relative to our competitors products or services could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries. during 2017, we derived approximately 38% of our revenues from international business, including u.s. exports, and we expect international revenues to continue to increase. conducting business internationally exposes us to additional risks than if we conducted our business solely within the u.s. we maintain manufacturing facilities, service centers, supply centers and other facilities worldwide, including in various emerging market countries. we also have entered into, and expect to continue to enter into, joint venture arrangements in emerging market countries, some of which may require capital investment, guaranties or other commitments. risks related to international operations include import, export and other trade restrictions; changing u.s. and foreign procurement policies and practices; restrictions on technology transfer; difficulties in protecting intellectual property; increasing complexity of employment and environmental, health and safety regulations; foreign investment laws; exchange controls; repatriation of earnings or cash settlement challenges, competition from foreign and multinational firms with home country advantages; economic and government instability, acts of terrorism and related safety concerns. the impact of any one or more of these or other factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. additionally, some international government customers require contractors to agree to specific in-country purchases, technology transfers, manufacturing agreements or financial support arrangements, known as offsets, as a condition for a contract award. the contracts generally extend over several years and may include penalties if we fail to perform in accordance with the offset requirements which are often subjective. we also are exposed to risks associated with using foreign representatives and consultants for international sales and operations and teaming with international subcontractors and suppliers in connection with international programs. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act. although we maintain policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, a violation of such laws by any of our international representatives, 13 table of contents consultants, joint ventures, business partners, subcontractors or suppliers, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. we are subject to increasing compliance risks that could adversely affect our operating results. as a global business, we are subject to laws and regulations in the u.s. and other countries in which we operate. our increased focus on international sales and global operations requires importing and exporting goods and technology, some of which have military applications subjecting them to more stringent import-export controls across international borders on a regular basis. for example, we sometimes initially must obtain licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before we are permitted to sell certain of our aerospace and defense products outside the u.s. both u.s. and foreign laws and regulations applicable to us have been increasing in scope and complexity. for example, both u.s. and foreign governments and government agencies regulate the aviation industry, and they may impose new regulations with additional aircraft security or other requirements or restrictions, including, for example, restrictions and/or fees related to carbon emissions levels. changes in environmental and climate change laws and regulations, including laws relating to greenhouse gas emissions, could lead to the necessity for new or additional investment in product designs or manufacturing processes and could increase environmental compliance expenditures, including costs to defend regulatory reviews. new or changing laws and regulations or related interpretation and policies could increase our costs of doing business, affect how we conduct our operations, adversely impact demand for our products, and/or limit our ability to sell our products and services. compliance with laws and regulations of increasing scope and complexity is even more challenging in our current business environment in which reducing our operating costs is often necessary to remain competitive. in addition, a violation of u.s. and/or foreign laws by one of our employees or business partners could subject us or our employees to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions, such as denial of import or export privileges and/or debarment as a government contractor which could damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our business. we are subject to legal proceedings and other claims. we are subject to legal proceedings and other claims arising out of the conduct of our business, including proceedings and claims relating to commercial and financial transactions; government contracts; alleged lack of compliance with applicable laws and regulations; production partners; product liability; patent and trademark infringement; employment disputes; and environmental, safety and health matters. due to the nature of our manufacturing business, we may be subject to liability claims arising from accidents involving our products, including claims for serious personal injuries or death caused by weather or by pilot, driver or user error. in the case of litigation matters for which reserves have not been established because the loss is not deemed probable, it is reasonably possible that such claims could be decided against us and could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures in amounts that are not presently estimable. in addition, we cannot be certain that our reserves are adequate and that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover one or more substantial claims. furthermore, we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage at acceptable levels and costs in the future. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and we could incur judgments, receive adverse arbitration awards or enter into settlements for current or future claims that could adversely affect our financial position or our results of operations in any particular period. intellectual property infringement claims of others and the inability to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our customers. intellectual property infringement claims may be asserted by third parties against us or our customers. any related indemnification payments or legal costs we may be obliged to pay on behalf of our businesses, our customers or other third parties could be costly. in addition, we own the rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names, trade names and trade secrets that are important to our business. the inability to enforce these intellectual property rights may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. additionally, our intellectual property could be at risk due to various cybersecurity threats. certain of our products are subject to laws regulating consumer products and could be subject to repurchase or recall as a result of safety issues. as a distributor of consumer products in the u.s., certain of our products also are subject to the consumer product safety act, which empowers the u.s. consumer product safety commission (cpsc) to exclude from the market products that are found to be unsafe or hazardous. under certain circumstances, the cpsc could require us to repair, replace or refund the purchase price of one or more of our products, or potentially even discontinue entire product lines, or we may voluntarily do so, but within strictures recommended by the cpsc. the cpsc also can impose fines or penalties on a manufacturer for non-compliance with its requirements. furthermore, failure to timely notify the cpsc of a potential safety hazard can result in significant fines being assessed against us. any repurchases or recalls of our products or an imposition of fines or penalties could be costly to us and could damage the reputation or the value of our brands. additionally, laws regulating certain consumer products exist in some states, as well as in other countries in which we sell our products, and more restrictive laws and regulations may be adopted in the future. the increasing costs of certain employee and retiree benefits could adversely affect our results. our earnings and cash flow may be adversely impacted by the amount of income or expense we expend or record for employee benefit plans. this is particularly true for our defined benefit pension plans, where required contributions to those plans and related 14 table of contents expenses are driven by, among other things, our assumptions of the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate used for future payment obligations and the rates of future cost growth. additionally, as part of our annual evaluation of these plans, significant changes in our assumptions, due to changes in economic, legislative and/or demographic experience or circumstances, or changes in our actual investment returns could negatively impact the funded status of our plans requiring us to substantially increase our pension liability with a resulting decrease in shareholders equity. also, changes in pension legislation and regulations could increase the cost associated with our defined benefit pension plans. our business could be adversely affected by strikes or work stoppages and other labor issues. approximately 7,200, or 27%, of our u.s. employees are unionized, and many of our non-u.s. employees are represented by organized councils. as a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, resulting in strain on our relationships with our customers and a loss of revenues. the presence of unions also may limit our flexibility in responding to competitive pressures in the marketplace. in addition, the workforces of many of our suppliers and customers are represented by labor unions. work stoppages or strikes at the plants of our key suppliers could disrupt our manufacturing processes; similar actions at the plants of our customers could result in delayed or canceled orders for our products. any of these events could adversely affect our results of operations. currency, raw material price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates. currency variations also contribute to variations in sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. accordingly, fluctuations in foreign currency rates could adversely affect our profitability in future periods. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. in some cases, we purchase derivatives or enter into contracts to insulate our results of operations from these fluctuations. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates can have substantial adverse effects on our results of operations. we may be unable to effectively mitigate pricing pressures. in some markets, particularly where we deliver component products and services to oems, we face ongoing customer demands for price reductions, which sometimes are contractually obligated. however, if we are unable to effectively mitigate future pricing pressures through technological advances or by lowering our cost base through improved operating and supply chain efficiencies, our results of operations could be adversely affected. unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and various non-u.s. jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the location of income among these different jurisdictions. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings indefinitely reinvested offshore, changes to unrecognized tax benefits or changes in tax laws, which could affect our profitability. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income, as well as changes to applicable statutory tax rates. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a tax authority could affect our profitability. the tax cuts and jobs act (the act ) was enacted on december 22, 2017 and significantly changed u.s. income tax law. we have made provisional estimates of the impact of the act on the remeasurement of our net deferred tax assets and the one-time transition tax in 2017. however, the financial reporting effects of the act are complex and are subject to change as guidance interpreting the act is issued. the effect of such guidance, as well as any additional tax reform legislation in the united states or elsewhere, could adversely affect our effective tax rate, have a material impact on the value of our deferred tax assets or increase our future u.s. tax expense. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange risks our financial results are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates in the various countries in which our products are manufactured and/or sold. for our manufacturing operations, we manage our foreign currency transaction exposures by entering into foreign currency exchange contracts. these contracts generally are used to fix the local currency cost of purchased goods or services or selling prices denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. the notional amount of outstanding foreign currency exchange contracts was approximately $426 million and $665 million at december 30, 2017 and december 31, 2016, respectively. we also manage exposures to foreign currency assets and earnings primarily by funding certain foreign currency-denominated assets with liabilities in the same currency so that certain exposures are naturally offset. we primarily use borrowings denominated in british pound sterling for these purposes. the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes on our consolidated financial statements are as follows: (in millions) 2017 2016 2015 increase (decrease) in revenues $ 27 $ (36) $ (244) decrease in segment profit (1) (12) (20) interest rate risks our financial results are affected by changes in interest rates. as part of managing this risk, we seek to achieve a prudent balance between floating- and fixed-rate exposures. we continually monitor our mix of these exposures and adjust the mix, as necessary. for our finance group, we limit our risk to changes in interest rates with a strategy of matching floating-rate assets with floating-rate liabilities. quantitative risk measures in the normal course of business, we enter into financial instruments for purposes other than trading. the financial instruments that are subject to market risk include finance receivables (excluding leases), debt (excluding capital lease obligations) and foreign currency exchange contracts. to quantify the market risk inherent in these financial instruments, we utilize a sensitivity analysis that includes a hypothetical change in fair value assuming a 10% decrease in interest rates and a 10% strengthening in foreign exchange rates against the u.s. dollar. the fair value of these financial instruments is estimated using discounted cash flow analysis and indicative market pricing as reported by leading financial news and data providers. 34 table of contents at the end of each year, the table below provides the carrying and fair values of these financial instruments along with the sensitivity of fair value to the hypothetical changes discussed above. this sensitivity analysis is most likely not indicative of actual results in the future. december 30, 2017 december 31, 2016 ( in millions ) carrying value* fair value* sensitivity of fair value to a 10% change carrying value* fair value* sensitivity of fair value to a 10% change manufacturing group foreign exchange rate risk debt $ (212) $ (232) $ (23) $ (187) $ (211) $ (21) foreign currency exchange contracts 11 11 26 (3) (3) 29 $ (201) $ (221) $ 3 $ (190) $ (214) $ 8 interest rate risk debt $ (3,007) $ (3,136) $ (33) $ (2,690) $ (2,809) $ (22) finance group interest rate risk finance receivables $ 643 $ 675 $ 14 $ 759 $ 788 $ 15 debt (824) (799) 2 (903) (831) 20 * the value represents an asset or (liability). 35 table of contentsrisk factors our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. the risks discussed below are those that we believe currently are the most significant to our business. we have customer concentration with the u.s. government; reduction in u.s. government defense spending may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. during 2018, we derived approximately 24% of our revenues from sales to a variety of u.s. government entities. our revenues from the u.s. government largely result from contracts awarded to us under various u.s. government defense-related programs. the funding of these programs is subject to congressional appropriation decisions and the u.s. government budget process which includes enacting relevant legislation, such as appropriations bills and accords on the debt ceiling. although multiple-year contracts may be planned in connection with major procurements, congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may continue for several years. consequently, programs often are only partially funded initially, and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. further uncertainty with respect to ongoing programs could also result in the event that the u.s. government finances its operations through temporary funding measures such as continuing resolutions rather than full-year appropriations. if we incur costs in advance or in excess of funds committed on a contract, we are at risk for non-reimbursement of those costs until additional funds are appropriated. the reduction, termination or delay in the timing of funding for u.s. government programs for which we currently provide or propose to provide products or services may result in a loss of anticipated future revenues that could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. significant changes in national and international policies or priorities for defense spending, as well as the impact of sequestration, could affect the funding, or the timing of funding, of our programs, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, because our u.s. government contracts generally require us to continue to perform even if the u.s. government is unable to make timely payments, we may need to finance our continued performance for the impacted contracts from our other resources on an interim basis. for example, if the u.s. government is shut down for an extended period of time or the debt ceiling is not raised, our customer may not pay us on a timely basis. an extended delay in the timely payment by the u.s. government could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. u.s. government contracts may be terminated at any time and may contain other unfavorable provisions. the u.s. government typically can terminate or modify any of its contracts with us either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. in the event of termination for the u.s. government convenience, contractors are generally protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contracts and profit on those costs but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. a termination arising out of our default for failure to perform could expose us to liability, including but not limited to, all costs incurred under the contract plus potential liability for re-procurement costs in excess of the total original contract amount, less the value of work performed and accepted by the customer under the contract. such an event could also have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future 9 table of contents contracts and orders. if any of our contracts are terminated by the u.s. government whether for convenience or default, our backlog and anticipated revenues would be reduced by the expected value of the remaining work under such contracts. we also enter into fee for service contracts with the u.s. government where we retain ownership of, and consequently the risk of loss on, aircraft and equipment supplied to perform under these contracts. termination of these contracts could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. on contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our products and services as a subcontractor. in addition, in the event that the u.s. government is unable to make timely payments, failure to continue contract performance places the contractor at risk of termination for default. any such event could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to procurement rules and regulations. we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of u.s. government contracts. these laws and regulations, among other things, require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiation, define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based u.s. government contracts, and safeguard and restrict the use and dissemination of classified information, covered defense information, and the exportation of certain products and technical data. new laws, regulations or procurement requirements or changes to current ones (including, for example, regulations related to cybersecurity) can significantly increase our costs and risks and reduce our profitability. our failure to comply with procurement regulations and requirements could allow the u.s. government to suspend or debar us from receiving new contracts for a period of time, reduce the value of existing contracts, issue modifications to a contract, withhold cash on contract payments, and control and potentially prohibit the export of our products, services and associated materials, any of which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. a number of our u.s. government contracts contain provisions that require us to make disclosure to the inspector general of the agency that is our customer if we have credible evidence that we have violated u.s. criminal laws involving fraud, conflict of interest, or bribery; the u.s. civil false claims act; or received a significant overpayment under a u.s. government contract. failure to properly and timely make disclosures under these provisions may result in a termination for default or cause, suspension and/or debarment, and potential fines. as a u.s. government contractor, our businesses and systems are subject to audit and review by the defense contract audit agency (dcaa) and the defense contract management agency (dcma). we operate in a highly regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the u.s. government and its agencies such as the dcaa and dcma. these agencies review our performance under contracts, our cost structure and our compliance with laws and regulations applicable to u.s. government contractors. the systems that are subject to review include, but are not limited to, our accounting, estimating, material management and accounting, earned value management, purchasing and government property systems. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions that may include the termination of our contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and, under certain circumstances, suspension or debarment from future contracts for a period of time. whether or not illegal activities are alleged, the u.s. government also has the ability to decrease or withhold certain payments when it deems systems subject to its review to be inadequate. these laws and regulations affect how we conduct business with our government customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. the use of multi-award contracts by the u.s. government may increase competition and pricing pressure. the u.s. government increasingly relies upon competitive contract award types, including indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity and multi-award contracts, which have the potential to create greater competition and increased pricing pressure, as well as to increase our cost by requiring that we submit multiple bids. in addition, multi-award contracts require that we make sustained efforts to obtain task orders and delivery orders under the contract. further, the competitive bidding process is costly and demands managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us or may be split among competitors. our profitability and cash flow may vary depending on the mix of our government contracts and our ability to control costs . under fixed-price contracts, generally we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur, and, consequently, any costs in excess of the fixed price are absorbed by us. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates used in developing the pricing for such contracts may adversely affect our results of operations. additionally, fixed-price contracts may require progress payments rather than performance-based payments which can delay our ability to recover a significant amount of costs incurred on a contract and thus affect the timing of our cash flows. fixed-price incentive-based fee arrangements provide that allowable costs incurred are reimbursable but are subject to a cost-share which could negatively impact our profitability. under time and materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. under cost-reimbursement contracts that are subject to a contract-ceiling amount, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based, however, if our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs. under each type of contract, if we are unable to control 10 table of contents costs incurred in performing under the contract, our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. cost overruns also may adversely affect our ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards. demand for our aircraft products is cyclical and could adversely affect our financial results. demand for business jets, turbo props and commercial helicopters has been cyclical and difficult to forecast. therefore, future demand for these products could be significantly and unexpectedly less than anticipated and/or less than previous period deliveries. similarly, t here is uncertainty as to when or whether our existing commercial backlog for aircraft products will convert to revenues as the conversion depends on production capacity, customer needs and credit availability. changes in economic conditions may cause customers to request that firm orders be rescheduled or cancelled. reduced demand for our aircraft products or delays or cancellations of orders could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. we may make acquisitions that increase the risks of our business. we may enter into acquisitions in an effort to expand our business and enhance shareholder value. acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties that could result in our not achieving expected benefits. such risks include difficulties in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner; challenges in achieving expected strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits; the risk that the acquired businesses markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the acquired businesses products and technologies do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; the risk that our due diligence reviews of the acquired business do not identify or adequately assess all of the material issues which impact valuation of the business or that may result in costs or liabilities in excess of what we anticipated; the risk that we pay a purchase price that exceeds what the future results of operations would have merited; the risk that the acquired business may have significant internal control deficiencies or exposure to regulatory sanctions; and the potential loss of key customers, suppliers and employees of the acquired businesses. if our finance segment is unable to maintain portfolio credit quality, our financial performance could be adversely affected . a key determinant of the financial performance of our finance segment is the quality of loans, leases and other assets in its portfolio. portfolio quality may be adversely affected by several factors, including finance receivable underwriting procedures, collateral value, geographic or industry concentrations, and the effect of general economic conditions. in addition, a substantial number of the new originations in our finance receivable portfolio are cross-border transactions for aircraft sold outside of the u.s. cross-border transactions present additional challenges and risks in realizing upon collateral in the event of borrower default, which may result in difficulty or delay in collecting on the related finance receivables. if our finance segment has difficulty successfully collecting its finance receivable portfolio, our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may need to obtain financing in the future; such financing may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all. we may periodically need to obtain financing in order to meet our debt obligations as they come due, to support our operations and/or to make acquisitions. our access to the debt capital markets and the cost of borrowings are affected by a number of factors including market conditions and the strength of our credit ratings. if we cannot obtain adequate sources of credit on favorable terms, or at all, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. failure to perform by our subcontractors or suppliers could adversely affect our performance. we rely on other companies to provide raw materials, major components and subsystems for our products. subcontractors also perform services that we provide to our customers in certain circumstances. we depend on these suppliers and subcontractors to meet our contractual obligations to our customers and conduct our operations. our ability to meet our obligations to our customers may be adversely affected if suppliers or subcontractors do not provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services in compliance with customer requirements and in a timely and cost-effective manner. likewise, the quality of our products may be adversely impacted if companies to whom we delegate manufacture of major components or subsystems for our products, or from whom we acquire such items, do not provide components or subsystems which meet required specifications and perform to our and our customers expectations. our suppliers may be less likely than us to be able to quickly recover from natural disasters and other events beyond their control and may be subject to additional risks such as financial problems that limit their ability to conduct their operations. the risk of these adverse effects may be greater in circumstances where we rely on only one or two subcontractors or suppliers for a particular raw material, product or service. in particular, in the aircraft industry, most vendor parts are certified by the regulatory agencies as part of the overall type certificate for the aircraft being produced by the manufacturer. if a vendor does not or cannot supply its parts, then the manufacturer production line may be stopped until the manufacturer can design, manufacture and certify a similar part itself or identify and certify another similar vendor part, resulting in significant delays in the completion of aircraft. such events may adversely affect our financial results, damage our reputation and relationships with our customers, and result in regulatory actions and/or litigation. 11 table of contents our business could be negatively impacted by information technology disruptions and security threats. our information technology (it) and related systems are critical to the efficient operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day to day processes. from time to time, we update and/or replace it systems used by our businesses. the implementation of new systems can present temporary disruptions of business activities as existing processes are transitioned to the new systems, resulting in productivity issues, including delays in production, shipments or other business operations. we also outsource certain support functions, including certain global it infrastructure services, to third-party service providers, and any disruption of such outsourced processes or functions could have a material adverse effect on our operations. in addition, as a u.s. defense contractor, we face certain security threats, including threats to our it infrastructure and unlawful attempts to gain access to our information via phishing / malware campaigns and other cyberattack methods, as well as threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, as do our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and joint venture partners. attempts to gain unauthorized access to our confidential, classified or otherwise proprietary information or that of our employees or customers, as well as other security breaches, are persistent, continue to evolve and require highly skilled it resources. we maintain information systems incident management standards applicable to all our businesses to ensure information security events and weaknesses associated with information systems are communicated and acted on in a timely manner. our enterprise risk management program includes cyber risk/network protection mitigation plans, and our disclosure controls and procedures address cybersecurity and include processes intended to ensure that security breaches are analyzed for potential disclosure. additionally, we conduct periodic training for our employees regarding the protection of sensitive information which includes training intended to prevent the success of cyberattacks. further, our insider trading compliance program addresses restrictions against trading while in possession of material, nonpublic information in connection with a cybersecurity incident. while we have experienced cybersecurity attacks, we have not suffered any material losses relating to such attacks, and we believe our threat detection and mitigation processes and procedures are robust. due to the evolving nature of security threats, the possibility of future material incidents cannot be completely mitigated and we may not be successful in detecting, reporting or responding to cyber incidents in a timely manner. future attacks or breaches of data security, whether of our systems or the systems of our service providers or other third parties who may have access to our data for business purposes, could disrupt our operations, cause the loss of business information or compromise confidential information, exposing us to liability or regulatory action. such an incident also could require significant management attention and resources, increase costs that may not be covered by insurance, and result in reputational damage, potentially adversely affecting our competitiveness and our results of operations. products and services that we provide to our customers may themselves be subject to cyberthreats which may not be detected or effectively mitigated, resulting in potential losses that could adversely affect us and our customers. in addition, our customers, including the u.s. government, are increasingly requiring cybersecurity protections and mandating cybersecurity standards in our products, and we may incur additional costs to comply with such demands. developing new products and technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties. to continue to grow our revenues and segment profit, we must successfully develop new products and technologies or modify our existing products and technologies for our current and future markets. our future performance depends, in part, on our ability to identify emerging technological trends and customer requirements and to develop and maintain competitive products and services. delays or cost overruns in the development and acceptance of new products, or certification of new aircraft and other products, could adversely affect our results of operations. these delays could be caused by unanticipated technological hurdles, production changes to meet customer demands, unanticipated difficulties in obtaining required regulatory certifications of new aircraft or other products, coordination with joint venture partners or failure on the part of our suppliers to deliver components as agreed. we also could be adversely affected if our research and development investments are less successful than expected or if we do not adequately protect the intellectual property developed through these efforts. likewise, new products and technologies could generate unanticipated safety or other concerns resulting in expanded product liability risks, potential product recalls and other regulatory issues that could have an adverse impact on us. furthermore, because of the lengthy research and development cycle involved in bringing certain of our products to market, we cannot predict the economic conditions that will exist when any new product is complete. a reduction in capital spending in the aerospace or defense industries could have a significant effect on the demand for new products and technologies under development, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, our investments in equipment or technology that we believe will enable us to obtain future service contracts for our u.s. government or other customers may not result in contracts or revenues sufficient to offset such investment. the market for our product offerings may not develop or continue to expand as we currently anticipate. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing technologies which gain superior market acceptance compared to our products. a significant failure in our new product development efforts or the failure of our products or services to achieve market acceptance relative to our competitors products or services could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 12 table of contents we are subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries. during 2018, we derived approximately 38% of our revenues from international business, including u.s. exports. conducting business internationally exposes us to additional risks than if we conducted our business solely within the u.s. we maintain manufacturing facilities, service centers, supply centers and other facilities worldwide, including in various emerging market countries. risks related to international operations include import, export and other trade restrictions; changing u.s. and foreign procurement policies and practices; changes in international trade policies, including higher tariffs on imported goods and materials and renegotiation of free trade agreements; impacts related to the pending voluntary exit of the united kingdom from the european union ( brexit ); restrictions on technology transfer; difficulties in protecting intellectual property; increasing complexity of employment and environmental, health and safety regulations; foreign investment laws; exchange controls; repatriation of earnings or cash settlement challenges, competition from foreign and multinational firms with home country advantages; economic and government instability, acts of terrorism and related safety concerns. the impact of any one or more of these or other factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. additionally, some international government customers require contractors to agree to specific in-country purchases, technology transfers, manufacturing agreements or financial support arrangements, known as offsets, as a condition for a contract award. these contracts generally extend over several years and may include penalties if we fail to perform in accordance with the offset requirements which are often subjective. we also are exposed to risks associated with using foreign representatives and consultants for international sales and operations and teaming with international subcontractors and suppliers in connection with international programs. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act. although we maintain policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, a violation of such laws by any of our international representatives, consultants, joint ventures, business partners, subcontractors or suppliers, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. we are subject to increasing compliance risks that could adversely affect our operating results. as a global business, we are subject to laws and regulations in the u.s. and other countries in which we operate. international sales and global operations require importing and exporting goods and technology, some of which have military applications subjecting them to more stringent import-export controls across international borders on a regular basis. for example, we sometimes initially must obtain licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before we are permitted to sell certain of our aerospace and defense products outside the u.s. both u.s. and foreign laws and regulations applicable to us have been increasing in scope and complexity. for example, both u.s. and foreign governments and government agencies regulate the aviation industry, and they may impose new regulations with additional aircraft security or other requirements or restrictions, including, for example, restrictions and/or fees related to carbon emissions levels. changes in environmental and climate change laws and regulations, including laws relating to greenhouse gas emissions, could lead to the necessity for new or additional investment in product designs or manufacturing processes and could increase environmental compliance expenditures, including costs to defend regulatory reviews. new or changing laws and regulations or related interpretation and policies could increase our costs of doing business, affect how we conduct our operations, adversely impact demand for our products, and/or limit our ability to sell our products and services. compliance with laws and regulations of increasing scope and complexity is even more challenging in our current business environment in which reducing our operating costs is often necessary to remain competitive. in addition, a violation of u.s. and/or foreign laws by one of our employees or business partners could subject us or our employees to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions, such as denial of import or export privileges and/or debarment as a government contractor which could damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our business. we are subject to legal proceedings and other claims. we are subject to legal proceedings and other claims arising out of the conduct of our business, including proceedings and claims relating to commercial and financial transactions; government contracts; alleged lack of compliance with applicable laws and regulations; production partners; product liability; patent and trademark infringement; employment disputes; and environmental, safety and health matters. due to the nature of our manufacturing business, we may be subject to liability claims arising from accidents involving our products, including claims for serious personal injuries or death caused by weather or by pilot, driver or user error. in the case of litigation matters for which reserves have not been established because the loss is not deemed probable, it is reasonably possible that such claims could be decided against us and could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures in amounts that are not presently estimable. in addition, we cannot be certain that our reserves are adequate and that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover one or more substantial claims. furthermore, we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage at acceptable levels and costs in the future. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and we could incur judgments, receive adverse arbitration awards or enter into settlements for current or future claims that could adversely affect our financial position or our results of operations in any particular period. 13 table of contents intellectual property infringement claims of others and the inability to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our customers. intellectual property infringement claims may be asserted by third parties against us or our customers. any related indemnification payments or legal costs we may be obliged to pay on behalf of our businesses, our customers or other third parties could be costly. in addition, we own the rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names, trade names and trade secrets that are important to our business. the inability to enforce these intellectual property rights may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. additionally, our intellectual property could be at risk due to cybersecurity threats. certain of our products are subject to laws regulating consumer products and could be subject to repurchase or recall as a result of safety issues. as a distributor of consumer products in the u.s., certain of our products are subject to the consumer product safety act, which empowers the u.s. consumer product safety commission (cpsc) to exclude from the market products that are found to be unsafe or hazardous. under certain circumstances, the cpsc could require us to repair, replace or refund the purchase price of one or more of our products, or potentially even discontinue entire product lines, or we may voluntarily do so, but within strictures recommended by the cpsc. the cpsc also can impose fines or penalties on a manufacturer for non-compliance with its requirements. furthermore, failure to timely notify the cpsc of a potential safety hazard can result in significant fines being assessed against us. any repurchases or recalls of our products or an imposition of fines or penalties could be costly to us and could damage the reputation or the value of our brands. additionally, laws regulating certain consumer products exist in some states, as well as in other countries in which we sell our products, and more restrictive laws and regulations may be adopted in the future. the increasing costs of certain employee and retiree benefits could adversely affect our results. our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted by increasing costs and funding requirements related to our employee benefit plans. the obligation for our defined benefit pension plans is driven by, among other things, our assumptions of the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the discount rate used for future payment obligations. additionally, as part of our annual evaluation of these plans, significant changes in our assumptions, due to changes in economic, legislative and/or demographic experience or circumstances, or changes in our actual investment returns could negatively impact the funded status of our plans requiring us to substantially increase our pension liability with a resulting decrease in shareholders equity. also, changes in pension legislation and regulations could increase the cost associated with our defined benefit pension plans. our business could be adversely affected by strikes or work stoppages and other labor issues. approximately 7,200, or 28%, of our u.s. employees are unionized, and many of our non-u.s. employees are represented by organized councils. as a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, resulting in strain on our relationships with our customers and a loss of revenues. the presence of unions also may limit our flexibility in responding to competitive pressures in the marketplace. in addition, the workforces of many of our suppliers and customers are represented by labor unions. work stoppages or strikes at the plants of our key suppliers could disrupt our manufacturing processes; similar actions at the plants of our customers could result in delayed or canceled orders for our products. any of these events could adversely affect our results of operations. currency, raw material price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates. fluctuations in foreign currency rates may contribute to variations in revenue and costs in impacted jurisdictions which could adversely affect our profitability. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. in some cases, we purchase derivatives or enter into contracts to insulate our results of operations from these fluctuations. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates can have substantial adverse effects on our results of operations. we may be unable to effectively mitigate pricing pressures. in some markets, particularly where we deliver component products and services to oems, we face ongoing customer demands for price reductions, which sometimes are contractually obligated. however, if we are unable to effectively mitigate future pricing pressures through technological advances or by lowering our cost base through improved operating and supply chain efficiencies, our results of operations could be adversely affected. unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and various non-u.s. jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the location of income among these different jurisdictions. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings indefinitely reinvested offshore, changes to unrecognized tax benefits or changes in tax laws, which could affect our profitability. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate 14 table of contents future taxable income, as well as changes to applicable statutory tax rates. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a tax authority could affect our profitability. the tax cuts and jobs act was enacted on december 22, 2017 and significantly changed u.s. income tax law. any additional tax legislation in the united states or elsewhere, could adversely affect our effective tax rate, have a material impact on the value of our deferred tax assets or increase our future u.s. tax expense. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange risk our financial results are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates in the various countries in which our products are manufactured and/or sold. for our manufacturing operations, we manage our foreign currency transaction exposures by entering into foreign currency exchange contracts. these contracts generally are used to fix the local currency cost of purchased goods or services or selling prices denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. the notional amount of outstanding foreign currency exchange contracts was $379 million and $426 million at december 29, 2018 and december 30, 2017, respectively. we also manage exposures to foreign currency assets and earnings primarily by funding certain foreign currency-denominated assets with liabilities in the same currency so that certain exposures are naturally offset. we primarily use borrowings denominated in british pound sterling for these purposes. the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes on our consolidated statements of operations are as follows: (in millions) 2018 2017 2016 increase (decrease) in revenues $ 57 $ 27 $ (36) increase (decrease) in segment profit 1 (1) (12) interest rate risk our financial results are affected by changes in interest rates. as part of managing this risk, we seek to achieve a prudent balance between floating- and fixed-rate exposures. we continually monitor our mix of these exposures and adjust the mix, as necessary. for our finance group, we generally limit our risk to changes in interest rates with a strategy of matching floating-rate assets with floating-rate liabilities. quantitative risk measures in the normal course of business, we enter into financial instruments for purposes other than trading. the financial instruments that are subject to market risk include finance receivables (excluding leases), debt (excluding capital lease obligations) and foreign currency exchange contracts. to quantify the market risk inherent in these financial instruments, we utilize a sensitivity analysis that includes a hypothetical change in fair value assuming a 10% decrease in interest rates and a 10% strengthening in foreign exchange rates against the u.s. dollar. the fair value of these financial instruments is estimated using discounted cash flow analysis and indicative market pricing as reported by leading financial news and data providers. at the end of each year, the table below provides the carrying and fair values of these financial instruments along with the sensitivity of fair value to the hypothetical changes discussed above. this sensitivity analysis is most likely not indicative of actual results in the future. december 29, 2018 december 30, 2017 ( in millions ) carrying value* fair value* sensitivity of fair value to a 10% change carrying value* fair value* sensitivity of fair value to a 10% change manufacturing group foreign currency exchange risk debt $ (197) $ (208) $ (21) $ (212) $ (232) $ (23) foreign currency exchange contracts (8) (8) 50 11 11 26 $ (205) $ (216) $ 29 $ (201) $ (221) $ 3 interest rate risk debt $ (2,996) $ (2,971) $ (30) $ (3,007) $ (3,136) $ (33) finance group interest rate risk finance receivables $ 582 $ 584 $ 14 $ 643 $ 675 $ 14 debt (718) (640) 1 (824) (799) 2 * the value represents an asset or (liability). 35 table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. the risks discussed below are those that we believe currently are the most significant to our business. we have customer concentration with the u.s. government; reduction in u.s. government defense spending can adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. during 2019, we derived approximately 24% of our revenues from sales to a variety of u.s. government entities. our revenues from the u.s. government largely result from contracts awarded to us under various u.s. government defense-related programs. the funding of these programs is subject to congressional appropriation decisions and the u.s. government budget process which includes enacting relevant legislation, such as appropriations bills and accords on the debt ceiling. although multiple-year contracts may be planned in connection with major procurements, congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may continue for several years. consequently, programs often are only partially funded initially, and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. further uncertainty with respect to ongoing programs could also result in the event that the u.s. government finances its operations through temporary funding measures such as continuing resolutions rather than full-year appropriations. if we incur costs in advance or in excess of funds committed on a contract, we are at risk for non-reimbursement of those costs until additional funds are appropriated. the reduction, termination or delay in the timing of funding for u.s. government programs for which we currently provide or propose to provide products or services from time to time has resulted and, in the future, may result in a loss of anticipated revenues. a loss of such revenues could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. significant changes in national and international policies or priorities for defense spending, as well as the potential impact of sequestration, could affect the funding, or the timing of funding, of our programs, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, because our u.s. government contracts generally require us to continue to perform even if the u.s. government is unable to make timely payments, we may need to finance our continued performance for the impacted contracts from our other resources on an interim basis. an extended delay in the timely payment by the u.s. government could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. u.s. government contracts can be terminated at any time and may contain other unfavorable provisions. the u.s. government typically can terminate or modify any of its contracts with us either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. in the event of termination for the u.s. government's convenience, contractors are generally protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contracts and profit on those costs but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. a termination arising out of our default for failure to perform could expose us to liability, including but not limited to, all costs incurred under the contract plus potential liability for re-procurement costs in excess of the total original contract amount, less the value of work performed and accepted by the customer under the contract. such an event could also have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. if any of our contracts are terminated by the u.s. government whether for convenience or default, our backlog would be reduced by the expected value of the remaining work under such contracts. we also enter into fee for service contracts with the u.s. government where we retain ownership of, and consequently the risk of loss on, aircraft and equipment supplied to perform under these contracts. termination of these contracts could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. on contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our products and services as a subcontractor. in addition, in the event that the u.s. government is unable to make timely payments, failure to continue contract performance places the contractor at risk of termination for default. any such event could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. 9 table of contents as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to procurement rules and regulations ; our failure to comply with these rules and regulations could adversely affect our business. we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of u.s. government contracts. these laws and regulations, among other things, require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiation, define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based u.s. government contracts, and safeguard and restrict the use and dissemination of classified information, covered defense information, and the exportation of certain products and technical data. new laws, regulations or procurement requirements or changes to current ones (including, for example, regulations related to cybersecurity) can significantly increase our costs, reducing our profitability. our failure to comply with procurement regulations and requirements could allow the u.s. government to suspend or debar us from receiving new contracts for a period of time, reduce the value of existing contracts, issue modifications to a contract, withhold cash on contract payments, and control and potentially prohibit the export of our products, services and associated materials, any of which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. a number of our u.s. government contracts contain provisions that require us to make disclosure to the inspector general of the agency that is our customer if we have credible evidence that we have violated u.s. criminal laws involving fraud, conflict of interest, or bribery; the u.s. civil false claims act; or received a significant overpayment under a u.s. government contract. failure to properly and timely make disclosures under these provisions may result in a termination for default or cause, suspension and/or debarment, and potential fines. as a u.s. government contractor, our businesses and systems are subject to audit and review by the defense contract audit agency (dcaa) and the defense contract management agency (dcma). we operate in a highly regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the u.s. government and its agencies such as the dcaa and dcma. these agencies review our performance under contracts, our cost structure and our compliance with laws and regulations applicable to u.s. government contractors. the systems that are subject to review include, but are not limited to, our accounting, estimating, material management and accounting, earned value management, purchasing and government property systems. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions that may include the termination of our contracts, forfeiture or reduction of profits, suspension or reduction of payments, fines, and, under certain circumstances, suspension or debarment from future contracts for a period of time. whether or not illegal activities are alleged, the u.s. government also has the ability to decrease or withhold certain payments when it deems systems subject to its review to be inadequate. these laws and regulations affect how we conduct business with our government customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. the use of multi-award contracts by the u.s. government increases competition, pricing pressure and cost. the u.s. government increasingly relies upon competitive contract award types, including indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity and multi-award contracts, which have the potential to create greater competition and increased pricing pressure, as well as to increase our cost by requiring that we submit multiple bids. in addition, multi-award contracts increase our cost as they require that we make sustained efforts to obtain task orders and delivery orders under the contract. further, the competitive bidding process is costly and demands managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us or may be split among competitors. our profitability and cash flow varies depending on the mix of our government contracts and our ability to control costs . under fixed-price contracts, generally we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur, and, consequently, any costs in excess of the fixed price are absorbed by us. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates used in developing the pricing for such contracts can adversely affect our results of operations. additionally, fixed-price contracts generally require progress payments rather than performance-based payments which can delay our ability to recover a significant amount of costs incurred on a contract and thus affect the timing of our cash flows. under fixed-price incentive contracts, we share with the u.s. government cost underrun savings, which are derived from total cost being less than target costs; we also share in cost overruns, which occur when total costs exceed target costs up to a negotiated cost ceiling, but are solely responsible for costs above the ceiling. under time and materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. under cost-reimbursement contracts that are subject to a contract-ceiling amount, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based, however, if our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs. due to the nature of our work under government contracts, we sometimes experience unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns. under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs or if our initial cost estimates are incorrect, our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. cost overruns also may adversely affect our ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards. 10 table of contents demand for our aircraft products is cyclical and lower demand adversely affects our financial results. demand for business jets, turbo props and commercial helicopters has been cyclical and difficult to forecast. therefore, future demand for these products could be significantly and unexpectedly less than anticipated and/or less than previous period deliveries. similarly, there is uncertainty as to when or whether our existing commercial backlog for aircraft products will convert to revenues as the conversion depends on production capacity, customer needs and credit availability. changes in economic conditions has in the past caused, and in the future may cause, customers to request that firm orders be rescheduled, deferred or cancelled. reduced demand for our aircraft products or delays or cancellations of orders previously has had and, in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. we have made and may continue to make acquisitions that increase the risks of our business. we enter into acquisitions in an effort to expand our business and enhance shareholder value. acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties that, in some cases, have resulted, and, in the future, could result in our not achieving expected benefits. such risks include difficulties in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner; challenges in achieving expected strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits; the risk that the acquired businesses' markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the acquired businesses' products and technologies do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; the risk that our due diligence reviews of the acquired business do not identify or adequately assess all of the material issues which impact valuation of the business or result in costs or liabilities in excess of what we anticipated; the risk that we pay a purchase price that exceeds what the future results of operations would have merited; the risk that the acquired business may have significant internal control deficiencies or exposure to regulatory sanctions; and the potential loss of key customers, suppliers and employees of the acquired businesses. failure to perform by our subcontractors or suppliers could adversely affect our performance. we rely on other companies to provide raw materials, major components and subsystems for our products. subcontractors also perform services that we provide to our customers in certain circumstances. we depend on these suppliers and subcontractors to meet our contractual obligations to our customers and conduct our operations. our ability to meet our obligations to our customers could be adversely affected if suppliers or subcontractors do not provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services in compliance with customer requirements and in a timely and cost-effective manner. likewise, the quality of our products could be adversely impacted if companies to whom we delegate manufacture of major components or subsystems for our products, or from whom we acquire such items, do not provide components or subsystems which meet required specifications and perform to our and our customers' expectations. our suppliers may be less likely than us to be able to quickly recover from natural disasters and other events beyond their control and may be subject to additional risks such as financial problems that limit their ability to conduct their operations. the risk of these adverse effects would likely be greater in circumstances where we rely on only one or two subcontractors or suppliers for a particular raw material, product or service. in particular, in the aircraft industry, most vendor parts are certified by the regulatory agencies as part of the overall type certificate for the aircraft being produced by the manufacturer. if a vendor does not or cannot supply its parts, then the manufacturer's production line may be stopped until the manufacturer can design, manufacture and certify a similar part itself or identify and certify another similar vendor's part, resulting in significant delays in the completion of aircraft. such events may adversely affect our financial results, damage our reputation and relationships with our customers, and result in regulatory actions and/or litigation. our business could be negatively impacted by information technology disruptions and security threats. our information technology (it) and related systems are critical to the efficient operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day to day processes. from time to time, we update and/or replace it systems used by our businesses. the implementation of new systems can present temporary disruptions of business activities as existing processes are transitioned to the new systems, resulting in productivity issues, including delays in production, shipments or other business operations. we also outsource certain support functions, including certain global it infrastructure services, to third-party service providers, and any disruption of such outsourced processes or functions could have a material adverse effect on our operations. in addition, as a u.s. defense contractor, we face certain security threats, including threats to our it infrastructure and unlawful attempts to gain access to our information via phishing / malware campaigns and other cyberattack methods, as well as threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, as do our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and joint venture partners. attempts to gain unauthorized access to our confidential, classified or otherwise proprietary information or that of our employees or customers, as well as other security breaches, are persistent, continue to evolve and require highly skilled it resources. we maintain information systems incident management standards applicable to all our businesses intended to ensure information security events and weaknesses associated with information systems are communicated and acted on in a timely manner. our enterprise risk management program includes cyber risk/network protection mitigation plans, and our disclosure controls and procedures address cybersecurity and include processes intended to ensure that security breaches are analyzed for potential disclosure. additionally, we conduct periodic training for our employees regarding the protection of sensitive information which includes training intended to prevent the success of cyberattacks. further, our insider trading compliance program addresses restrictions against trading while in possession of material, nonpublic information in connection with a cybersecurity incident. 11 table of contents while we have experienced cybersecurity attacks, we have not suffered any material losses relating to such attacks, and we believe our threat detection and mitigation processes and procedures are robust. due to the evolving nature of security threats, the possibility of future material incidents cannot be completely mitigated, and we may not always be successful in detecting, reporting or responding to cyber incidents. future attacks or breaches of data security, whether of our systems or the systems of our service providers or other third parties who may have access to our data for business purposes, could disrupt our operations, cause the loss of business information or compromise confidential information, exposing us to liability or regulatory action. such an incident also could require significant management attention and resources, increase costs that may not be covered by insurance, and result in reputational damage, potentially adversely affecting our competitiveness and our results of operations. products and services that we provide to our customers may themselves be subject to cyberthreats which may not be detected or effectively mitigated, resulting in potential losses that could adversely affect us and our customers. in addition, our customers, including the u.s. government, are increasingly requiring cybersecurity protections and mandating cybersecurity standards in our products, and we may incur additional costs to comply with such demands. developing new products and technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties. to continue to grow our revenues and segment profit, we must successfully develop new products and technologies or modify our existing products and technologies for our current and future markets. our future performance depends, in part, on our ability to identify emerging technological trends and customer requirements and to develop and maintain competitive products and services. delays or cost overruns in the development and acceptance of new products or certification of new aircraft and other products occur from time to time and could adversely affect our results of operations. these delays could be caused by unanticipated technological hurdles, production changes to meet customer demands, unanticipated difficulties in obtaining required regulatory certifications of new aircraft or other products, coordination with joint venture partners or failure on the part of our suppliers to deliver components as agreed. we also could be adversely affected if our research and development efforts are less successful than expected or if we do not adequately protect the intellectual property developed through these efforts. likewise, new products and technologies could generate unanticipated safety or other concerns resulting in expanded product liability risks, potential product recalls and other regulatory issues that could have an adverse impact on us. furthermore, because of the lengthy research and development cycle involved in bringing certain of our products to market, we cannot predict the economic conditions that will exist when any new product is complete. a reduction in capital spending in the aerospace or defense industries could have a significant effect on the demand for new products and technologies under development, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, our investments in equipment or technology that we believe will enable us to obtain future service contracts for our u.s. government or other customers may not result in contracts or revenues sufficient to offset such investment. the market for our product offerings does not always develop or continue to expand as we anticipate. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing technologies which gain superior market acceptance compared to our products. a significant failure in our new product development efforts or the failure of our products or services to achieve market acceptance relative to our competitors' products or services could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries that could adversely impact our business. during 2019, we derived approximately 34% of our revenues from international business, including u.s. exports. conducting business internationally exposes us to additional risks than if we conducted our business solely within the u.s. we maintain manufacturing facilities, service centers, supply centers and other facilities worldwide, including in various emerging market countries. risks related to international operations include import, export, economic sanctions and other trade restrictions; changing u.s. and foreign procurement policies and practices; changes in international trade policies, including higher tariffs on imported goods and materials and renegotiation of free trade agreements; potential retaliatory tariffs imposed by foreign countries against u.s. goods; impacts related to the voluntary exit of the united kingdom from the european union ( brexit ); restrictions on technology transfer; difficulties in protecting intellectual property; increasing complexity of employment and environmental, health and safety regulations; foreign investment laws; exchange controls; repatriation of earnings or cash settlement challenges, competition from foreign and multinational firms with home country advantages; economic and government instability, acts of terrorism and related safety concerns. the impact of any one or more of these or other factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. 12 table of contents additionally, some international government customers require contractors to agree to specific in-country purchases, technology transfers, manufacturing agreements or financial support arrangements, known as offsets, as a condition for a contract award. these contracts generally extend over several years and may include penalties if we fail to perform in accordance with the offset requirements which are often subjective. we also are exposed to risks associated with using foreign representatives and consultants for international sales and operations and teaming with international subcontractors and suppliers in connection with international programs. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act. although we maintain policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, a violation of such laws by any of our international representatives, consultants, joint ventures, business partners, subcontractors or suppliers, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. we are subject to increasing compliance risks that could adversely affect our operating results. as a global business, we are subject to laws and regulations in the u.s. and other countries in which we operate. international sales and global operations require importing and exporting goods, software and technology, some of which have military applications subjecting them to more stringent import-export controls across international borders on a regular basis. for example, we sometimes initially must obtain licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before we are permitted to sell certain of our aerospace and defense products outside the u.s., and we are not always successful in obtaining these licenses or authorizations in a timely manner. both u.s. and foreign laws and regulations applicable to us have been increasing in scope and complexity. for example, both u.s. and foreign governments and government agencies regulate the aviation industry, and they have previously and may in the future impose new regulations for additional aircraft security or other requirements or restrictions, including, for example, restrictions and/or fees related to carbon emissions levels. changes in environmental and climate change laws and regulations, including laws relating to greenhouse gas emissions, could lead to the necessity for new or additional investment in product designs or manufacturing processes and could increase environmental compliance expenditures, including costs to defend regulatory reviews. new or changing laws and regulations or related interpretation and policies could increase our costs of doing business, affect how we conduct our operations, adversely impact demand for our products, and/or limit our ability to sell our products and services. compliance with laws and regulations of increasing scope and complexity is even more challenging in our current business environment in which reducing our operating costs is often necessary to remain competitive. in addition, a violation of u.s. and/or foreign laws by one of our employees or business partners could subject us or our employees to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions, such as denial of import or export privileges and/or debarment as a government contractor which could damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our business. if our finance segment is unable to maintain portfolio credit quality, our financial performance could be adversely affected. a key determinant of the financial performance of our finance segment is the quality of loans, leases and other assets in its portfolio. portfolio quality can be adversely affected by several factors, including finance receivable underwriting procedures, collateral value, geographic or industry concentrations, and the effect of general economic conditions. in addition, a substantial number of the new originations in our finance receivable portfolio are cross-border transactions for aircraft sold outside of the u.s. cross-border transactions present additional challenges and risks in realizing upon collateral in the event of borrower default, which can result in difficulty or delay in collecting on the related finance receivables. if our finance segment has difficulty successfully collecting its finance receivable portfolio, our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we periodically need to obtain financing and such financing may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all. we periodically need to obtain financing in order to meet our debt obligations as they come due, to support our operations and/or to make acquisitions. our access to the debt capital markets and the cost of borrowings are affected by a number of factors including market conditions and the strength of our credit ratings. if we cannot obtain adequate sources of credit on favorable terms, or at all, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. natural disasters or other events outside of our control may disrupt our operations, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and may not be fully covered by insurance. natural disasters, including hurricanes, fires, tornados, floods and other forms of severe weather, the intensity and frequency of which are being exacerbated by climate change, other impacts of climate change, such as rising sea waters, as well as other events outside of our control including public health crises or pandemics, power outages, industrial explosions or other accidents, have in the past and could in the future disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business. any of these events could result in physical damage to and/or complete or partial closure of one or more of our facilities, temporary or long-term disruption of our operations or the operations of our suppliers by causing business interruptions or by impacting the availability and cost of materials needed for manufacturing or otherwise impacting our ability to deliver products and services to our customers. existing insurance arrangements may not provide full protection for the costs that may arise from such events. the occurrence of any of these events could materially increase our costs and expenses and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 table of contents global climate change could negatively affect our business. increased public awareness and concern regarding global climate change may result in more international, regional and/or federal requirements to reduce or mitigate global warming and these regulations could mandate stricter limits on greenhouse gas emissions. if environmental or climate change laws or regulations are either changed or adopted and impose significant operational restrictions and compliance requirements upon our business or our products, they could negatively impact our business, capital expenditures, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position. we are subject to legal proceedings and other claims. we are subject to legal proceedings and other claims arising out of the conduct of our business, including proceedings and claims relating to commercial and financial transactions; government contracts; alleged lack of compliance with applicable laws and regulations; production partners; product liability; patent and trademark infringement; employment disputes; and environmental, safety and health matters. due to the nature of our manufacturing business, we are regularly subject to liability claims arising from accidents involving our products, including claims for serious personal injuries or death caused by weather or by pilot, driver or user error. in the case of litigation matters for which reserves have not been established because the loss is not deemed probable, it is reasonably possible that such claims could be decided against us and could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures in amounts that are not presently estimable. in addition, we cannot be certain that our reserves are adequate and that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover one or more substantial claims. furthermore, we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage at acceptable levels and costs in the future. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and we could incur judgments, receive adverse arbitration awards or enter into settlements for current or future claims that could adversely affect our results of operations in any particular period. intellectual property infringement claims of others and the inability to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our customers. intellectual property infringement claims are, from time to time, asserted by third parties against us or our customers. any related indemnification payments or legal costs we are obliged to pay on behalf of our businesses, our customers or other third parties can be costly. in addition, we own the rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names, trade names and trade secrets that are important to our business. the inability to enforce these intellectual property rights could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. additionally, our intellectual property could be at risk due to cybersecurity threats. certain of our products are subject to laws regulating consumer products and could be subject to repurchase or recall as a result of safety issues. as a distributor of consumer products in the u.s., certain of our products are subject to the consumer product safety act, which empowers the u.s. consumer product safety commission (cpsc) to exclude from the market products that are found to be unsafe or hazardous. under certain circumstances, the cpsc could require us to repair, replace or refund the purchase price of one or more of our products, or potentially even discontinue entire product lines. we also may voluntarily take such action and, from time to time, have done so, but within strictures recommended by the cpsc. the cpsc also can impose fines or penalties on a manufacturer for non-compliance with its requirements. furthermore, failure to timely notify the cpsc of a potential safety hazard can result in significant fines being assessed against us. any repurchases or recalls of our products or an imposition of fines or penalties could be costly to us and could damage the reputation or the value of our brands. additionally, laws regulating certain consumer products exist in some states, as well as in other countries in which we sell our products, and more restrictive laws and regulations could be adopted in the future. our success is highly dependent on our ability to maintain a qualified workforce. our success is highly dependent upon our ability to maintain a workforce with the skills necessary for our businesses to succeed. we need highly skilled personnel in multiple areas including, among others, engineering, manufacturing, information technology, cybersecurity, flight operations, business development and strategy and management. from time to time we face challenges that may impact employee retention such as workforce reductions and facility consolidations and closures. in addition, some of our most experienced employees are retirement-eligible. to the extent that we lose experienced personnel through retirement or otherwise, it is critical for us to develop other employees, hire new qualified employees and successfully manage the transfer of critical knowledge. competition for skilled employees is intense, and we may incur higher labor, recruiting and/or training costs in order to attract and retain employees with the requisite skills. we may not be successful in hiring or retaining such employees which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. 14 table of contents the increasing costs of certain employee and retiree benefits could adversely affect our results. our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted by increasing costs and funding requirements related to our employee benefit plans. the obligation for our defined benefit pension plans is driven by, among other things, our assumptions of the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the discount rate used for future payment obligations. additionally, as part of our annual evaluation of these plans, significant changes in our assumptions, due to changes in economic, legislative and/or demographic experience or circumstances, or changes in our actual investment returns could negatively impact the funded status of our plans requiring us to substantially increase our pension liability with a resulting decrease in shareholders' equity. also, changes in pension legislation and regulations could increase the cost associated with our defined benefit pension plans. our business could be adversely affected by strikes or work stoppages and other labor issues. approximately 7,400, or 29%, of our u.s. employees are unionized, and many of our non-u.s. employees are represented by organized councils. as a result, from time to time we experience work stoppages, which can negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, resulting in strain on our relationships with our customers, loss or delay of revenue and/or increased cost. the presence of unions also may limit our flexibility in responding to competitive pressures in the marketplace. in addition, the workforces of many of our suppliers and customers are represented by labor unions. work stoppages or strikes at the plants of our key suppliers could disrupt our manufacturing processes; similar actions at the plants of our customers could result in delayed or canceled orders for our products. any of these events could adversely affect our results of operations. currency, raw material price and interest rate fluctuations can adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates. fluctuations in foreign currency rates contribute to variations in revenues and costs in impacted jurisdictions which can adversely affect our profitability. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates can have substantial adverse effects on our results of operations. we may be unable to effectively mitigate pricing pressures. in some markets, particularly where we deliver component products and services to oems, we face ongoing customer demands for price reductions, which sometimes are contractually obligated. however, if we are unable to effectively mitigate future pricing pressures through technological advances or by lowering our cost base through improved operating and supply chain efficiencies, our results of operations could be adversely affected. unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and various non-u.s. jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the location of income among these different jurisdictions. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings indefinitely reinvested offshore, changes to unrecognized tax benefits or changes in tax laws, which could affect our profitability. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income, as well as changes to applicable statutory tax rates. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a tax authority could affect our profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 35 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange risk our financial results are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates in the various countries in which our products are manufactured and/or sold. for our manufacturing operations, we manage our foreign currency transaction exposures by entering into foreign currency exchange contracts. these contracts generally are used to fix the local currency cost of purchased goods or services or selling prices denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. the notional amount of outstanding foreign currency exchange contracts was $342 million and $379 million at january 4, 2020 and december 29, 2018, respectively. we also manage exposures to foreign currency assets and earnings primarily by funding certain foreign currency-denominated assets with liabilities in the same currency so that certain exposures are naturally offset. we primarily use borrowings denominated in british pound sterling for these purposes. the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes on our consolidated statements of operations are as follows: (in millions) 2019 2018 2017 increase (decrease) in revenues $ (66) $ 57 $ 27 increase (decrease) in segment profit (10) 1 (1) interest rate risk our financial results are affected by changes in interest rates. as part of managing this risk, we seek to achieve a prudent balance between floating- and fixed-rate exposures. we continually monitor our mix of these exposures and adjust the mix, as necessary. for our finance group, we generally limit our risk to changes in interest rates with a strategy of matching floating-rate assets with floating-rate liabilities. quantitative risk measures in the normal course of business, we enter into financial instruments for purposes other than trading. the financial instruments that are subject to market risk include finance receivables (excluding leases), debt (excluding finance lease obligations) and foreign currency exchange contracts. to quantify the market risk inherent in these financial instruments, we utilize a sensitivity analysis that includes a hypothetical change in fair value assuming a 10% decrease in interest rates and a 10% strengthening in foreign exchange rates against the u.s. dollar. the fair value of these financial instruments is estimated using discounted cash flow analysis and indicative market pricing as reported by leading financial news and data providers. at the end of each year, the table below provides the carrying and fair values of these financial instruments along with the sensitivity of fair value to the hypothetical changes discussed above. this sensitivity analysis is most likely not indicative of actual results in the future. january 4, 2020 december 29, 2018 sensitivity of sensitivity of fair value fair value carrying fair to a 10% carrying fair to a 10% ( in millions ) value* value* change value* value* change manufacturing group foreign currency exchange risk debt $ (210) $ (212) $ (21) $ (197) $ (208) $ (21) foreign currency exchange contracts (1) (1) 20 (8) (8) 50 $ (211) $ (213) $ (1) $ (205) $ (216) $ 29 interest rate risk debt $ (3,097) $ (3,249) $ (21) $ (2,996) $ (2,971) $ (30) finance group interest rate risk finance receivables $ 493 $ 527 $ 9 $ 582 $ 584 $ 14 debt (686) (634) 1 (718) (640) 1 * the value represents an asset or (liability). 35 table of contentsrisk factors our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. the risks discussed below are those that we believe currently are the most significant to our business. we have customer concentration with the u.s. government; reduction in u.s. government defense spending may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. during 2011, we derived approximately 31% of our revenues from sales to a variety of u.s. government entities. our revenues from the u.s. government largely result from contracts awarded to us under various u.s. government defense-related programs. the funding of these programs is subject to congressional appropriation decisions. although multiple-year contracts may be planned in connection with major procurements, congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may continue for several years. consequently, programs often are only partially funded initially, and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. if we incur costs in excess of funds committed on a contract, we are more at risk for non-reimbursement of those costs until additional funds are appropriated. mounting pressure for u.s. government deficit reduction and reduced national spending have created an environment where national security spending is being closely examined. in addition, the withdrawal of u.s. troops from iraq and uncertainty regarding the future level of u.s. military involvement in afghanistan adds to the pressure to reduce defense spending. in august 2011, congress passed the budget control act of 2011 which committed the u.s. government to significantly reduce the federal deficit over ten years. under the budget act, very substantial automatic spending cuts, including approximately $600 billion in cuts to the u.s, defense budget over a nine year period, are scheduled to be triggered beginning in 2013. as a result, long-term funding for various programs in which we participate, as well as future purchasing decisions by our u.s. government customers, could be reduced, delayed or cancelled. in addition, these cuts could adversely affect the viability of the suppliers and subcontractors under our programs. the reduction or termination of funding, or changes in the timing of funding, for u.s. government programs in which we currently provide, or propose to provide, products or services would result in a reduction or loss of anticipated future revenues and could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. u.s. government contracts may be terminated at any time and may contain other unfavorable provisions. the u.s. government typically can terminate or modify any of its contracts with us either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. in the event of termination for the u.s. government convenience, contractors are generally protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contracts and profit on those costs but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. a termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability, including but not limited to, liability for re-procurement costs, and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. if any of our contracts are terminated by the u.s. government whether for convenience or default, our backlog and anticipated revenues would be reduced by the expected value of the remaining work under such contracts. on those contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our products and services as a subcontractor. in addition, u.s. government contracts generally require the contractor to continue to perform on the contract even if the u.s. government is unable to make timely payments; failure to continue contract performance places the contractor at risk of termination for default. any such event could result in a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to procurement rules and regulations as well as changes in the department of defense (dod) acquisition practices. we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of u.s. government contracts. these laws and regulations, among other things, require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiation, define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based u.s. government contracts, and restrict the use and dissemination of classified information and the exportation of certain products and technical data. our u.s. government contracts contain provisions that allow the u.s. government to unilaterally suspend or debar us from receiving new contracts for a period of time, reduce the value of existing contracts, issue modifications to a contract, and control and potentially prohibit the export of our products, services and 9 table of contents associated materials. a number of our u.s. government contracts contain provisions that require us to make disclosure to the inspector general of the agency that is our customer if we have credible evidence that we have violated u.s. criminal laws involving fraud, conflict of interest, or bribery; the u.s. civil false claims act; or received a significant overpayment under a u.s. government contract. failure to properly and timely disclose may result in a termination for default or cause, suspension and/or debarment, and potential fines. the dod has issued guidance to its acquisition workforce to obtain greater efficiency and productivity in defense spending by undertaking actions in five major areas (known as the better buying power initiative ): target affordability and control cost growth; incentivize productivity and innovation; promote competition; improve tradecraft in services acquisition; and reduce non-productive processes and bureaucracy. this initiative is expected to significantly affect the contracting environment in which we do business with our dod customers and could have a significant impact on current programs, as well as new business opportunities. changes to the dod acquisition system and contracting models could affect whether and, if so, how we pursue certain opportunities and the terms under which we are able to do so. as a u.s. government contractor, our businesses and systems are subject to audit and review by the defense contract audit agency (dcaa) and the defense contract management agency (dcma). we operate in a highly regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the u.s. government and its agencies such as dcaa and dcma. these agencies review our performance under our contracts, our cost structure and our compliance with laws and regulations applicable to u.s. government contractors. systems that are subject to review include, but are not limited to, our accounting systems, estimating systems, material management and accounting systems, earned value management systems, purchasing systems and government property systems. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions that may include the termination of our contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and, under certain circumstances, suspension or debarment from future contracts for a period of time. whether or not illegal activities are alleged, the u.s. government also has the ability to decrease or withhold certain payments when it deems systems subject to its review to be inadequate. these laws and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. cost overruns on u.s. government contracts could subject us to losses or adversely affect our future business. under fixed-price contracts, as a general rule, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur, and, consequently, any costs in excess of the fixed price are absorbed by us. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates used in developing the pricing for such contracts may adversely affect our results of operations. under time and materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. under cost-reimbursement contracts, which are subject to a contract-ceiling amount, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based. however, if our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs. under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs we incur in performing under the contract, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. cost overruns also may adversely affect our ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards. weak demand for our aircraft products may continue to adversely affect our financial results. as a result of the worldwide economic downturn over the past several years we have experienced weak demand for our new and used aircraft, a tightening of credit availability for potential purchasers of our aircraft, and a substantial number of cancellations of orders and customer requests for delayed delivery of ordered aircraft. soft demand for new and pre-owned jets and helicopters could persist and could continue to adversely impact the pricing of new aircraft and the valuation of used aircraft. concerns regarding the financial stability of certain eurozone countries, the overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a single currency may have an adverse impact on financial institutions and capital markets in europe and globally which could impede the ability of our customers to obtain financing to purchase our aircraft and further reduce demand for our products. in addition, both u.s. and foreign governments and government agencies regulate the aviation industry; they may impose new regulations with additional aircraft security or other requirements or restrictions, including, for example, restrictions and/or fees related to carbon emissions levels that may adversely impact demand for jets and/or helicopters. a prolonged weakness in the markets for our commercial aircraft products could adversely impact our results of operations and our future prospects. difficult economic conditions could continue to affect the performance of our finance segment and our credit losses may increase if we are unable to successfully collect our finance receivables or realize sufficient value from collateral. the financial performance of our finance segment depends on the quality of loans, leases and other assets in its finance asset portfolios. portfolio quality may be adversely affected by several factors, including finance receivable underwriting procedures, collateral quality, geographic or industry concentrations, and the effect of general economic conditions on our customers businesses. the performance of our liquidating non-captive finance receivable portfolios may be adversely affected by other variables, including changes in our liquidation strategy, the loss of personnel and changes in external factors affecting the value and/or marketability of our assets. valuations of the types of collateral securing our golf mortgage portfolio, which we are 10 table of contents continuing to liquidate, has been and may continue to be adversely affected by the market for golf courses in the u.s. and general economic conditions. valuations of the types of collateral securing our captive finance portfolio, particularly valuations of used aircraft, have decreased over the past several years and may continue to decrease if weak economic conditions continue. declining collateral values could result in greater delinquencies, credit losses and foreclosures if customers elect to discontinue payments on loan balances that exceed asset values or, in the case of assets in our liquidating portfolios, if they are unable to obtain alternative sources of financing at loan maturity. bankruptcy proceedings involving our borrowers may prevent or delay our ability to exercise our rights and remedies and realize the full value of our collateral. significant delay or difficulty in executing the continued liquidation of our liquidating portfolios and/or substantial losses in any of our finance asset portfolios could negatively impact the ability of our finance segment to generate the cash necessary to service its debt, including intercompany debt, resulting in adverse effects on our cash flow, profitability and financial condition. we may need to obtain financing in order to meet our debt obligations in the future; such financing may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all. we may periodically need to obtain financing in order to meet our debt obligations as they come due. although we currently have access to the capital markets, we may not be able to refinance our credit facilities or maturing debt at the time that such financing is necessary at terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. our ability to access the credit markets, and the cost of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of our credit ratings and current market conditions. failure to maintain credit ratings that are acceptable to investors may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain financing. if we cannot obtain adequate sources of credit on favorable terms, or at all, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. our ability to fund our captive financing activities at economically competitive levels depends on our ability to borrow and the cost of borrowing in the credit markets. our finance segment ability to continue to offer customer financing for the products that we manufacture, and the long-term viability and profitability of the captive finance business, is largely dependent on our ability to obtain funding at a reasonable cost. this ability and cost, in turn, are dependent on our credit ratings and are subject to credit market volatility. if we are unable to continue to offer customer financing or if we are unable to offer competitive customer financing, it could negatively impact our manufacturing group ability to generate sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. failure to perform by our subcontractors or suppliers could adversely affect our performance. we rely on other companies to provide raw materials, major components and subsystems for our products. subcontractors also perform services that we provide to our customers in certain circumstances. we depend on these suppliers and subcontractors to meet our contractual obligations to our customers and conduct our operations. our ability to meet our obligations to our customers may be adversely affected if suppliers or subcontractors do not provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services in compliance with customer requirements and in a timely and cost-effective manner. likewise, the quality of our products may be adversely impacted if companies to whom we delegate manufacture of major components or subsystems for our products, or from whom we acquire such items, do not provide components or subsystems which meet required specifications and perform to our and our customers expectations. our suppliers may be less likely than us to be able to quickly recover from natural disasters and other events beyond their control and may be subject to additional risks such as financial problems that limit their ability to conduct their operations. the risk of these adverse effects may be greater in circumstances where we rely on only one or two subcontractors or suppliers for a particular raw material, product or service. in particular, in the aircraft industry, most vendor parts are certified by the regulatory agencies as part of the overall type certificate for the aircraft being produced by the manufacturer. if a vendor does not or cannot supply its parts, then the manufacturer production line may be stopped until the manufacturer can design, manufacture and certify a similar part itself or identify and certify another similar vendor part, resulting in significant delays in the completion of aircraft. such events may adversely affect our financial results, damage our reputation and relationships with our customers, and result in regulatory actions and/or litigation. our business could be negatively impacted by information technology security threats and other disruptions. as a u.s. defense contractor, we face certain security threats, including threats to our information technology infrastructure and unlawful attempts to gain access to our proprietary or classified information. our information technology networks and related systems are critical to the smooth operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day to day operations. an information technology system failure or breach of data security could disrupt our operations, cause the loss of business information or the compromise of confidential information, require significant management attention and resources and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, we outsource certain support functions, including certain global information technology infrastructure services, to third-party service providers. any disruption of such outsourced processes or functions also could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. 11 table of contents developing new products and technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties. to continue to grow our revenues and segment profit, we must successfully develop new products and technologies or modify our existing products and technologies for our current and future markets. our future performance depends, in part, on our ability to identify emerging technological trends and customer requirements in our current and future markets and to develop and maintain competitive products and services. delays or cost overruns in the development and acceptance of new products, or certification of new aircraft and other products, could affect our financial results of operations. these delays could be caused by unanticipated technological hurdles, production changes to meet customer demands, unanticipated difficulties in obtaining required regulatory certifications of new aircraft products, coordination with joint venture partners or failure on the part of our suppliers to deliver components as agreed. changes in environmental laws and regulations, for example, those enacted in response to climate change concerns and other actions known as green initiatives, could lead to the necessity for new or additional investment in product designs or manufacturing processes and could increase environmental compliance expenditures, including costs to defend regulatory reviews. we also could be adversely affected if the general efficacy of our research and development investments to develop products is less than expected or if we do not adequately protect the intellectual property developed through our research and development efforts. likewise, new products and technologies could generate unanticipated safety or other concerns resulting in expanded product liability risks, potential product recalls and other regulatory issues that could have an adverse impact on us. furthermore, because of the lengthy research and development cycle involved in bringing certain of our products to market, we cannot predict the economic conditions that will exist when any new product is complete. a reduction in capital spending in the aerospace or defense industries could have a significant effect on the demand for new products and technologies under development, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, there can be no assurance that the market for our offerings will develop or continue to expand as we currently anticipate. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing technologies which gain market acceptance in advance of our products. a significant failure in our new product development efforts or the failure of our products or services to achieve market acceptance more rapidly than our competitors could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our business is subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries. our international business, including u.s. exports, exposes us to certain unique and potentially greater risks than our domestic business. our exposure to such risks increases as our international business continues to grow. our international business is subject to u.s. and local government regulations and procurement policies and practices, which may change from time to time, including regulations relating to import-export control; environmental, health and safety; investments; exchange controls; and repatriation of earnings or cash settlement challenges, as well as to varying currency, geopolitical and economic risks. these international risks may be especially significant with respect to aerospace and defense products for which we sometimes first must obtain licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before we are permitted to sell our products outside the u.s. any significant impairment of our ability to sell products outside the u.s. could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, some international government customers require contractors to agree to specific in-country purchases, manufacturing agreements or financial support arrangements, known as offsets, as a condition for a contract award. the contracts generally extend over several years and may include penalties if we fail to meet the offset requirements, which could adversely impact our revenues, profitability and cash flows. additionally, we are facing increasing competition in our international markets from foreign and multinational firms that may have certain home country advantages over us; as a result, our ability to compete successfully in those markets may be adversely affected, which could negatively impact our profitability. we maintain manufacturing facilities, services centers, supply centers and other facilities worldwide, including in various emerging market countries. we also have entered into, and expect to continue to enter into, joint venture arrangements in emerging market countries, some of which may require guaranties or other commitments. we expect that our investment in emerging market countries will continue to increase. emerging market operations can present many risks in addition to those discussed above, including civil disturbances, economic and government instability, terrorism and related safety concerns, health concerns, cultural differences in employment and business practices, the imposition of exchange controls and risks associated with inadequate infrastructures to deal with natural disasters. the impact of any one or more of these or other factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. we also are exposed to risks associated with using foreign representatives and consultants for international sales and operations and teaming with international subcontractors and suppliers in connection with international programs. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act. although we implement policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, any such violation by any of our international representatives, consultants, subcontractors or suppliers, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. 12 table of contents we are subject to increasing compliance risks that could adversely affect our operating results. as a global business, we are subject to laws and regulations in the u.s. and other countries in which we operate. our increased focus on international sales and global operations requires importing and exporting goods and technology, some of which have military applications subjecting them to more stringent import-export controls across international borders on a regular basis. both u.s. and foreign laws and regulations applicable to us have been increasing in scope and complexity. for example, we could be affected by u.s. or foreign laws or regulations imposed in response to climate change concerns. likewise, pursuant to the requirements of the dodd-frank act, we will be required to report on our use of conflict minerals originating from the democratic republic of congo and surrounding countries. compliance with the proposed rules to implement this provision of the dodd-frank act is expected to be time-consuming and costly. in addition, these new requirements could affect the cost and availability of minerals used to manufacture certain of our products. changes in laws and regulations or in related interpretation and policies and new laws and regulations could increase our costs of doing business, affect how we conduct our operations and limit our ability to sell our products and services. in addition, a violation of u.s. and/or foreign laws by one of our employees or business partners could subject us or our employees to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions, including denial of import or export privileges and debarment as a government contractor. these improper actions could damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our business. we are subject to legal proceedings and other claims. we are subject to legal proceedings and other claims arising out of the conduct of our business, including proceedings and claims relating to commercial and financial transactions; government contracts; lack of compliance with applicable laws and regulations; production partners; product liability; patent and trademark infringement; employment disputes; and environmental, safety and health matters. on the basis of information presently available, we do not believe that existing proceedings and claims will have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. however, litigation is inherently unpredictable, and we could incur judgments or enter into settlements for current or future claims that could adversely affect our financial position or our results of operations in any particular period. intellectual property infringement claims of others and the inability to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our customers. intellectual property infringement claims may be asserted by third parties against us or our customers. any related indemnification payments or legal costs we may be obliged to pay on behalf of our businesses, our customers or other third parties could be costly. in addition, we own the rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names, trade names and trade secrets that are important to our business. the inability to enforce these intellectual property rights may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. additionally, our intellectual property could be at risk due to various cyber threats. certain of our products are subject to laws regulating consumer products and could be subject to repurchase or recall as a result of safety issues. as a distributor of consumer products in the u.s., certain of our products also are subject to the consumer product safety act, which empowers the u.s. consumer product safety commission (cpsc) to exclude from the market products that are found to be unsafe or hazardous. under certain circumstances, the cpsc could require us to repair, replace or refund the purchase price of one or more of our products, or potentially even discontinue entire product lines, or we may voluntarily do so, but within strictures recommended by the cpsc. the cpsc also can impose fines or penalties on a manufacturer for non-compliance with its requirements. furthermore, failure to timely notify the cpsc of a potential safety hazard can result in significant fines being assessed against us. any repurchases or recalls of our products or an imposition of fines or penalties could be costly to us and could damage the reputation or the value of our brands. additionally, laws regulating certain consumer products exist in some states, as well as in other countries in which we sell our products, and more restrictive laws and regulations may be adopted in the future. if we fail to comply with the covenants contained in our various debt agreements, it may adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. our credit facility contains affirmative and negative covenants, including (i) limitations on creation of liens on assets of textron inc. or of its manufacturing subsidiaries; (ii) maintenance of existence and properties; and (iii) maintenance of a maximum debt to capital ratio (as defined and excluding our finance segment) of 65%. the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes also contain covenants, including limitations on creation of liens on certain principal manufacturing facilities and shares of stock of subsidiaries that own such facilities and restrictions on sale and leaseback transactions with respect to such facilities. in addition, both the credit facility and the indentures provide that consolidations, mergers or sale of all or substantially all of our assets may be effected only if we comply with certain provisions. some of these covenants may limit our ability to engage in certain financing structures, create liens, sell assets, or effect a consolidation or merger. 13 table of contents our credit facility also contains a cross-default provision that would trigger an event of default thereunder if we fail to pay or otherwise have a continued default under other indebtedness of textron inc. or any of our subsidiaries, other than any of our subsidiaries that primarily are engaged in the business of a finance company, of more than $100 million. similarly, the supplemental indenture governing our convertible notes contains a cross-default provision that would trigger an event of default thereunder if we fail to pay or otherwise have a continued default under other indebtedness of textron inc. or any of our subsidiaries, other than tfc or its subsidiaries, of more than $100 million. therefore, cessna finance export corporation, a subsidiary of textron inc. that is the borrower under our export-import bank facilities, and textron aviation finance corporation, a subsidiary of textron inc. that is the borrower under our export development canada (edc) facilities, would be included within the cross-default provision of the supplemental indenture for the convertible notes, although not within the similar provision in our credit facility. as a result, a failure to pay or a continued default under any one or more of these facilities, if related to aggregate outstanding indebtedness of $100 million or more, could give rise to an event of default with respect to our convertible notes. in addition, a bankruptcy or monetary judgment in excess of $100 million against us or any of our subsidiaries that accounts for more than 5% of our consolidated revenues or our consolidated assets, including our finance subsidiaries, also could result in an event of default under our credit facility, and a bankruptcy against us or any of our non-finance significant subsidiaries (within the meaning of the securities and exchange commission rules) also would result in an event of default under the indenture governing our convertible notes. our failure to comply with material provisions or covenants in the credit facility or the indentures, or the failure of certain of our subsidiaries to comply with their debt agreements, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. the increasing costs of certain employee and retiree benefits could adversely affect our results. our earnings and cash flow may be adversely impacted by the amount of income or expense we expend or record for employee benefit plans. this is particularly true for our defined benefit pension plans, where required contributions to those plans and related expenses are driven by, among other things, our assumptions of the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate used for future payment obligations and the rates of future cost growth. additionally, as part of our annual evaluation of these plans, significant changes in our assumptions, due to changes in economic, legislative and/or demographic experience or circumstances, or changes in our actual investment returns could impact our unfunded status of the plans requiring us to substantially increase our pension liability with a resulting decrease in shareholders equity. changes in the funded status of these plans are recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) in the year in which they occur. also, changes in pension legislation and regulations could increase the cost associated with our defined benefit pension plans. in addition, medical costs are rising at a rate faster than the general inflation rate. continued medical cost inflation in excess of the general inflation rate would increase the risk that we will not be able to mitigate the rising costs of medical benefits. moreover, we expect that some of the requirements of the new comprehensive healthcare law will increase our future costs. increases to the costs of pension and medical benefits could have an adverse effect on our financial results of operations. our business could be adversely affected by strikes or work stoppages and other labor issues. approximately 6,200 of our u.s. employees, or 25% of our total u.s. employees, are unionized, and approximately 2,600 of our non-u.s. employees, or 32% of our total non-u.s. employees, are represented by organized councils. as a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, resulting in strain on our relationships with our customers and a loss of revenues. in addition, the presence of unions may limit our flexibility in responding to competitive pressures in the marketplace, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results of operations. in addition, the workforces of many of our customers and suppliers are represented by labor unions. work stoppages or strikes at the plants of our key customers could result in delayed or canceled orders for our products. work stoppages and strikes at the plants of our key suppliers could disrupt our manufacturing processes. any of these results could adversely affect our financial results of operations. currency, raw material price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates. in particular, the uncertainty with respect to the ability of certain european countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations and the related european financial restructuring efforts may cause the value of the euro to fluctuate. currency variations also contribute to variations in sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. for example, in the event that one or more european countries were to replace the euro with another currency, our sales into such countries, or into europe generally, would likely be adversely affected until stable exchange rates are established. accordingly, fluctuations in 14 table of contents foreign currency rates could adversely affect our profitability in future periods. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. in some cases, we purchase derivatives or enter into contracts to insulate our financial results of operations from these fluctuations. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates can have substantial adverse effects on our financial results of operations. we may be unable to effectively mitigate pricing pressures. in some markets, particularly where we deliver component products and services to original equipment manufacturers, we face ongoing customer demands for price reductions, which sometimes are contractually obligated. however, if we are unable to effectively mitigate future pricing pressures through technological advances or by lowering our cost base through improved operating and supply chain efficiencies, our financial results of operations could be adversely affected. the levels of our reserves are subject to many uncertainties and may not be adequate to cover write-downs or losses. we establish reserves to cover uncollectable finance receivables and accounts receivable, excess or obsolete inventory, fair market value write-downs on used aircraft and golf cars, recall campaigns, environmental remediation, warranty costs and litigation. these reserves are subject to adjustment from time to time depending on actual experience and/or current market conditions and are subject to many uncertainties, including bankruptcy or other financial problems at key customers, as well as changing market conditions. due to the nature of our manufacturing business, we may be subject to liability claims arising from accidents involving our products, including claims for serious personal injuries or death caused by climatic factors or by pilot, driver or user error. in the case of litigation matters for which reserves have not been established because the loss is not deemed probable, it is reasonably possible that such matters could be decided against us and could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures in amounts that are not presently estimable. in addition, we cannot be certain that our reserves are adequate and that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover one or more substantial claims. furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain insurance coverage at acceptable levels and costs in the future. unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in both the u.s. and various non-u.s. jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among these different jurisdictions. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes to unrecognized tax benefits or changes in tax laws, which could affect our profitability. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income, as well as changes to applicable statutory tax rates. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a tax authority could affect our profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risks our financial results are affected by changes in the u.s. and foreign interest rates. as part of managing this risk, we seek to achieve a prudent balance between floating- and fixed-rate exposures. we continually monitor our mix of these exposures and adjust the mix, as necessary. for our finance group, we limit our risk to changes in interest rates for the captive business with a strategy of matching floating-rate assets with floating-rate liabilities, which includes the use of interest rate exchange agreements. foreign exchange risks our financial results are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates in the various countries in which our products are manufactured and/or sold. for our manufacturing operations, we manage exposures to foreign currency assets and earnings primarily by funding certain foreign currency-denominated assets with liabilities in the same currency so that certain exposures are naturally offset. we primarily use borrowings denominated in euro and british pound sterling for these purposes. in managing our foreign currency transaction exposures, we also enter into foreign currency forward exchange and option contracts. these contracts generally are used to fix the local currency cost of purchased goods or services or selling prices denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. the notional amount of outstanding foreign exchange contracts and foreign currency options was approximately $0.6 billion at the end of 2011 and 2010. the impact of foreign exchange rate changes for 2011 and 2010 from the prior year for each period is provided below: (in millions) 2011 2010 impact of foreign exchange rates increased (decreased): revenues $ 77 $ (34 ) segment profit 8 (7 ) quantitative risk measures in the normal course of business, we enter into financial instruments for purposes other than trading. to quantify the market risk inherent in our financial instruments, we utilize a sensitivity analysis. the financial instruments that are subject to market risk (interest rate risk, foreign exchange rate risk and equity price risk) include finance receivables (excluding lease receivables), debt (excluding lease obligations), interest rate exchange agreements and foreign currency exchange contracts. presented below is a sensitivity analysis of the fair value of financial instruments outstanding at year-end. we estimate the fair value of the financial instruments using discounted cash flow analysis and indicative market pricing as reported by leading financial news and data providers. this sensitivity analysis is most likely not indicative of actual results in the future. the following table illustrates the sensitivity to a hypothetical change in the fair value of the financial instruments assuming a 10% decrease in interest rates and a 10% strengthening in exchange rates against the u.s. dollar: 2011 2010 (in millions) carrying value* fair value* sensitivity of fair value to a 10% change carrying value* fair value* sensitivity of fair value to a 10% change manufacturing group foreign exchange rate risk debt $ (543 ) $ (564 ) $ (56 ) $ (549 ) $ (549 ) $ (55 ) foreign currency exchange contracts 5 5 46 42 42 39 $ (538 ) $ (559 ) $ (10 ) $ (507 ) $ (507 ) $ (16 ) interest rate risk debt $ (2,328 ) $ (2,561 ) $ (14 ) $ (2,172 ) $ (2,698 ) $ (22 ) finance group interest rate risk finance receivables $ 2,415 $ 2,266 $ 90 $ 3,758 $ 3,544 $ 114 debt, including intergroup (2,467 ) (2,347 ) (24 ) (3,975 ) (3,843 ) (47 ) $ (52 ) $ (81 ) $ 66 $ (217 ) $ (299 ) $ 67 * the value represents an asset or (liability). 40 table of contents