risk factors risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect future results risks related to our business depressed and uncertain general economic conditions may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our business is sensitive to negative changes in general economic conditions, both inside and outside the united states. the continued economic downturn may adversely impact our business, resulting in: reduced demand for our products, delays in the shipment of orders or increases in order cancellations; increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories; increased price pressure for our products and services; and greater risk of impairment to the value, and a detriment to the liquidity, of our future investment portfolio. our operating results and financial condition could be harmed if the markets into which we sell our products decline or do not grow as anticipated. visibility into our markets is limited. our quarterly sales and operating results are highly dependent on the volume and timing of technology-related spending and orders received during the fiscal quarter, which are difficult to forecast and may be cancelled by our customers. in addition, our revenues and earnings forecasts for future fiscal quarters are often based on the expected seasonality or cyclicality of our markets. however, the markets we serve do not always experience the seasonality or cyclicality that we expect. any decline in our customers' markets would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products and services. 12 table of contents the broader semiconductor market is one of the drivers for our business, and therefore, a decrease in the semiconductor market could harm our business. also, if our customers' markets decline, we may not be able to collect on outstanding amounts due to us. such declines could harm our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price, and could limit our profitability. also, in such an environment, pricing pressures could intensify. since a significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed in nature due to sales, r&amp;d and manufacturing costs, if we were unable to respond quickly enough, these pricing pressures could further reduce our operating margins. if we do not introduce successful new products and services in a timely manner to address increased competition, rapid technological changes and changing industry standards, our products and services will become obsolete, and our operating results will suffer. we generally sell our products in industries that are characterized by increased competition through frequent new product and service introductions, rapid technological changes and changing industry standards. in addition, many of the markets in which we operate are seasonal and cyclical. without the timely introduction of new products, services and enhancements, our products and services will become technologically obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. the success of new products and services will depend on several factors, including our ability to: properly identify customer needs; innovate and develop new technologies, services and applications; successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner; manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and on time; differentiate our offerings from our competitors' offerings; price our products competitively; anticipate our competitors' development of new products, services or technological innovations; and control product quality in our manufacturing process. dependence on contract manufacturing and outsourcing other portions of our supply chain may adversely affect our ability to bring products to market and damage our reputation. dependence on outsourced information technology and other administrative functions may impair our ability to operate effectively. as part of our efforts to streamline operations and to cut costs, we outsource aspects of our manufacturing processes and other functions and continue to evaluate additional outsourcing. if our contract manufacturers or other outsourcers fail to perform their obligations in a timely manner or at satisfactory quality levels, our ability to bring products to market and our reputation could suffer. for example, during a market upturn, our contract manufacturers may be unable to meet our demand requirements, which may preclude us from fulfilling our customers' orders on a timely basis. the ability of these manufacturers to perform is largely outside of our control. additionally, changing or replacing our contract manufacturers or other outsourcees could cause disruptions or delays. in addition, we outsource significant portions of our information technology ("it") and other administrative functions. since it is critical to our operations, any failure to perform on the part of our it providers could impair our ability to operate effectively. in addition to the risks outlined above, problems with manufacturing or it outsourcing could result in lower revenues and unrealized efficiencies, and could impact our results of operations and stock price. much of our outsourcing takes place in developing countries and, as a result, may be subject to geopolitical uncertainty. failure to adjust our purchases due to changing market conditions or failure to estimate our customers' demand could adversely affect our income. our income could be harmed if we are unable to adjust our purchases to market fluctuations, including those caused by the seasonal or cyclical nature of the markets in which we operate. the sale of our products and services are dependent, to a large degree, on customers whose industries are subject to seasonal or cyclical trends in the demand for their products. for example, the consumer electronics market is particularly volatile, making demand difficult to anticipate. during a market upturn, we may not be able to purchase sufficient supplies or components to meet increasing product demand, which could materially affect our results. in the past, we have seen a shortage of parts for some of our products. in addition, some of the parts that require custom design are not readily available from alternate suppliers due to their unique design or the length of time necessary for design work. should a supplier cease manufacturing such a component, we would be forced to reengineer our product. in addition to discontinuing parts, suppliers may also extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. in order to secure components for the production of products, we may continue to enter into non-cancellable purchase commitments with vendors, or at times make advance payments to suppliers, which could impact our ability to adjust our inventory to declining market demands. prior commitments of this type have resulted in an excess of parts when demand for communications and electronics products has decreased. if demand for our products is less than we expect, we may experience additional excess and obsolete inventories and be forced to incur additional charges. 13 table of contents our operating results may suffer if our manufacturing capacity does not match the demand for our products. because we cannot immediately adapt our production capacity and related cost structures to rapidly changing market conditions, when demand does not meet our expectations, our manufacturing capacity will likely exceed our production requirements. if, during a general market upturn or an upturn in our business, we cannot increase our manufacturing capacity to meet product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner, which could lead to order cancellations, contract breaches or indemnification obligations. this inability could materially and adversely limit our ability to improve our income, margin and operating results. by contrast, if, during an economic downturn, we had excess manufacturing capacity, then our fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity would adversely affect our income, margins and operating results. economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our results of operations. because we sell our products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. we anticipate that revenue from international operations will continue to represent a majority of our total revenue. in addition, many of our employees, contract manufacturers, suppliers, job functions and manufacturing facilities are located outside the united states. accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: interruption to transportation flows for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in a specific country's or region's political, economic or other conditions; trade protection measures, sanctions, and import or export licensing requirements or restrictions; negative consequences from changes in tax laws; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; differing labor regulations; differing protection of intellectual property; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and volatile political environments or geopolitical turmoil, including regional conflicts, terrorism, and war. we centralize most of our accounting processes at two locations: india and malaysia. these processes include general accounting, inventory cost accounting, accounts payable and accounts receivables functions. if conditions change in those countries, it may adversely affect operations, including impairing our ability to pay our suppliers. our results of operations, as well as our liquidity, may be adversely affected and possible delays may occur in reporting financial results. additionally, we must comply with complex foreign and u.s. laws and regulations, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, and anti-competition regulations. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, restrictions on our business conduct and on our ability to offer our products in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our brand, ability to attract and retain employees, international operations, business and operating results. although we plan to implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate these policies and procedures. in addition, although a substantial amount of our products are priced and paid for in u.s. dollars, many of our products are priced in local currencies and a significant amount of certain types of expenses, such as payroll, utilities, tax and marketing expenses, are paid in local currencies. our hedging programs are designed to reduce, but not always entirely eliminate, within any given 12-month period, the impact of currency exchange rate movements, including those caused by currency controls, which could impact our business, operating results and financial condition by resulting in lower revenue or increased expenses. however, for expenses beyond a 12-month period, our hedging strategy will not mitigate our exchange rate risk. in addition, our currency hedging programs involve third-party financial institutions as counterparties. the weakening or failure of these counterparties may adversely affect our hedging programs and our financial condition through, among other things, a reduction in the number of available counterparties, increasingly unfavorable terms or the failure of counterparties to perform under hedging contracts. significant key customers or large orders may expose us to additional business and legal risks that could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition . certain significant key customers have substantial purchasing power and leverage in negotiating contractual arrangements with us. these customers may demand contract terms that differ considerably from our standard terms and conditions. large orders may also include severe contractual liabilities for us if we fail to provide the quantity and quality of product at the required delivery times. while we attempt to contractually limit our potential liability under such contracts, we may have to agree to some or all of these types of provisions to secure these orders and to continue to grow our business. such actions expose us to significant additional risks, which could result in a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. 14 table of contents our business will suffer if we are not able to retain and hire key personnel. our future success depends partly on the continued service of our key research, engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing, executive and administrative personnel. if we fail to retain and hire a sufficient number of these personnel, we may not be able to maintain or expand our business. the markets in which we operate are dynamic, and we may need to respond with reorganizations, workforce reductions and site closures from time to time. we believe our pay levels are competitive within the regions that we operate. however, there is also intense competition for certain highly technical specialties in geographic areas in which we operate, and it may become more difficult to retain key employees. environmental contamination from past operations could subject us to unreimbursed costs and could harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the properties involved, and environmental contamination caused by ongoing operations could subject us to substantial liabilities in the future. some of our properties are undergoing remediation by hp for subsurface contaminations that were known at the time of agilent's separation from hp in 1999. in connection with agilent's separation from hp, hp and agilent entered into an agreement pursuant to which hp agreed to retain the liability for this subsurface contamination, perform the required remediation and indemnify agilent with respect to claims arising out of that contamination. agilent has assigned its rights and obligations under this agreement to keysight in respect of facilities transferred to us in the separation. as a result, hp will have access to a limited number of our properties to perform remediation. although hp agreed to minimize interference with on-site operations at such properties, remediation activities and subsurface contamination may require us to incur unreimbursed costs and could harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the properties. in connection with the separation, agilent will indemnify us directly for any liabilities related thereto. we cannot be sure that hp will continue to fulfill its remediation obligations or that agilent will continue to fulfill its indemnification obligations. in connection with the separation, agilent also agreed to indemnify us for any liability associated with contamination from past operations at all properties transferred from agilent to keysight. we cannot be sure that agilent will fulfill its indemnification obligations. our current manufacturing processes involve the use of substances regulated under various international, federal, state and local laws governing the environment. as a result, we may become subject to liabilities for environmental contamination, and these liabilities may be substantial. although our policy is to apply strict standards for environmental protection at our sites inside and outside the united states, even if the sites outside the united states are not subject to regulations imposed by foreign governments, we may not be aware of all conditions that could subject us to liability. we and our customers are subject to various governmental regulations, compliance with which may cause us to incur significant expenses, and if we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with certain regulations, we may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, and we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties. we and our customers are subject to various significant international, federal, state and local regulations, including, but not limited to, health and safety, packaging, product content, labor and import/export regulations. these regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. we may be required to incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations or to remedy violations of these regulations. any failure by us to comply with applicable government regulations could also result in cessation of our operations or portions of our operations, product recalls or impositions of fines and restrictions on our ability to carry on or expand our operations. if demand for our products is adversely affected or our costs increase, our business would suffer. our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, like the international standards organization, as well as regulation by other agencies such as the u.s. federal communications commission. we also must comply with work safety rules. if we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our businesses could be harmed. third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products or services. from time to time, third parties may claim that one or more of our products or services infringe their intellectual property rights. we analyze and take action in response to such claims on a case-by-case basis. any dispute or litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming due to the complexity of our technology and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation and could divert our management and key personnel from business operations. a claim of intellectual property infringement could cause us to enter into a costly or restrictive license agreement (which may not be available under acceptable terms, or at all), require us to redesign certain of our products (which would be costly and time-consuming) and/or subject us to significant damages or an injunction against the development and sale of certain products or services. in certain of our businesses, we rely on third-party intellectual property licenses, and we cannot ensure that these licenses will be available to us in the future on terms favorable to us or at all. 15 table of contents third parties may infringe our intellectual property rights, and we may suffer competitive injury or expend significant resources enforcing our intellectual property rights. our success depends in part on our proprietary technology, including technology we obtained through acquisitions. we rely on various intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements, to establish our proprietary rights. if we do not enforce our intellectual property rights successfully, our competitive position may suffer, which could harm our operating results. our pending patent, copyright and trademark registration applications may not be allowed or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents, copyrights or trademarks. in addition, our patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not provide us with a significant competitive advantage. in preparation for the separation and distribution, we have applied for trademarks related to our new global brand name in various jurisdictions worldwide. any successful opposition to our applications in material jurisdictions could impose material costs on us or make it more difficult to protect our brand. different jurisdictions vary widely in the level of protection and priority they give to trademark and other intellectual property rights. we may be required to spend significant resources monitoring our intellectual property rights, and we may or may not be able to detect infringement of such rights by third parties. our competitive position may be harmed if we cannot detect infringement and enforce our intellectual property rights in a timely manner, or at all. in some circumstances, we may choose to not pursue enforcement due to a variety of reasons. in addition, competitors may avoid infringement by designing around our intellectual property rights or by developing non-infringing competing technologies. intellectual property rights and our ability to enforce them may be unavailable or limited in some countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share and could result in lost revenues to the company. furthermore, some of our intellectual property is licensed to others, which allows them to compete with us using that intellectual property. we are or will be subject to ongoing tax examinations of our tax returns by the irs and other tax authorities. an adverse outcome of any such audit or examination by the irs or other tax authority could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are or will be subject to ongoing tax examinations of our tax returns by the irs and other tax authorities in various jurisdictions. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from ongoing tax examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. these assessments can require considerable estimates and judgments. intercompany transactions associated with the sale of inventory, services, intellectual property and cost sharing arrangements are complex and affect our tax liabilities. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in multiple jurisdictions. the outcomes of any tax examinations could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. due to the complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters related to operations post-separation may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued. our effective tax rate may be adversely impacted by, among other things, changes in the mix of our earnings among countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation allowance of deferred tax assets and changes in tax laws. we cannot give any assurance as to what our effective tax rate will be in the future because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate. in addition, we may be impacted by changes in tax laws, including tax rate changes, changes to the laws related to the treatment and remittance of foreign earnings, new tax laws and subsequent interpretations of tax law in the united states and other jurisdictions. if tax incentives change or cease to be in effect, our income taxes could increase significantly. we benefit from tax incentives extended to our foreign subsidiaries to encourage investment or employment. several jurisdictions have granted or are anticipated to grant us tax incentives that require renewal at various times in the future, the most significant being in singapore. we do not expect incentives granted by other tax authorities to have a material impact on the financial statements. the specific conditions of the tax incentives with singapore are being negotiated and have not been finally agreed. however, we expect that these conditions will be different from those currently agreed between agilent and singapore, and will include achieving different thresholds of employment, ownership of certain assets as well as specific types of investment activities within singapore. we believe that we will satisfy such conditions in the future. our taxes could increase if the incentives are not granted or renewed upon expiration. if we cannot or do not wish to satisfy all or portions of the tax incentive conditions, we may lose the related tax incentive and could be required to refund tax incentives previously realized. as a result, our effective tax rate could be higher than it would have been had we maintained the benefits of the tax incentives. 16 table of contents if we suffer a loss to our factories, facilities or distribution system due to a catastrophic event, our operations could be significantly harmed. our factories, facilities and distribution system are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, terrorism or other natural or manmade disasters. in particular, several of our facilities could be subject to a catastrophic loss caused by earthquake or other natural disasters due to their locations. for example, our production facilities, headquarters and laboratories in california and our production facilities in japan are all located in areas with above-average seismic activity. if any of these facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. if such a disruption were to occur, we could breach our agreements, our reputation could be harmed and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. in addition, since we have consolidated our manufacturing facilities, we are more likely to experience an interruption to our operations in the event of a catastrophe in any one location. although we carry insurance for property damage and business interruption, we do not carry insurance or financial reserves for interruptions or potential losses arising from earthquakes or terrorism. also, our third-party insurance coverage will vary from time to time in both type and amount depending on availability, cost and our decision with respect to risk retention. economic conditions and uncertainties in global markets may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain third-party insurance. if our third-party insurance coverage is adversely affected, or to the extent we have elected to self-insure, we may be at a greater risk that our operations will be harmed by a catastrophic loss. as we build our information technology infrastructure and transition our data to our own system, if we experience a significant disruption in, or breach in security of, our information technology systems, or if we fail to implement new systems and software successfully, our business could be adversely affected. we are in the process of transitioning from agilent's information technology system to our own system during the first half of fiscal year 2015. we rely on several centralized information technology systems to provide products and services, maintain financial records, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. if we cannot transition effectively from agilent's existing system and were to experience a prolonged system disruption in the information technology systems that involve our interactions with customers or suppliers, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. in addition, our information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophes or other unforeseen events. furthermore, security breaches of our information technology systems could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to the company or our employees, partners, customers or suppliers, which could result in significant financial or reputational damage to the company. our business and financial results may be adversely affected by various legal and regulatory proceedings. we are subject to legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims in the normal course of business and could become subject to additional claims in the future, some of which could be material. the outcome of existing proceedings, lawsuits and claims may differ from our expectations because the outcomes of litigation are often difficult to reliably predict. various factors or developments can lead us to change current estimates of liabilities and related insurance receivables where applicable, or permit us to make such estimates for matters previously not susceptible to reasonable estimates, such as a significant judicial ruling or judgment, a significant settlement, significant regulatory developments or changes in applicable law. a future adverse ruling, settlement or unfavorable development could result in charges that could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. our acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures may result in financial results that are different than expected. in the normal course of business, we may engage in discussions with third parties relating to possible acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures. as a result of such transactions, our financial results may differ from our own or the investment community's expectations in a given fiscal quarter, or over the long term. if market conditions or other factors lead us to change our strategic direction, we may not realize the expected value from such transactions. further, such transactions often have post-closing arrangements, including, but not limited to, post-closing adjustments, transition services, escrows or indemnifications, the financial results of which can be difficult to predict. in addition, acquisitions and strategic alliances may require us to integrate a different company culture, management team and business infrastructure. we may have difficulty developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company in a way that enhances the performance of our businesses or product lines to realize the value from expected synergies. depending on the size and complexity of an acquisition, the successful integration of the entity depends on a variety of factors, including: the retention of key employees and/or customers; the management of facilities and employees in different geographic areas; and the compatibility of our infrastructure, policies and organizations with those of the acquired company. 17 table of contents if we do not realize the expected benefits or synergies of such transactions, our combined and consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price could be negatively impacted. in addition, effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable and accurate financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. we anticipate devoting significant resources and time to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. however, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we design, implement and maintain adequate control over our financial processes and reporting in the future, especially in the context of acquisitions of other businesses. any difficulties in the assimilation of acquired businesses into our control system could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock and our access to capital. all of these efforts require varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. we have substantial cash requirements in the united states, although most of our cash is generated outside of the united states. the failure to maintain a level of cash sufficient to address our cash requirements in the united states could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. although the cash generated in the united states from our operations, including any cash and non-permanently invested earnings repatriated to the united states, is expected to cover our normal operating requirements and debt service requirements, a substantial amount of additional cash may be required for special purposes such as the maturity of our current and future debt obligations, any dividends that may be declared, any future stock repurchase programs and any acquisitions. if we encounter a significant need for liquidity domestically or at a particular location that we cannot fulfill through borrowings, equity offerings or other internal or external sources, we may incur unfavorable tax and earnings consequences. these adverse consequences would occur, for example, if the transfer of cash into the united states is taxed and no foreign tax credit is available to offset the u.s. tax liability, resulting in higher taxes. foreign exchange ceilings imposed by local governments and the sometimes lengthy approval processes that foreign governments require for international cash transfers may delay our internal cash transfers from time to time. these factors may cause us to have an overall tax rate higher than our tax rates have been in the past. our business, operating results, financial condition and strategic initiatives could be adversely impacted if we are unable to address our u.s. cash requirements through the efficient and timely repatriations of overseas cash or other sources of cash obtained at a cost and on other terms acceptable to us. we have outstanding debt and may incur other debt in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. we currently have outstanding debt as well as availability to borrow under a revolving credit facility. we may borrow additional amounts in the future and use the proceeds from any future borrowing for general corporate purposes, future acquisitions, expansion of our business or repurchases of our outstanding shares of common stock. our incurrence of this debt, and increases in our aggregate levels of debt, may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition by, among other things: requiring a portion of our cash flow from operations to make interest payments on this debt; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; reducing the cash flow available to fund capital expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow our business; and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry. our current revolving credit facility imposes restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to create liens on our assets and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur indebtedness, and requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. in addition, the indenture governing our senior notes contains covenants that may adversely affect our ability to incur certain liens or engage in certain types of sale and leaseback transactions. if we breach any of the covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness could be declared immediately due and payable. we may need additional financing in the future to meet our capital needs or to make opportunistic acquisitions, and such financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, if at all, and may be dilutive to existing shareholders. we may need to seek additional financing for our general corporate purposes. for example, we may need to increase our investment in r&amp;d activities or need funds to make acquisitions. we may be unable to obtain any desired additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. if adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our expansion, successfully develop or enhance products or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could negatively affect our business. if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, our shareholders will experience dilution of their ownership interest. if we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to further limitations on our operations and ability to pay dividends due to restrictive covenants. 18 table of contents adverse conditions in the global banking industry and credit markets may adversely impact the value of our cash investments or impair our liquidity. as of the distribution, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $810 million invested or held in a mix of money market funds, time deposit accounts and bank demand deposit accounts. disruptions in the financial markets may, in some cases, result in an inability to access assets such as money market funds that traditionally have been viewed as highly liquid. any failure of our counterparty financial institutions or funds in which we have invested may adversely impact our cash and cash equivalent positions and, in turn, our results and financial condition. future investment returns on pension assets may be lower than expected or interest rates may decline, requiring us to make significant additional cash contributions to our future plans. we sponsor several defined benefit pension plans that cover many of our salaried and hourly employees. the federal pension protection act of 2006 requires that certain capitalization levels be maintained in each of the u.s. plans and there may be similar funding requirements in the plans outside the united states. because it is unknown what the investment return on pension assets will be in future years or what interest rates may be at any point in time, no assurances can be given that applicable law will not require us to make future material plan contributions. any such contributions could adversely affect our financial condition. risks related to the separation we have no history of operating as an independent company, and our historical financial information is not necessarily representative of the results that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly-traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. the historical information about the company prior to fiscal year 2015 refers to our business as operated by and integrated with agilent. our historical financial information included in this form 10-k is derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of agilent. accordingly, the historical financial information does not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly-traded company during the periods presented or those that we will achieve in the future primarily as a result of the factors described below: prior to the separation, our business has been operated by agilent as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent company. agilent or one of its affiliates performed various corporate functions for us such as legal, treasury, accounting, auditing, human resources, corporate affairs and finance. our historical financial results reflect allocations of corporate expenses from agilent for such functions and are likely to be less than the expenses we would have incurred had we operated as a separate publicly-traded company. following the separation, our cost related to such functions previously performed by agilent may therefor increase; our business was integrated with the other businesses of agilent. historically, we shared economies of scope and scale in costs, employees, vendor relationships and customer relationships. although our transition agreements with agilent took effect upon the separation, these arrangements may not fully capture the benefits that we enjoyed as a result of being integrated with agilent and may result in the company paying higher charges than in the past for these services. this could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition following the separation; generally, our working capital requirements and capital for our general corporate purposes, including acquisitions and capital expenditures, have historically been satisfied as part of the corporate-wide cash management policies of agilent. following the separation, we may need to obtain additional financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, strategic relationships or other arrangements; after the separation, the cost of capital for our business may be higher than agilent's cost of capital prior to the separation; and our historical financial information does not reflect the debt or the associated interest expense that we have incurred as part of the separation and distribution. other significant changes may occur in our cost structure, management, financing and business operations as a result of operating as a company separate from agilent. for additional information about the past financial performance of our business and the basis of presentation of the historical combined and consolidated financial statements, see "selected historical combined and consolidated financial data," "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and the historical financial statements and accompanying notes included elsewhere in this form 10-k. potential indemnification liabilities to agilent pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the separation and distribution agreement provides for, among other things, indemnification obligations designed to make us financially responsible for any liabilities associated with assets used by our business; our failure to pay, perform or otherwise promptly discharge any such liabilities or contracts, in accordance with their respective terms, whether prior to, at or after the 19 table of contents distribution; any guarantee, indemnification obligation, surety bond or other credit support agreement, arrangement, commitment or understanding by agilent for our benefit, unless they are liabilities related to assets used in the agilent business; any breach by us of the separation agreement or any of the ancillary agreements or any action by us in contravention of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws; and any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, with respect to all information contained in the registration statement or any other disclosure document that describes the separation or the distribution or the company and its subsidiaries or primarily relates to the transactions contemplated by the separation and distribution agreement, subject to certain exceptions. if we are required to indemnify agilent under the circumstances set forth in the separation and distribution agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. in connection with our separation from agilent, agilent will indemnify us for certain liabilities. however, there can be no assurance that the indemnity will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that agilent's ability to satisfy its indemnification obligation will not be impaired in the future. pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement and certain other agreements with agilent, agilent agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. however, third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that agilent has agreed to retain, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from agilent will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that agilent will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. in addition, agilent's insurers may attempt to deny us coverage for liabilities associated with certain occurrences of indemnified liabilities prior to the separation. moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from agilent or such insurance providers any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. we will be subject to continuing contingent liabilities of agilent following the separation. after the separation, there will be several significant areas where the liabilities of agilent may become our obligations. for example, under the code and the related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of the agilent u.s. consolidated group during a taxable period or portion of a taxable period ending on or before the effective time of the distribution is severally liable for the u.s. federal income tax liability of the entire agilent u.s. consolidated group for that taxable period. consequently, if agilent is unable to pay the consolidated u.s. federal income tax liability for a prior period, we could be required to pay the entire amount of such tax, which could be substantial and in excess of the amount allocated to it under the tax matters agreement between us and agilent. other provisions of federal law establish similar liability for other matters, including laws governing tax-qualified pension plans, as well as other contingent liabilities. there could be significant liability if the distribution is determined to be a taxable transaction. a condition to the distribution is that agilent received an opinion of baker &amp; mckenzie llp, tax counsel to agilent, regarding the qualification of the separation and the distribution as a reorganization within the meaning of sections 355(a) and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code. the opinion relies on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from agilent and keysight, including those regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters. if any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not satisfied, agilent and its shareholders may not be able to rely on the opinion, and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. notwithstanding the opinion of tax counsel, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion. if the distribution were determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, agilent and its shareholders that are subject to u.s. federal income tax could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. for example, if the distribution failed to qualify for tax-free treatment, agilent would for u.s. federal income tax purposes be treated as if it had sold the keysight common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and agilent's shareholders, who are subject to u.s. federal income tax, would be treated as receiving a taxable distribution in an amount equal to the fair market value of the keysight common stock received in the distribution. in addition, if the separation and distribution failed to qualify for tax-free treatment under federal, state and local tax law and/or foreign tax law, agilent (and, under the tax matters agreement described below, keysight) could incur significant tax liabilities under u.s. federal, state, local and/or foreign tax law. under the tax matters agreement between agilent and keysight, we are generally required to indemnify agilent against taxes incurred by agilent that arise as a result of our taking or failing to take, as the case may be, certain actions that result in the distribution failing to meet the requirements of a tax-free distribution under section 355 of the code. under the tax matters agreement between agilent and keysight, we may also be required to indemnify agilent for other contingent tax liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our financial position. 20 table of contents we may not be able to engage in certain corporate transactions for a two-year period after the separation. to preserve the tax-free treatment for u.s. federal income tax purposes to agilent of the separation and distribution, under the tax matters agreement that we have entered into with agilent, we will be restricted from taking any action that prevents the separation and distribution from being tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes. under the tax matters agreement, for the two-year period following the distribution, we are prohibited, except in certain circumstances, from entering into acquisition, merger, liquidation, sale and stock redemption transactions with respect to our stock if such transactions, taken as a whole, would result in one or more persons acquiring forty percent (40%) or more of the outstanding keysight stock. these restrictions may limit our ability to pursue certain strategic transactions or other transactions that it may believe to be in the best interests of our shareholders or that might increase the value of our business. in addition, under the tax matters agreement, we may be required to indemnify agilent against any such tax liabilities as a result of the acquisition of keysight's stock or assets, even if we did not participate in or otherwise facilitate the acquisition. our accounting and other management systems and resources may not be adequately prepared to meet the financial reporting and other requirements to which we are subject as an independent, publicly-traded company. our financial results previously were included within the consolidated results of agilent, and we believe that our financial reporting and internal controls were appropriate for those of subsidiaries of a public company. however, we were not directly subject to the reporting and other requirements of the exchange act. as an independent, publicly-traded company, we are subject to reporting and other obligations under the exchange act, and we are required to comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (the sarbanes-oxley act ), which will require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. the sarbanes-oxley act also requires that we obtain a report by our independent registered public accounting firm expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. these reporting and other obligations may place significant demands on our management, administrative and operational resources, including accounting systems and resources. the exchange act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. under the sarbanes-oxley act, we are required to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. we expect to incur additional annual expenses for the purpose of addressing these requirements, and those expenses may be significant. if we are unable to upgrade our financial and management controls, reporting systems, information technology systems and procedures in a timely and effective fashion, our ability to comply with our financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to reporting companies under the exchange act could be impaired. any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. certain of our executive officers and directors may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their equity interest in agilent and because certain converted keysight performance share awards held by them will be earned based on the performance of agilent. the ownership by our executive officers and some of our directors of common shares of agilent may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest. because of their current or former positions with agilent, certain of our executive officers and directors own agilent common shares. the individual holdings of common shares may be significant for some of these persons compared to these persons' total assets. further, the fact that our executive officers hold certain converted keysight performance share awards which will be earned based on agilent's performance may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest. specifically, the outstanding agilent performance share awards with a fiscal year 2013-2015 performance period held by our executive officers were converted into performance share awards with respect to keysight common stock upon the separation, but will continue to be subject, for the remainder of the performance period, to the same performance criteria (agilent total shareholder return) as applied immediately prior to the separation. even though our board of directors consist of a majority of directors who are independent, and our executive officers ceased to be employees of agilent upon the separation, continuing ownership of agilent common shares by our executive officers and some of our directors, and continued application of performance criteria based on agilent total shareholder return to certain converted keysight performance share awards held by our executive officers, could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest if keysight and agilent pursue the same corporate opportunities or face decisions that could have different implications for keysight and agilent. we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of the separation, and the separation may adversely affect our business. we may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits expected to result from the separation, or such benefits may be delayed or not occur at all. the separation and distribution is expected to provide the following benefits, among others: a distinct investment identity allowing investors to evaluate the merits, performance and future prospects of keysight separately from agilent; 21 table of contents more effective pursuit of each company's distinct operating priorities and strategies; more efficient allocation of capital for both agilent and keysight; direct access by keysight to the capital markets; and facilitation of incentive compensation arrangements for employees more directly tied to the performance of the relevant company's business, and potential enhancement of employee hiring and retention by, among other things, improving the alignment of management and employee incentives with performance and growth objectives, while at the same time creating an independent equity structure that will facilitate our ability to affect future acquisitions utilizing keysight common stock. we may not achieve these and other anticipated benefits for a variety of reasons, including, among others: (i) the separation will require significant amounts of management's time and effort, which may divert management's attention from operating and growing our business; (ii) following the separation, we may be more susceptible to market fluctuations and other adverse events than if we were still a part of agilent; (iii) following the separation, our business will be less diversified and have less scale than agilent's business prior to the separation; and (iv) the other actions required to separate agilent's and our respective businesses could disrupt our operations. if we fail to achieve some or all of the benefits expected to result from the separation, or if such benefits are delayed, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. keysight or agilent may fail to perform under various transaction agreements that have been executed as part of the separation, or we may fail to have necessary systems and services in place when certain of the transaction agreements expire. in connection with the separation, keysight and agilent have entered into a separation agreement and various other agreements, including a services agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement, an intellectual property matters agreement, a trademark license agreement and a real estate matters agreement. the separation agreement, tax matters agreement, employee matters agreement, intellectual property matters agreement, trademark license agreement and real estate matters agreement determine the allocation of assets and liabilities between the companies following the separation for those respective areas and include any necessary indemnifications related to liabilities and obligations. the services agreement provides for the performance of certain services by each company for the benefit of the other for a period of time after the separation. we will rely on agilent to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these agreements. if agilent is unable to satisfy its obligations under these agreements, including its indemnification obligations, we could incur operational difficulties or losses. if we do not have in place our own systems and services, or if we do not have agreements with other providers of these services once certain transaction agreements expire, we may not be able to operate our business effectively and our profitability may decline. we are in the process of creating our own, or engaging third parties to provide, systems and services to replace many of the systems and services that agilent currently provides to us. however, we may not be successful in implementing these systems and services or in transitioning data from agilent's systems to our own. as we build our information technology infrastructure and transition our data to our own systems, we could incur substantial additional costs and experience temporary business interruptions. we expect to install and implement information technology infrastructure to support our critical business functions, including accounting and reporting, manufacturing process control, customer service, inventory control and distribution. we may incur temporary interruptions in business operations if we cannot transition effectively from agilent's existing transactional and operational systems, data centers and the transition services that support these functions as we replace these systems. we may not be successful in implementing our new systems and transitioning our data, and we may incur substantially higher costs for implementation than currently anticipated. our failure to avoid operational interruptions as we implement the new systems and replace agilent's information technology services, or our failure to implement the new systems and replace agilent's services successfully, could disrupt our business, adversely affect our ability to collect receivables from customers, and have a material adverse effect on our profitability. in addition, if we are unable to replicate or transition certain systems, our ability to comply with regulatory requirements could be impaired. the one-time and ongoing costs of the spin-off may be greater than we expected. we will incur costs in connection with our transition to being a stand-alone public company that relate primarily to accounting, tax, legal and other professional costs; financing costs in connection with obtaining our financing as a stand-alone company; compensation, such as modifications to certain incentive awards upon completion of the spin-off; recruiting and relocation costs associated with hiring our senior management personnel; and costs to separate assets and information systems. these costs, whether incurred before or after the spin-off, may be greater than anticipated and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 22 table of contents potential liabilities may arise due to fraudulent transfer considerations, which would adversely affect our financial condition and our results of operations. in connection with the separation and distribution, agilent has undertaken and will undertake several corporate restructuring transactions which, along with the separation and distribution, may be subject to federal and state fraudulent conveyance and transfer laws. if, under these laws, a court were to determine that, at the time of the separation and distribution, any entity involved in these restructuring transactions or the separation and distribution: was insolvent; was rendered insolvent by reason of the separation and distribution; had remaining assets constituting unreasonably small capital; or intended to incur, or believed it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay these debts as they matured, then the court could void the separation and distribution, in whole or in part, as a fraudulent conveyance or transfer. the court could then require our shareholders to return to agilent some or all of the shares of keysight common stock issued in the distribution, or require agilent or keysight, as the case may be, to fund liabilities of the other company for the benefit of creditors. the measure of insolvency will vary depending upon the jurisdiction whose law is being applied. generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if the fair value of its assets was less than the amount of its liabilities or if it incurred debt beyond its ability to repay the debt as it matures. risks related to our common stock our share price may fluctuate significantly. our common stock is listed on nyse under the ticker symbol keys. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to factors related to our business; success or failure of our business strategy; our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; our ability to obtain third-party financing as needed; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock; changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; the operating and share price performance of other comparable companies; investor perception of our company; natural or other disasters that investors believe may affect us; overall market fluctuations; results from any material litigation or government investigations; changes in laws or regulations affecting our business; and general economic conditions and other external factors. stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. in addition, when the market price of a company's shares drops significantly, shareholders often institute securities class action lawsuits against the company. a lawsuit against us could cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of management and other resources. we cannot guarantee the payment of dividends on our common stock, or the timing or amount of any such dividends. we do not currently expect to pay dividends on our common stock. the payment of any dividends in the future, and the timing and amount thereof, to our shareholders will fall within the discretion of our board of directors. the board's decisions regarding the payment of dividends will depend on many factors, such as our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, debt service obligations, restrictive covenants in our debt, industry practice, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors that the board deems relevant. we cannot guarantee that we will pay a dividend in the future or continue to pay any dividends if we commence paying dividends. 23 table of contents an individual shareholder's percentage ownership in keysight may be diluted in the future. in the future, the percentage ownership in keysight may be diluted because of equity issuances for acquisitions, capital market transactions or otherwise, including equity awards that we will be granting to our directors, officers and employees and purchases of our shares through our employee stock purchase plan. our employees will have options to purchase shares of our common stock after the distribution as a result of conversion of their agilent stock options to keysight stock options. our compensation committee has granted and will grant additional stock options or other stock-based awards to our employees and directors, from time to time, under our employee benefit plans. such awards will have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. in addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our shareholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors generally may determine. the terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. for example, we could grant the holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences that we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock. certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and of delaware law, may prevent or delay an acquisition of the company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain, and delaware law contains, provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. these provisions include, among others: the inability of our shareholders to call a special meeting; the inability of our shareholders to act without a meeting of shareholders; rules regarding how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings; the right of our board to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval; the division of our board of directors into three classes of directors, with each class serving a staggered three-year term, and this classified board provision could have the effect of making the replacement of incumbent directors more time consuming and difficult; a provision that shareholders may only remove directors with cause; the ability of our directors, and not shareholders, to fill vacancies on our board of directors; and the requirement that the affirmative vote of shareholders holding at least 80% of our voting stock is required to amend certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation (relating to the number, term and removal of our directors, the filling of our board vacancies, the advance notice to be given for nominations for elections of directors, the calling of special meetings of shareholders, shareholder action by written consent, the ability of the board of directors to amend the bylaws, elimination of liability of directors to the extent permitted by delaware law, exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders and amendments of the certificate of incorporation) and certain provisions in our amended and restated bylaws (relating to the calling of special meetings of shareholders, the business that may be conducted or considered at annual or special meetings, the advance notice of shareholder business and nominations, shareholder action by written consent, the number, tenure, qualifications and removal of our directors, the filling of our board vacancies, director and officer indemnification and amendments of the bylaws). in addition, because we have not chosen to be exempt from section 203 of the delaware general corporation law (the "dgcl"), this provision could also delay or prevent a change of control that some shareholders may favor. section 203 provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with a person that acquires, more than 15% of the outstanding voting stock of a delaware corporation (an "interested stockholder") shall not engage in any business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which the person became an interested stockholder, unless (i) prior to such time, the board of directors of such corporation approved either the business combination or the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder; (ii) upon consummation of the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of the voting stock of such corporation at the time the transaction commenced (excluding for purposes of determining the voting stock outstanding (but not the outstanding voting stock owned by the interested stockholder) the voting stock owned by directors who are also officers or held in employee benefit plans in which the employees do not have a confidential right to tender or vote stock held by the plan); or (iii) on or subsequent to such time the business combination is approved by the 24 table of contents board of directors of such corporation and authorized at a meeting of shareholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock of such corporation not owned by the interested stockholder. we believe these provisions will protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. these provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. however, these provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of the company and our shareholders. these provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. in addition, an acquisition or further issuance of our stock could trigger the application of section 355(e) of the code. under the tax matters agreement, we would be required to indemnify agilent for the resulting tax, and this indemnity obligation might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that some shareholders may consider favorable. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates that the state courts in the state of delaware or, if no state court located within the state of delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the district of delaware, as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders, which could discourage lawsuits against the company and our directors and officers. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provide that unless the board of directors otherwise determines, the state courts in the state of delaware or, if no state court located within the state of delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the district of delaware, will be the sole and exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors or officers to the company or our shareholders, any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors or officers arising pursuant to any provision of the dgcl or keysight's amended and restated certificate of incorporation or bylaws, or any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors or officers governed by the internal affairs doctrine. this exclusive forum provision may limit the ability of our shareholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum that such shareholders find favorable for disputes with us or our directors or officers, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors and officers. if securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or publish negative reports about our business, our share price and trading volume could decline. the trading market for our common stock depends, to some extent, on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us and our business. we do not have any control over these analysts and the reports they issue. if our financial performance fails to meet analyst estimates or one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our shares or negatively change their opinion of our shares, our share price would likely decline. if one or more analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our share price or trading volume to decline. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries. we hedge future cash flows denominated in currencies other than the functional currency using sales and expense forecasts up to twelve months in advance. our exposure to exchange rate risks is managed on an enterprise-wide basis. this strategy utilizes derivative financial instruments, including option and forward contracts, to hedge certain foreign currency exposures with the intent of offsetting gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures with gains and losses on the derivative contracts hedging them. we do not currently and do not intend to utilize derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. our operations generate non-functional currency cash flows such as revenues, third party vendor payments and inter-company payments. in anticipation of these foreign currency cash flows and in view of volatility of the currency market, we enter into such foreign exchange contracts as are described above to manage our currency risk. approximately 74 percent of our revenues in 2014 , 75 percent of our revenues in 2013 and 76 percent of our revenues in 2012 were generated in u.s. dollars. we performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10 percent adverse movement in foreign exchange rates to the hedging contracts and the underlying exposures described above. as of october 31, 2014 and 2013, the analysis indicated that these hypothetical market movements would not have a material effect on our combined and consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we are also exposed to interest rate risk due to the mismatch between the interest expense we pay on our loans at fixed rates and the variable rates of interest we receive from cash, cash equivalents and other short-term investments. we have issued long-term debt in u.s. dollars at fixed interest rates based on the market conditions at the time of financing. we believe that the fair value of our fixed rate debt changes when the underlying market rates of interest change, and we may use interest rate swaps to modify such market risk. we performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10 percent adverse movement in interest rates relating to the underlying fair value of our fixed rate debt. as of october 31, 2014 , the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10 percent adverse movement in interest rates would result in an immaterial impact to the fair value of our fixed rate debt. 42 table of contentsrisk factors risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect future results risks related to our business depressed and uncertain general economic conditions may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our business is sensitive to negative changes in general economic conditions, both inside and outside the united states. the continued economic downturn may adversely impact our business, resulting in: reduced demand for our products, delays in the shipment of orders or increases in order cancellations; increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories; increased price pressure for our products and services; and greater risk of impairment to the value, and a detriment to the liquidity, of our future investment portfolio. our operating results and financial condition could be harmed if the markets into which we sell our products decline or do not grow as anticipated. visibility into our markets is limited. our quarterly sales and operating results are highly dependent on the volume and timing of technology-related spending and orders received during the fiscal quarter, which are difficult to forecast and may be cancelled by our customers. in addition, our revenues and earnings forecasts for future fiscal quarters are often based on the expected seasonality or cyclicality of our markets. however, the markets we serve do not always experience the seasonality or cyclicality that we expect. any decline in our customers' markets would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products and services. the broader semiconductor market is one of the drivers for our business, and therefore, a decrease in the semiconductor market could harm our business. also, if our customers' markets decline, we may not be able to collect on outstanding amounts due to us. such declines could harm our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price, and could limit our profitability. also, in such an environment, pricing pressures could intensify. since a significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed in nature due to sales, r&amp;d and manufacturing costs, if we were unable to respond quickly enough, these pricing pressures could further reduce our operating margins. if we do not introduce successful new products and services in a timely manner to address increased competition, rapid technological changes and changing industry standards, our products and services will become obsolete, and our operating results will suffer. we generally sell our products in industries that are characterized by increased competition through frequent new product and service introductions, rapid technological changes and changing industry standards. in addition, many of the markets in which we operate are seasonal and cyclical. without the timely introduction of new products, services and enhancements, our products and services will become technologically obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. the success of new products and services will depend on several factors, including our ability to: properly identify customer needs; innovate and develop new technologies, services and applications; successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner; manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and on time; differentiate our offerings from our competitors' offerings; price our products competitively; anticipate our competitors' development of new products, services or technological innovations; and control product quality in our manufacturing process. dependence on contract manufacturing and outsourcing other portions of our supply chain may adversely affect our ability to bring products to market and damage our reputation. dependence on outsourced information technology and other administrative functions may impair our ability to operate effectively. as part of our efforts to streamline operations and to cut costs, we outsource aspects of our manufacturing processes and other functions and continue to evaluate additional outsourcing. if our contract manufacturers or other outsourcers fail to perform their obligations in a timely manner or at satisfactory quality levels, our ability to bring products to market and our reputation could suffer. for example, during a market upturn, our contract manufacturers may be unable to meet our demand requirements, which may preclude us from fulfilling our customers' orders on a timely basis. the ability of these manufacturers to perform is largely outside of our control. additionally, changing or replacing our contract manufacturers or other outsourcees could cause disruptions or delays. in addition, we outsource significant portions of our information technology ("it") and other administrative 13 table of contents functions. since it is critical to our operations, any failure of our it providers to perform could impair our ability to operate effectively. in addition to the risks outlined above, problems with manufacturing or it outsourcing could result in lower revenues and unrealized efficiencies, and could impact our results of operations and stock price. much of our outsourcing takes place in developing countries and, as a result, may be subject to geopolitical uncertainty. failure to adjust our purchases due to changing market conditions or failure to estimate our customers' demand could adversely affect our income. our income could be harmed if we are unable to adjust our purchases to market fluctuations, including those caused by the seasonal or cyclical nature of the markets in which we operate. the sale of our products and services are dependent, to a large degree, on customers whose industries are subject to seasonal or cyclical trends in the demand for their products. for example, the consumer electronics market is particularly volatile, making demand difficult to anticipate. during a market upturn, we may not be able to purchase sufficient supplies or components to meet increasing product demand, which could materially affect our results. in the past, we have seen a shortage of parts for some of our products. in addition, some of the parts that require custom design are not readily available from alternate suppliers due to their unique design or the length of time necessary for design work. should a supplier cease manufacturing such a component, we would be forced to reengineer our product. in addition to discontinuing parts, suppliers may also extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. in order to secure components for the production of products, we may continue to enter into non-cancellable purchase commitments with vendors, or at times make advance payments to suppliers, which could impact our ability to adjust our inventory to declining market demands. prior commitments of this type have resulted in an excess of parts when demand for communications and electronics products has decreased. if demand for our products is less than we expect, we may experience additional excess and obsolete inventories and be forced to incur additional charges. our operating results may suffer if our manufacturing capacity does not match the demand for our products. because we cannot immediately adapt our production capacity and related cost structures to rapidly changing market conditions, when demand does not meet our expectations, our manufacturing capacity will likely exceed our production requirements. if, during a general market upturn or an upturn in our business, we cannot increase our manufacturing capacity to meet product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner, which could lead to order cancellations, contract breaches or indemnification obligations. this inability could materially and adversely limit our ability to improve our income, margin and operating results. by contrast, if, during an economic downturn, we had excess manufacturing capacity, then our fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity would adversely affect our income, margins and operating results. economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our results of operations. because we sell our products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. we anticipate that revenue from international operations will continue to represent a majority of our total revenue. in addition, many of our employees, contract manufacturers, suppliers, job functions and manufacturing facilities are located outside the united states. accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: interruption to transportation flows for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in a specific country's or region's political, economic or other conditions; trade protection measures, sanctions, and import or export licensing requirements or restrictions; negative consequences from changes in tax laws; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; differing labor regulations; differing protection of intellectual property; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and volatile political environments or geopolitical turmoil, including regional conflicts, terrorism, and war. we centralize most of our accounting processes at two locations: india and malaysia. these processes include general accounting, inventory cost accounting, accounts payable and accounts receivables functions. if conditions change in those countries, it may adversely affect operations, including impairing our ability to pay our suppliers. our results of operations, as well as our liquidity, may be adversely affected and possible delays may occur in reporting financial results. additionally, we must comply with complex foreign and u.s. laws and regulations, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, and anti-competition regulations. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, restrictions on our 14 table of contents business conduct and on our ability to offer our products in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our brand, ability to attract and retain employees, international operations, business and operating results. although we plan to implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate these policies and procedures. in addition, although a substantial amount of our products are priced and paid for in u.s. dollars, many of our products are priced in local currencies and a significant amount of certain types of expenses, such as payroll, utilities, tax and marketing expenses, are paid in local currencies. our hedging programs are designed to reduce, but not entirely eliminate, within any given 12-month period, the impact of currency exchange rate movements, including those caused by currency controls, which could impact our business, operating results and financial condition by resulting in lower revenue or increased expenses. however, for expenses beyond a 12-month period, our hedging strategy will not mitigate our exchange rate risk. in addition, our currency hedging programs involve third-party financial institutions as counterparties. the weakening or failure of these counterparties may adversely affect our hedging programs and our financial condition through, among other things, a reduction in the number of available counterparties, increasingly unfavorable terms or the failure of counterparties to perform under hedging contracts. significant key customers or large orders may expose us to additional business and legal risks that could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition . certain significant key customers have substantial purchasing power and leverage in negotiating contractual arrangements with us. these customers may demand contract terms that differ considerably from our standard terms and conditions. large orders may also include severe contractual liabilities for us if we fail to provide the quantity and quality of product at the required delivery times. while we attempt to contractually limit our potential liability under such contracts, we may have to agree to some or all of these types of provisions to secure these orders and to continue to grow our business. such actions expose us to significant additional risks, which could result in a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. our business will suffer if we are not able to retain and hire key personnel. our future success depends partly on the continued service of our key research, engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing, executive and administrative personnel. if we fail to retain and hire a sufficient number of these personnel, we may not be able to maintain or expand our business. the markets in which we operate are dynamic, and we may need to respond with reorganizations, workforce reductions and site closures from time to time. we believe our pay levels are competitive within the regions that we operate. however, there is also intense competition for certain highly technical specialties in geographic areas in which we operate, and it may become more difficult to retain key employees. environmental contamination from past operations could subject us to unreimbursed costs and could harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the properties involved, and environmental contamination caused by ongoing operations could subject us to substantial liabilities in the future. some of our properties are undergoing remediation by hewlett-packard company ("hp") for subsurface contaminations that were known at the time of agilent's separation from hp in 1999. in connection with agilent's separation from hp, hp and agilent entered into an agreement pursuant to which hp agreed to retain the liability for this subsurface contamination, perform the required remediation and indemnify agilent with respect to claims arising out of that contamination. agilent has assigned its rights and obligations under this agreement to keysight in respect of facilities transferred to us in the separation. as a result, hp will have access to a limited number of our properties to perform remediation. although hp agreed to minimize interference with on-site operations at such properties, remediation activities and subsurface contamination may require us to incur unreimbursed costs and could harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the properties. in connection with the separation, agilent will indemnify us directly for any liabilities related thereto. we cannot be sure that hp will continue to fulfill its remediation obligations or that agilent will continue to fulfill its indemnification obligations. in connection with the separation from agilent, agilent also agreed to indemnify us for any liability associated with contamination from past operations at all properties transferred from agilent to keysight. we cannot be sure that agilent will fulfill its indemnification obligations. our current manufacturing processes involve the use of substances regulated under various international, federal, state and local laws governing the environment. as a result, we may become subject to liabilities for environmental contamination, and these liabilities may be substantial. although our policy is to apply strict standards for environmental protection at our sites inside and outside the united states, even if the sites outside the united states are not subject to regulations imposed by foreign governments, we may not be aware of all conditions that could subject us to liability. 15 table of contents we and our customers are subject to various governmental regulations, compliance with which may cause us to incur significant expenses, and if we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with certain regulations, we may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, and we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties. we and our customers are subject to various significant international, federal, state and local regulations, including, but not limited to, health and safety, packaging, product content, labor and import/export regulations. these regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. we may be required to incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations or to remedy violations of these regulations. any failure by us to comply with applicable government regulations could also result in cessation of our operations or portions of our operations, product recalls or impositions of fines and restrictions on our ability to carry on or expand our operations. if demand for our products is adversely affected or our costs increase, our business would suffer. our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, like the international standards organization, as well as regulation by other agencies such as the u.s. federal communications commission. we also must comply with work safety rules. if we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our businesses could be harmed. third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products or services. from time to time, third parties may claim that one or more of our products or services infringe their intellectual property rights. we analyze and take action in response to such claims on a case-by-case basis. any dispute or litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming due to the complexity of our technology and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation and could divert our management and key personnel from business operations. a claim of intellectual property infringement could cause us to enter into a costly or restrictive license agreement (which may not be available under acceptable terms, or at all), require us to redesign certain of our products (which would be costly and time-consuming) and/or subject us to significant damages or an injunction against the development and sale of certain products or services. in certain of our businesses, we rely on third-party intellectual property licenses, and we cannot ensure that these licenses will be available to us in the future on terms favorable to us or at all. third parties may infringe our intellectual property rights, and we may suffer competitive injury or expend significant resources enforcing our intellectual property rights. our success depends in part on our proprietary technology, including technology we obtained through acquisitions. we rely on various intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements, to establish our proprietary rights. if we do not enforce our intellectual property rights successfully, our competitive position may suffer, which could harm our operating results. our pending patent, copyright and trademark registration applications may not be allowed or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents, copyrights or trademarks. in addition, our patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not provide us with a significant competitive advantage. in preparation for the separation and distribution, we have applied for trademarks related to our new global brand name in various jurisdictions worldwide. any successful opposition to our applications in material jurisdictions could impose material costs on us or make it more difficult to protect our brand. different jurisdictions vary widely in the level of protection and priority they give to trademark and other intellectual property rights. we may be required to spend significant resources monitoring our intellectual property rights, and we may or may not be able to detect infringement of such rights by third parties. our competitive position may be harmed if we cannot detect infringement and enforce our intellectual property rights in a timely manner, or at all. in some circumstances, we may choose to not pursue enforcement due to a variety of reasons. in addition, competitors may avoid infringement by designing around our intellectual property rights or by developing non-infringing competing technologies. intellectual property rights and our ability to enforce them may be unavailable or limited in some countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share and could result in lost revenues to the company. furthermore, some of our intellectual property is licensed to others, which allows them to compete with us using that intellectual property. we are or will be subject to ongoing tax examinations of our tax returns by the irs and other tax authorities. an adverse outcome of any such audit or examination by the irs or other tax authority could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are or will be subject to ongoing tax examinations of our tax returns by the irs and other tax authorities in various jurisdictions. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from ongoing tax examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. these assessments can require considerable estimates and judgments. intercompany transactions associated with the sale of inventory, services, intellectual property and cost sharing arrangements are complex and affect our tax liabilities. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and 16 table of contents regulations in multiple jurisdictions. the outcomes of any tax examinations could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. due to the complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters related to operations post-separation may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued. our operations may be adversely impacted by changes in our business mix or changes in the tax legislative landscape. our effective tax rate may be adversely impacted by, among other things, changes in the mix of our earnings among countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation allowance of deferred tax assets, and changes in tax laws. we cannot give any assurance as to what our effective tax rate will be in the future because, among other things, there is uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate. changes in tax laws, such as tax reform in the united states or changes in tax laws resulting from the organization for economic co-operation and development's ( oecd ) multi-jurisdictional plan of action to address base erosion and profit shifting, could impact our effective tax rate. if tax incentives change or cease to be in effect, our income taxes could increase significantly. we benefit from tax incentives extended to our foreign subsidiaries to encourage investment or employment. several jurisdictions have granted or are anticipated to grant us tax incentives that require renewal at various times in the future, the most significant being singapore. we do not expect incentives granted by other jurisdictions to have a material impact on our financial statements. the singapore tax incentive requires that specific conditions be satisfied, which include achieving thresholds of employment, ownership of certain assets, as well as specific types of investment activities within singapore. we believe that we will satisfy such conditions in the future. our taxes could increase if the incentives are not renewed upon expiration. if we cannot or do not wish to satisfy all or portions of the tax incentive conditions, we may lose the related tax incentive and could be required to refund the benefits that the tax incentives previously provided. as a result, our effective tax rate could be higher than it would have been had we maintained the benefits of the tax incentives. if we suffer a loss to our factories, facilities or distribution system due to a catastrophic event, our operations could be significantly harmed. our factories, facilities and distribution system are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, terrorism or other natural or manmade disasters. in particular, several of our facilities could be subject to a catastrophic loss caused by earthquake or other natural disasters due to their locations. for example, our production facilities, headquarters and laboratories in california and our production facilities in japan are all located in areas with above-average seismic activity. if any of these facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. if such a disruption were to occur, we could breach our agreements, our reputation could be harmed and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. in addition, since we have consolidated our manufacturing facilities, we are more likely to experience an interruption to our operations in the event of a catastrophe in any one location. although we carry insurance for property damage and business interruption, we do not carry insurance or financial reserves for interruptions or potential losses arising from earthquakes or terrorism. also, our third-party insurance coverage will vary from time to time in both type and amount depending on availability, cost and our decision with respect to risk retention. economic conditions and uncertainties in global markets may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain third-party insurance. if our third-party insurance coverage is adversely affected, or to the extent we have elected to self-insure, we may be at a greater risk that our operations will be harmed by a catastrophic loss. if we experience a significant disruption in, or breach in security of, our information technology systems, our business could be adversely affected. we rely on several centralized information technology systems to provide products and services, maintain financial records, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. if we experience a prolonged system disruption in the information technology systems that involve our interactions with customers or suppliers, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. in addition, our information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophes or other unforeseen events. furthermore, security breaches of our information technology systems could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to the company or our employees, partners, customers or suppliers, which could result in significant financial or reputational damage to the company. our business and financial results may be adversely affected by various legal and regulatory proceedings. we are subject to legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims in the normal course of business and could become subject to additional claims in the future, some of which could be material. the outcome of existing proceedings, lawsuits and claims may 17 table of contents differ from our expectations because the outcomes of litigation are often difficult to reliably predict. various factors or developments can lead us to change current estimates of liabilities and related insurance receivables where applicable, or permit us to make such estimates for matters previously not susceptible to reasonable estimates, such as a significant judicial ruling or judgment, a significant settlement, significant regulatory developments or changes in applicable law. a future adverse ruling, settlement or unfavorable development could result in charges that could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. our acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures may result in financial results that are different than expected. in the normal course of business, we may engage in discussions with third parties relating to possible acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures. as a result of such transactions, our financial results may differ from our own or the investment community's expectations in a given fiscal quarter, or over the long term. if market conditions or other factors lead us to change our strategic direction, we may not realize the expected value from such transactions. further, such transactions often have post-closing arrangements, including, but not limited to, post-closing adjustments, transition services, escrows or indemnifications, the financial results of which can be difficult to predict. in addition, acquisitions and strategic alliances may require us to integrate a different company culture, management team and business infrastructure. we may have difficulty developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company in a way that enhances the performance of our businesses or product lines to realize the value from expected synergies. depending on the size and complexity of an acquisition, the successful integration of the entity depends on a variety of factors, including: the retention of key employees and/or customers; the management of facilities and employees in different geographic areas; and the compatibility of our infrastructure, policies and organizations with those of the acquired company. if we do not realize the expected benefits or synergies of such transactions, our combined and consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price could be negatively impacted. in addition, effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable and accurate financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. we are devoting significant resources and time to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. however, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we design, implement and maintain adequate control over our financial processes and reporting in the future, especially in the context of acquisitions of other businesses. any difficulties in the assimilation of acquired businesses into our control system could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock and our access to capital. all of these efforts require varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. we have substantial cash requirements in the united states, although most of our cash is generated outside of the united states. the failure to maintain a level of cash sufficient to address our cash requirements in the united states could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. although the cash generated in the united states from our operations, including any cash and non-permanently invested earnings repatriated to the united states, is expected to cover our normal operating requirements and debt service requirements, a substantial amount of additional cash may be required for special purposes such as the maturity of our current and future debt obligations, any dividends that may be declared, any future stock repurchase programs and any acquisitions. if we encounter a significant need for liquidity domestically that we cannot fulfill through borrowings, equity offerings or other internal or external sources, the transfer of cash into the united states may incur an overall tax rate higher than our tax rates have been in the past and negatively impact after-tax earnings. we have outstanding debt and may incur other debt in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. we currently have outstanding debt as well as availability to borrow under a revolving credit facility. we may borrow additional amounts in the future and use the proceeds from any future borrowing for general corporate purposes, future acquisitions, expansion of our business or repurchases of our outstanding shares of common stock. our incurrence of this debt, and increases in our aggregate levels of debt, may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition by, among other things: requiring a portion of our cash flow from operations to make interest payments on this debt; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; reducing the cash flow available to fund capital expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow our business; and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry. 18 table of contents our current revolving credit facility imposes restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to create liens on our assets and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur indebtedness, and requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. in addition, the indenture governing our senior notes contains covenants that may adversely affect our ability to incur certain liens or engage in certain types of sale and leaseback transactions. if we breach any of the covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness could be declared immediately due and payable. we may need additional financing in the future to meet our capital needs or to make opportunistic acquisitions, and such financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, if at all, and may be dilutive to existing shareholders. we may need to seek additional financing for our general corporate purposes. for example, we may need to increase our investment in r&amp;d activities or need funds to make acquisitions. we may be unable to obtain any desired additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. if adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our expansion, successfully develop or enhance products or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could negatively affect our business. if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, our shareholders will experience dilution of their ownership interest. if we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to further limitations on our operations and ability to pay dividends due to restrictive covenants. adverse conditions in the global banking industry and credit markets may adversely impact the value of our cash investments or impair our liquidity. our cash and cash equivalents are invested or held in a mix of money market funds, time deposit accounts and bank demand deposit accounts. disruptions in the financial markets may, in some cases, result in an inability to access assets such as money market funds that traditionally have been viewed as highly liquid. any failure of our counterparty financial institutions or funds in which we have invested may adversely impact our cash and cash equivalent positions and, in turn, our results and financial condition. future investment returns on pension assets may be lower than expected or interest rates may decline, requiring us to make significant additional cash contributions to our future plans. we sponsor several defined benefit pension plans that cover many of our salaried and hourly employees. the federal pension protection act of 2006 requires that certain capitalization levels be maintained in each of the u.s. plans, and there may be similar funding requirements in the plans outside the united states. because it is unknown what the investment return on pension assets will be in future years or what interest rates may be at any point in time, no assurances can be given that applicable law will not require us to make future material plan contributions. any such contributions could adversely affect our financial condition. risks related to the separation our historical financial information is not necessarily representative of the results that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly-traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. the historical information about the company prior to fiscal year 2015 refers to our business as operated by and integrated with agilent. our historical financial information prior to fiscal year 2015 included in this form 10-k is derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of agilent. accordingly, the historical financial information does not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly-traded company during the periods presented or those that we will achieve in the future primarily as a result of the factors described below: prior to the separation, our business was operated by agilent as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent company. agilent or one of its affiliates performed various corporate functions for us such as legal, treasury, accounting, auditing, human resources, corporate affairs and finance. our historical financial results reflect allocations of corporate expenses from agilent for such functions and are likely to be less than the expenses we would have incurred had we operated as a separate publicly-traded company. following the separation, we are responsible for the cost related to such functions previously performed by agilent; generally, our working capital requirements and capital for our general corporate purposes, including acquisitions and capital expenditures, have historically been satisfied as part of the corporate-wide cash management policies of agilent. following the separation, we may need to obtain additional financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, strategic relationships or other arrangements; and our historical financial information does not reflect the debt or the associated interest expense that we have incurred as part of the separation and distribution. other significant changes may occur in our cost structure, management, financing and business operations as a result of operating as a company separate from agilent. for additional information about the past financial performance of our business 19 table of contents and the basis of presentation of the historical combined and consolidated financial statements, see "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and the financial statements and accompanying notes included elsewhere in this form 10-k. potential indemnification liabilities to agilent pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the separation and distribution agreement provides for, among other things, indemnification obligations designed to make us financially responsible for any liabilities associated with assets used by our business; our failure to pay, perform or otherwise promptly discharge any such liabilities or contracts, in accordance with their respective terms, whether prior to, at or after the distribution; any guarantee, indemnification obligation, surety bond or other credit support agreement, arrangement, commitment or understanding by agilent for our benefit, unless they are liabilities related to assets used in the agilent business; any breach by us of the separation agreement or any of the ancillary agreements or any action by us in contravention of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws; and any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, with respect to all information contained in the registration statement or any other disclosure document that describes the separation or the distribution or the company and its subsidiaries or primarily relates to the transactions contemplated by the separation and distribution agreement, subject to certain exceptions. if we are required to indemnify agilent under the circumstances set forth in the separation and distribution agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. in connection with our separation from agilent, agilent will indemnify us for certain liabilities. however, there can be no assurance that the indemnity will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that agilent's ability to satisfy its indemnification obligation will not be impaired in the future. pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement and certain other agreements with agilent, agilent agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. however, third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that agilent has agreed to retain, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from agilent will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that agilent will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. in addition, agilent's insurers may attempt to deny us coverage for liabilities associated with certain occurrences of indemnified liabilities prior to the separation. moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from agilent or such insurance providers any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. we will be subject to continuing contingent liabilities of agilent following the separation. after the separation, there are several significant areas where the liabilities of agilent may become our obligations. for example, under the internal revenue code and the related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of the agilent u.s. consolidated group during a taxable period or portion of a taxable period ending on or before the effective time of the distribution is severally liable for the u.s. federal income tax liability of the entire agilent u.s. consolidated group for that taxable period. consequently, if agilent is unable to pay the consolidated u.s. federal income tax liability for a prior period, we could be required to pay the entire amount of such tax, which could be substantial and in excess of the amount allocated to it under the tax matters agreement between us and agilent. other provisions of federal law establish similar liability for other matters, including laws governing tax-qualified pension plans, as well as other contingent liabilities. there could be significant liability if the distribution is determined to be a taxable transaction. a condition to the distribution is that agilent received an opinion of baker &amp; mckenzie llp, tax counsel to agilent, regarding the qualification of the separation and the distribution as a reorganization within the meaning of sections 355(a) and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code. the opinion relies on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from agilent and keysight, including those regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters. if any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not satisfied, agilent and its shareholders may not be able to rely on the opinion, and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. notwithstanding the opinion of tax counsel, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion. if the distribution were determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, agilent and its shareholders that are subject to u.s. federal income tax could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. for example, if the distribution failed to qualify for tax-free treatment, agilent would for u.s. federal income tax purposes be treated as if it had sold the keysight common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and agilent's shareholders, who are subject to u.s. federal income tax, would be treated as receiving a taxable distribution in an amount equal to the fair market value of the keysight common stock received in the distribution. in addition, if the separation and distribution failed to qualify for tax-free treatment under federal, 20 table of contents state and local tax law and/or foreign tax law, agilent (and, under the tax matters agreement described below, keysight) could incur significant tax liabilities under u.s. federal, state, local and/or foreign tax law. under the tax matters agreement between agilent and keysight, we are generally required to indemnify agilent against taxes incurred by agilent that arise as a result of our taking or failing to take, as the case may be, certain actions that result in the distribution failing to meet the requirements of a tax-free distribution under section 355 of the code. under the tax matters agreement between agilent and keysight, we may also be required to indemnify agilent for other contingent tax liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our financial position. we may not be able to engage in certain corporate transactions for a two-year period after the separation. to preserve the tax-free treatment for u.s. federal income tax purposes to agilent of the separation and distribution, under the tax matters agreement that we have entered into with agilent, we are restricted from taking any action that prevents the separation and distribution from being tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes. under the tax matters agreement, for the two-year period following the distribution, we are prohibited, except in certain circumstances, from entering into acquisition, merger, liquidation, sale and stock redemption transactions with respect to our stock if such transactions, taken as a whole, would result in one or more persons acquiring forty percent (40%) or more of the outstanding keysight stock. these restrictions may limit our ability to pursue certain strategic transactions or other transactions that we may believe to be in the best interests of our shareholders or that might increase the value of our business. in addition, under the tax matters agreement, we may be required to indemnify agilent against any such tax liabilities as a result of the acquisition of keysight's stock or assets, even if we did not participate in or otherwise facilitate the acquisition. certain of our executive officers and directors may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their equity interest in agilent. the ownership by our executive officers and some of our directors of common shares of agilent may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest. because of their current or former positions with agilent, certain of our executive officers and directors own agilent common shares. the individual holdings of common shares may be significant for some of these persons compared to these persons' total assets. even though our board of directors consist of a majority of directors who are independent, and our executive officers ceased to be employees of agilent upon the separation, continuing ownership of agilent common shares by our executive officers and some of our directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest if keysight and agilent pursue the same corporate opportunities or face decisions that could have different implications for keysight and agilent. the one-time and ongoing costs of the spin-off may be greater than we expected. we have and will continue to incur costs in connection with our transition to being a stand-alone public company that relate primarily to accounting, tax, legal and other professional costs; financing costs in connection with obtaining our financing as a stand-alone company; compensation, such as modifications to certain incentive awards as a result of spin-off; recruiting and relocation costs associated with hiring our senior management personnel; and costs to separate assets and information systems. these costs, whether incurred before or after the spin-off, may be greater than anticipated and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks related to our common stock our share price may fluctuate significantly. our common stock is listed on nyse under the ticker symbol keys. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to factors related to our business; success or failure of our business strategy; our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; our ability to obtain third-party financing as needed; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock; changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; the operating and share price performance of other comparable companies; investor perception of our company; 21 table of contents natural or other disasters that investors believe may affect us; overall market fluctuations; results from any material litigation or government investigations; changes in laws or regulations affecting our business; and general economic conditions and other external factors. stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. in addition, when the market price of a company's shares drops significantly, shareholders often institute securities class action lawsuits against the company. a lawsuit against us could cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of management and other resources. we cannot guarantee the payment of dividends on our common stock, or the timing or amount of any such dividends. we do not currently expect to pay dividends on our common stock. the payment of any dividends in the future, and the timing and amount thereof, to our shareholders will fall within the discretion of our board of directors. the board's decisions regarding the payment of dividends will depend on many factors, such as our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, debt service obligations, restrictive covenants in our debt, industry practice, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors that the board deems relevant. we cannot guarantee that we will pay a dividend in the future or continue to pay any dividends if we commence paying dividends. certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and of delaware law, may prevent or delay an acquisition of the company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain, and delaware law contains, provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. these provisions include, among others: the inability of our shareholders to call a special meeting; the inability of our shareholders to act without a meeting of shareholders; rules regarding how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings; the right of our board to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval; the division of our board of directors into three classes of directors, with each class serving a staggered three-year term, and this classified board provision could have the effect of making the replacement of incumbent directors more time consuming and difficult; a provision that shareholders may only remove directors with cause; the ability of our directors, and not shareholders, to fill vacancies on our board of directors; and the requirement that the affirmative vote of shareholders holding at least 80% of our voting stock is required to amend certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation (relating to the number, term and removal of our directors, the filling of our board vacancies, the advance notice to be given for nominations for elections of directors, the calling of special meetings of shareholders, shareholder action by written consent, the ability of the board of directors to amend the bylaws, elimination of liability of directors to the extent permitted by delaware law, exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders and amendments of the certificate of incorporation) and certain provisions in our amended and restated bylaws (relating to the calling of special meetings of shareholders, the business that may be conducted or considered at annual or special meetings, the advance notice of shareholder business and nominations, shareholder action by written consent, the number, tenure, qualifications and removal of our directors, the filling of our board vacancies, director and officer indemnification and amendments of the bylaws). in addition, because we have not chosen to be exempt from section 203 of the delaware general corporation law (the "dgcl"), this provision could also delay or prevent a change of control that some shareholders may favor. section 203 provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with a person that acquires, more than 15% of the outstanding voting stock of a delaware corporation (an "interested stockholder") shall not engage in any business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which the person became an interested stockholder, unless (i) prior to such time, the board of directors of such corporation approved either the business combination or the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder; (ii) upon consummation of the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of the voting stock of such corporation at the time the transaction commenced (excluding for purposes of 22 table of contents determining the voting stock outstanding (but not the outstanding voting stock owned by the interested stockholder) the voting stock owned by directors who are also officers or held in employee benefit plans in which the employees do not have a confidential right to tender or vote stock held by the plan); or (iii) on or subsequent to such time the business combination is approved by the board of directors of such corporation and authorized at a meeting of shareholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock of such corporation not owned by the interested stockholder. we believe these provisions will protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. these provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. however, these provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of the company and our shareholders. these provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. in addition, an acquisition or further issuance of our stock could trigger the application of section 355(e) of the code. under the tax matters agreement, we would be required to indemnify agilent for the resulting tax, and this indemnity obligation might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that some shareholders may consider favorable. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates that the state courts in the state of delaware or, if no state court located within the state of delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the district of delaware, as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders, which could discourage lawsuits against the company and our directors and officers. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provide that unless the board of directors otherwise determines, the state courts in the state of delaware or, if no state court located within the state of delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the district of delaware, will be the sole and exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors or officers to the company or our shareholders, any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors or officers arising pursuant to any provision of the dgcl or keysight's amended and restated certificate of incorporation or bylaws, or any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors or officers governed by the internal affairs doctrine. this exclusive forum provision may limit the ability of our shareholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum that such shareholders find favorable for disputes with us or our directors or officers, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors and officers. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk at various times, we use derivative financial instruments to limit exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. because derivative instruments are used solely as hedges and not for speculative trading purposes, fluctuations in the market values of such derivative instruments are generally offset by reciprocal changes in the underlying economic exposures that the instruments are intended to hedge. for further discussion of derivative financial instruments, refer to note 14, "derivatives." currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries. we hedge future cash flows denominated in currencies other than the functional currency using sales and expense forecasts up to twelve months in advance. our exposure to exchange rate risks is managed on an enterprise-wide basis. this strategy utilizes derivative financial instruments, including option and forward contracts, to hedge certain foreign currency exposures with the intent of offsetting gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures with gains and losses on the derivative contracts hedging them. we do not currently and do not intend to utilize derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. our operations generate non-functional currency cash flows such as revenues, third-party vendor payments and inter-company payments. in anticipation of these foreign currency cash flows and in view of the volatility of the currency market, we enter into such foreign exchange contracts as described above to substantially mitigate our currency risk. approximately 75 percent of our revenues in 2015, 74 percent of our revenues in 2014 and 75 percent of our revenues in 2013 were generated in u.s. dollars. we performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10 percent adverse movement in foreign exchange rates to the hedging contracts and the underlying exposures described above. as of october 31, 2015 and 2014, the analysis indicated that these hypothetical market movements would not have a material effect on our combined and consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. interest rate risk as of october 31, 2015, we had $1,100 million in principal amount of fixed-rate senior notes outstanding. the carrying amount of the senior notes was $1,099 million, and the related fair value based on quoted prices was $1,091 million. a change in interest rates on long-term debt impacts the fair value of the company's fixed-rate long-term debt but not the company's earnings or cash flow because the interest on such debt is fixed. generally, the fair market value of fixed-rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. as of october 31, 2015, a hypothetical 10 percent increase in interest rates would have decreased the fair value of the company's fixed-rate long-term debt by approximately $26 million. however, since the company currently has no plans to repurchase its outstanding fixed-rate instruments before their maturity nor do the investors in our fixed-rate debt obligations have the right to demand we pay off these obligations prior to maturity, the impact of market interest rate fluctuations on the company's fixed-rate long-term debt does not affect the company's results of operations or stockholders' equity. 41 table of contentsrisk factors risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect future results risks related to our business depressed and uncertain general economic conditions may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our business is sensitive to negative changes in general economic conditions, both inside and outside the united states. the continued economic downturn may adversely impact our business, resulting in: reduced demand for our products, delays in the shipment of orders or increases in order cancellations; increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories; increased price pressure for our products and services; and greater risk of impairment to the value, and a detriment to the liquidity, of our future investment portfolio. in addition, macroeconomic developments, such as the recent downturn in europe, the economic slowdown in asia and the results of the recent u.s. and other national elections, economic uncertainties caused by the result of the united kingdom's referendum advising for its exit from the european union could negatively affect our ability to conduct business in those geographies. financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers and customers, including distributors, could result in product delays and inventory issues. risks to accounts receivable could result in delays in collection and greater bad debt expense. our operating results and financial condition could be harmed if the markets into which we sell our products decline or do not grow as anticipated. visibility into our markets is limited. our quarterly sales and operating results are highly dependent on the volume and timing of technology-related spending and orders received during the fiscal quarter, which are difficult to forecast and may be cancelled by our customers. in addition, our revenues and earnings forecasts for future fiscal quarters are often based on the expected seasonality or cyclicality of our markets. however, the markets we serve do not always experience the seasonality or cyclicality that we expect. any decline in our customers' markets would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products and services. the broader semiconductor market is one of the drivers for our business, and therefore, a decrease in the semiconductor market could harm our business. also, if our customers' markets decline, we may not be able to collect on outstanding amounts due to us. such declines could harm our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price, and could limit our profitability. also, in such an environment, pricing pressures could intensify. since a significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed in nature due to sales, r&amp;d and manufacturing costs, if we were unable to respond quickly enough, these pricing pressures could further reduce our operating margins. if we do not introduce successful new products and services in a timely manner to address increased competition, rapid technological changes and changing industry standards, our products and services will become obsolete, and our operating results will suffer. we generally sell our products in industries that are characterized by increased competition through frequent new product and service introductions, rapid technological changes and changing industry standards. in addition, many of the markets in which we operate are seasonal and cyclical. without the timely introduction of new products, services and enhancements, our products and services will become technologically obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. the success of new products and services will depend on several factors, including our ability to: properly identify customer needs; innovate and develop new technologies, services and applications; successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner; manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and on time; differentiate our offerings from our competitors' offerings; price our products competitively; anticipate our competitors' development of new products, services or technological innovations; and control product quality in our manufacturing process. 15 table of contents dependence on contract manufacturing and outsourcing other portions of our supply chain may adversely affect our ability to bring products to market and damage our reputation. dependence on outsourced information technology and other administrative functions may impair our ability to operate effectively. as part of our efforts to streamline operations and to cut costs, we outsource aspects of our manufacturing processes and other functions and continue to evaluate additional outsourcing. if our contract manufacturers or other outsourcers fail to perform their obligations in a timely manner or at satisfactory quality levels, our ability to bring products to market and our reputation could suffer. for example, during a market upturn, our contract manufacturers may be unable to meet our demand requirements, which may preclude us from fulfilling our customers' orders on a timely basis. the ability of these manufacturers to perform is largely outside of our control. additionally, changing or replacing our contract manufacturers or other outsourcees could cause disruptions or delays. in addition, we outsource significant portions of our information technology ("it") and other administrative functions. since it is critical to our operations, any failure of our it providers to perform could impair our ability to operate effectively. in addition to the risks outlined above, problems with manufacturing or it outsourcing could result in lower revenues and unrealized efficiencies, and could impact our results of operations and stock price. much of our outsourcing takes place in developing countries and, as a result, may be subject to geopolitical uncertainty. failure to adjust our purchases due to changing market conditions or failure to estimate our customers' demand could adversely affect our income. our income could be harmed if we are unable to adjust our purchases to market fluctuations, including those caused by the seasonal or cyclical nature of the markets in which we operate. the sale of our products and services are dependent, to a large degree, on customers whose industries are subject to seasonal or cyclical trends in the demand for their products. for example, the consumer electronics market is particularly volatile, making demand difficult to anticipate. during a market upturn, we may not be able to purchase sufficient supplies or components to meet increasing product demand, which could materially affect our results. in the past, we have seen a shortage of parts for some of our products. in addition, some of the parts that require custom design are not readily available from alternate suppliers due to their unique design or the length of time necessary for design work. should a supplier cease manufacturing such a component, we would be forced to reengineer our product. in addition to discontinuing parts, suppliers may also extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. in order to secure components for the production of products, we may continue to enter into non-cancellable purchase commitments with vendors, or at times make advance payments to suppliers, which could impact our ability to adjust our inventory to declining market demands. prior commitments of this type have resulted in an excess of parts when demand for electronic products has decreased. if demand for our products is less than we expect, we may experience additional excess and obsolete inventories and be forced to incur additional charges. our operating results may suffer if our manufacturing capacity does not match the demand for our products. because we cannot immediately adapt our production capacity and related cost structures to rapidly changing market conditions, when demand does not meet our expectations, our manufacturing capacity will likely exceed our production requirements. if, during a general market upturn or an upturn in our business, we cannot increase our manufacturing capacity to meet product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner, which could lead to order cancellations, contract breaches or indemnification obligations. this inability could materially and adversely limit our ability to improve our income, margin and operating results. by contrast, if, during an economic downturn, we had excess manufacturing capacity, then our fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity would adversely affect our income, margins and operating results. industry consolidation and consolidation among our customer base may lead to increased competition and may harm our operating results. there is potential for industry consolidation in our markets. as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry, companies could be acquired or may be unable to continue operations. companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us. we believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors and could lead to more variability in our operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. furthermore, particularly in the communications market, rapid consolidation would lead to fewer customers, with the effect that loss of a major customer could have a material impact on results not anticipated in a customer marketplace composed of more numerous participants. additionally, if there is consolidation among our customer base, our customers may be able to command increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could adversely affect our profitability. in addition, if, as a result of increased leverage, customer pressures require us to reduce our pricing such that our gross margins are diminished, we could decide not to sell our products under such less favorable terms, which would decrease our revenue. consolidation among our customer base may also lead to reduced demand for our products, replacement of our products by the combined entity with those of our competitors and cancellations of orders, each of which could harm our operating results. 16 table of contents economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our results of operations. because we sell our products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. we anticipate that revenue from international operations will continue to represent a majority of our total revenue. however, there can be no assurances that our international sales will continue at existing levels or grow in accordance with our effort to increase foreign market penetration. in addition, many of our employees, contract manufacturers, suppliers, job functions and manufacturing facilities are located outside the united states. accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: interruption to transportation flows for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in a specific country's or region's political, economic or other conditions; trade protection measures, sanctions, and import or export licensing requirements or restrictions; negative consequences from changes in tax laws; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; differing labor regulations; differing protection of intellectual property; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and volatile political environments or geopolitical turmoil, including regional conflicts, terrorism, and war. we centralize most of our accounting processes at two locations: india and malaysia. these processes include general accounting, inventory cost accounting, accounts payable and accounts receivables functions. if conditions change in those countries, it may adversely affect operations, including impairing our ability to pay our suppliers. our results of operations, as well as our liquidity, may be adversely affected and possible delays may occur in reporting financial results. additionally, we must comply with complex foreign and u.s. laws and regulations, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, and anti-competition regulations. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, restrictions on our business conduct and on our ability to offer our products in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our brand, ability to attract and retain employees, international operations, business and operating results. although we actively maintain policies and procedures designed to ensure ongoing compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate these policies and procedures. in addition, although a substantial amount of our products are priced and paid for in u.s. dollars, many of our products are priced in local currencies and a significant amount of certain types of expenses, such as payroll, utilities, tax and marketing expenses, are paid in local currencies. our hedging programs are designed to reduce, but not entirely eliminate, within any given 12-month period, the impact of currency exchange rate movements, including those caused by currency controls, which could impact our business, operating results and financial condition by resulting in lower revenue or increased expenses. however, for expenses beyond a 12-month period, our hedging strategy will not mitigate our exchange rate risk. in addition, our currency hedging programs involve third-party financial institutions as counterparties. the weakening or failure of these counterparties may adversely affect our hedging programs and our financial condition through, among other things, a reduction in the number of available counterparties, increasingly unfavorable terms or the failure of counterparties to perform under hedging contracts. key customers or large orders may expose us to additional business and legal risks that could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition . certain key customers have substantial purchasing power and leverage in negotiating contractual arrangements with us. these customers may demand contract terms that differ considerably from our standard terms and conditions. large orders may also include severe contractual liabilities for us if we fail to provide the quantity and quality of product at the required delivery times. while we attempt to contractually limit our potential liability under such contracts, we may have to agree to some or all of these types of provisions to secure these orders and to continue to grow our business. such actions expose us to significant additional risks, which could result in a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. our business will suffer if we are not able to retain and hire key personnel. our future success depends partly on the continued service of our key research, engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing, executive and administrative personnel. if we fail to retain and hire a sufficient number of these personnel, we may not be able to maintain or expand our business. the markets in which we operate are dynamic, and we may need to respond with reorganizations, workforce reductions and site closures from time to time. we believe our pay levels are competitive within the regions that we operate. however, there is also intense competition for certain highly technical specialties in geographic areas in which we operate, and it may become more difficult to retain key employees. 17 table of contents any inability to complete acquisitions on acceptable terms could negatively impact our growth rate and financial performance. our ability to grow revenues, earnings and cash flow depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate businesses at appropriate prices and realize anticipated synergies and business performance. appropriate targets for acquisition are difficult to identify and complete for a variety of reasons, including but not limited to, limited due diligence, high valuations, business and intellectual property evaluations, other interested parties, negotiations of the definitive documentation, satisfaction of closing conditions, the need to obtain antitrust or other regulatory approvals on acceptable terms, and availability of funding. the inability to close appropriate acquisitions on acceptable terms could adversely impact our growth rate, revenue, and financial performance. our acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures may result in financial results that are different than expected. in the normal course of business, we may engage in discussions with third parties relating to possible acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures. as a result of such transactions, our financial results may differ from our own or the investment community's expectations in a given fiscal quarter, or over the long term. if market conditions or other factors lead us to change our strategic direction, we may not realize the expected value from such transactions. further, such transactions often have post-closing arrangements, including, but not limited to, post-closing adjustments, transition services, escrows or indemnifications, the financial results of which can be difficult to predict. in addition, acquisitions and strategic alliances may require us to integrate a different company culture, management team and business infrastructure. we may have difficulty developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company in a way that enhances the performance of our businesses or product lines to realize the value from expected synergies. depending on the size and complexity of an acquisition, the successful integration of the entity depends on a variety of factors, including: the retention of key employees and/or customers; the management of facilities and employees in different geographic areas; and the compatibility of our infrastructure, policies and organizations with those of the acquired company. if we do not realize the expected benefits or synergies of such transactions, our combined and consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price could be negatively impacted. in addition, effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable and accurate financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. we are devoting significant resources and time to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. however, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we design, implement and maintain adequate control over our financial processes and reporting in the future, especially in the context of acquisitions of other businesses. any difficulties in the assimilation of acquired businesses into our control system could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock and our access to capital. all of these efforts require varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. environmental contamination from past operations could subject us to unreimbursed costs and could harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the properties involved, and environmental contamination caused by ongoing operations could subject us to substantial liabilities in the future. some of our properties are undergoing remediation by hp inc. ("hp") for subsurface contaminations that were known at the time of agilent's separation from hp in 1999. in connection with agilent's separation from hp, hp and agilent entered into an agreement pursuant to which hp agreed to retain the liability for this subsurface contamination, perform the required remediation and indemnify agilent with respect to claims arising out of that contamination. agilent has assigned its rights and obligations under this agreement to keysight in respect of facilities transferred to us in the separation. as a result, hp will have access to a limited number of our properties to perform remediation. although hp agreed to minimize interference with on-site operations at such properties, remediation activities and subsurface contamination may require us to incur unreimbursed costs and could harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the properties. in connection with the separation, agilent will indemnify us directly for any liabilities related thereto. we cannot be sure that hp will continue to fulfill its remediation obligations or that agilent will continue to fulfill its indemnification obligations. in connection with the separation from agilent, agilent also agreed to indemnify us for any liability associated with contamination from past operations at all properties transferred from agilent to keysight. we cannot be sure that agilent will fulfill its indemnification obligations. our current manufacturing processes involve the use of substances regulated under various international, federal, state and local laws governing the environment. as a result, we may become subject to liabilities for environmental contamination, and these liabilities may be substantial. although our policy is to apply strict standards for environmental protection at our sites inside 18 table of contents and outside the united states, even if the sites outside the united states are not subject to regulations imposed by foreign governments, we may not be aware of all conditions that could subject us to liability. we and our customers are subject to various governmental regulations, compliance with which may cause us to incur significant expenses, and if we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with certain regulations, we may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, and we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties. we and our customers are subject to various significant international, federal, state and local regulations, including, but not limited to, health and safety, packaging, product content, labor and import/export regulations. these regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. we may be required to incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations or to remedy violations of these regulations. any failure by us to comply with applicable government regulations could also result in cessation of our operations or portions of our operations, product recalls or impositions of fines and restrictions on our ability to carry on or expand our operations. if demand for our products is adversely affected or our costs increase, our business would suffer. our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, like the international standards organization, as well as regulation by other agencies such as the u.s. federal communications commission. we also must comply with work safety rules. if we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our businesses could be harmed. third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products or services. from time to time, third parties may claim that one or more of our products or services infringe their intellectual property rights. we analyze and take action in response to such claims on a case-by-case basis. any dispute or litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming due to the complexity of our technology and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation and could divert our management and key personnel from business operations. a claim of intellectual property infringement could cause us to enter into a costly or restrictive license agreement (which may not be available under acceptable terms, or at all), require us to redesign certain of our products (which would be costly and time-consuming) and/or subject us to significant damages or an injunction against the development and sale of certain products or services. in certain of our businesses, we rely on third-party intellectual property licenses, and we cannot ensure that these licenses will be available to us in the future on terms favorable to us or at all. third parties may infringe our intellectual property rights, and we may suffer competitive injury or expend significant resources enforcing our intellectual property rights. our success depends in part on our proprietary technology, including technology we obtained through acquisitions. we rely on various intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements, to establish our proprietary rights. if we do not enforce our intellectual property rights successfully, our competitive position may suffer, which could harm our operating results. our pending patent, copyright and trademark registration applications may not be allowed or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents, copyrights or trademarks. in addition, our patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not provide us with a significant competitive advantage. in preparation for the separation and distribution, we have applied for trademarks related to our new global brand name in various jurisdictions worldwide. any successful opposition to our applications in material jurisdictions could impose material costs on us or make it more difficult to protect our brand. different jurisdictions vary widely in the level of protection and priority they give to trademark and other intellectual property rights. we may be required to spend significant resources monitoring our intellectual property rights, and we may or may not be able to detect infringement of such rights by third parties. our competitive position may be harmed if we cannot detect infringement and enforce our intellectual property rights in a timely manner, or at all. in some circumstances, we may choose to not pursue enforcement due to a variety of reasons. in addition, competitors may avoid infringement by designing around our intellectual property rights or by developing non-infringing competing technologies. intellectual property rights and our ability to enforce them may be unavailable or limited in some countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share and could result in lost revenues to the company. furthermore, some of our intellectual property is licensed to others, which allows them to compete with us using that intellectual property. we are or will be subject to ongoing tax examinations of our tax returns by the irs and other tax authorities. an adverse outcome of any such audit or examination by the irs or other tax authority could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are or will be subject to ongoing tax examinations of our tax returns by the irs and other tax authorities in various jurisdictions. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from ongoing tax examinations to determine the 19 table of contents adequacy of our provision for income taxes. these assessments can require considerable estimates and judgments. intercompany transactions associated with the sale of inventory, services, intellectual property and cost sharing arrangements are complex and affect our tax liabilities. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in multiple jurisdictions. the outcomes of any tax examinations could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. due to the complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters related to operations post-separation may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued. our operations may be adversely impacted by changes in our business mix or changes in the tax legislative landscape. our effective tax rate may be adversely impacted by, among other things, changes in the mix of our earnings among countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation allowance of deferred tax assets, and changes in tax laws. we cannot give any assurance as to what our effective tax rate will be in the future because, among other things, there is uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate. changes in tax laws, such as tax reform in the united states or changes in tax laws resulting from the organization for economic co-operation and development's ( oecd ) multi-jurisdictional plan of action to address base erosion and profit shifting, could impact our effective tax rate. if tax incentives change or cease to be in effect, our income taxes could increase significantly. we benefit from tax incentives extended to our foreign subsidiaries to encourage investment or employment. several jurisdictions have granted us tax incentives that require renewal at various times in the future, the most significant being singapore. we do not expect incentives granted by other jurisdictions to have a material impact on our financial statements. the singapore tax incentive requires that specific conditions be satisfied, which include achieving thresholds of employment, ownership of certain assets, as well as specific types of investment activities within singapore. we believe that we will satisfy such conditions in the future. the singapore tax incentive is due for renewal in fiscal 2024. our taxes could increase if the incentives are not renewed upon expiration. if we cannot or do not wish to satisfy all or portions of the tax incentive conditions, we may lose the related tax incentive and could be required to refund the benefits that the tax incentives previously provided. as a result, our effective tax rate could be higher than it would have been had we maintained the benefits of the tax incentives. if we suffer a loss to our factories, facilities or distribution system due to a catastrophic event, our operations could be significantly harmed. our factories, facilities and distribution system are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, terrorism or other natural or manmade disasters. in particular, several of our facilities could be subject to a catastrophic loss caused by earthquake or other natural disasters due to their locations. for example, our production facilities, headquarters and laboratories in california and our production facilities in japan are all located in areas with above-average seismic activity. if any of these facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. if such a disruption were to occur, we could breach our agreements, our reputation could be harmed and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. in addition, since we have consolidated our manufacturing facilities, we are more likely to experience an interruption to our operations in the event of a catastrophe in any one location. although we carry insurance for property damage and business interruption, we do not carry insurance or financial reserves for interruptions or potential losses arising from earthquakes or terrorism. also, our third-party insurance coverage will vary from time to time in both type and amount depending on availability, cost and our decision with respect to risk retention. economic conditions and uncertainties in global markets may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain third-party insurance. if our third-party insurance coverage is adversely affected, or to the extent we have elected to self-insure, we may be at a greater risk that our operations will be harmed by a catastrophic loss. if we experience a significant disruption in, or breach in security of, our information technology systems, our business could be adversely affected. we rely on several centralized information technology systems to provide products and services, maintain financial records, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. if we experience a prolonged system disruption in the information technology systems that involve our interactions with customers or suppliers, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. in addition, our information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophes or other unforeseen events. furthermore, security breaches of our information technology systems could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to the company or our employees, partners, customers or suppliers, which could result in significant financial or reputational damage to the company. 20 table of contents man-made problems such as cybersecurity attacks, computer viruses or terrorism may disrupt our operations and harm our business, reputation and operating results despite our implementation of network security measures, our network may be vulnerable to cybersecurity attacks, computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions. cybersecurity attacks, in particular, are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. our daily business operations require us to retain sensitive data such as intellectual property, proprietary business information and data related to customers, suppliers and business partners within our networking infrastructure. the ongoing maintenance and security of this information is pertinent to the success of our business operations and our strategic goals, and organizations like keysight are susceptible to multiple variations of attacks on our networks on a daily basis. our networking infrastructure and related assets may be subject to unauthorized access by hackers, employee errors, or other unforeseen activities. such issues could result in the disruption of business processes, network degradation and system downtime, along with the potential that a third party will exploit our critical assets such as intellectual property, proprietary business information and data related to our customers, suppliers and business partners. to the extent that such disruptions occur, they may cause delays in the manufacture or shipment of our products and the cancellation of customer orders and, as a result, our business operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected resulting in a possible loss of business or brand reputation. in addition, the effects of war or acts of terrorism could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. the continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruption to the economy and create further uncertainties in the economy. energy shortages, such as gas or electricity shortages, could have similar negative impacts. to the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result in delays or cancellations of customer orders or the manufacture or shipment of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. our business and financial results may be adversely affected by various legal and regulatory proceedings. we are subject to legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims in the normal course of business and could become subject to additional claims in the future, some of which could be material. the outcome of existing proceedings, lawsuits and claims may differ from our expectations because the outcomes of litigation are often difficult to reliably predict. various factors or developments can lead us to change current estimates of liabilities and related insurance receivables where applicable, or permit us to make such estimates for matters previously not susceptible to reasonable estimates, such as a significant judicial ruling or judgment, a significant settlement, significant regulatory developments or changes in applicable law. a future adverse ruling, settlement or unfavorable development could result in charges that could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. we have substantial cash requirements in the united states, although most of our cash is generated outside of the united states. the failure to maintain a level of cash sufficient to address our cash requirements in the united states could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. although the cash generated in the united states from our operations, including any cash and non-permanently invested earnings repatriated to the united states, is expected to cover our normal operating requirements and debt service requirements, a substantial amount of additional cash may be required for special purposes such as the maturity of our current and future debt obligations, any dividends that may be declared, any future stock repurchase programs and any acquisitions. if we encounter a significant need for liquidity domestically that we cannot fulfill through borrowings, equity offerings or other internal or external sources, the transfer of cash into the united states may incur an overall tax rate higher than our tax rates have been in the past and negatively impact after-tax earnings. we have outstanding debt and may incur other debt in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. we currently have outstanding debt as well as availability to borrow under a revolving credit facility. we may borrow additional amounts in the future and use the proceeds from any future borrowing for general corporate purposes, future acquisitions, expansion of our business or repurchases of our outstanding shares of common stock. our incurrence of this debt, and increases in our aggregate levels of debt, may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition by, among other things: requiring a portion of our cash flow from operations to make interest payments on this debt; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; reducing the cash flow available to fund capital expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow our business; and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry. 21 table of contents our current revolving credit facility imposes restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to create liens on our assets and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur indebtedness, and requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. in addition, the indenture governing our senior notes contains covenants that may adversely affect our ability to incur certain liens or engage in certain types of sale and leaseback transactions. if we breach any of the covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness could be declared immediately due and payable. we may need additional financing in the future to meet our capital needs or to make opportunistic acquisitions, and such financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, if at all, and may be dilutive to existing shareholders. we may need to seek additional financing for our general corporate purposes. for example, we may need to increase our investment in r&amp;d activities or need funds to make acquisitions. we may be unable to obtain any desired additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. if adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our expansion, successfully develop or enhance products or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could negatively affect our business. if we finance acquisitions by issuing additional convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may experience share dilution, which could affect the market price of our stock. if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, our shareholders will experience dilution of their ownership interest. if we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to further limitations on our operations and ability to pay dividends due to restrictive covenants. adverse conditions in the global banking industry and credit markets may adversely impact the value of our cash investments or impair our liquidity. our cash and cash equivalents are invested or held in a mix of money market funds, time deposit accounts and bank demand deposit accounts. disruptions in the financial markets may, in some cases, result in an inability to access assets such as money market funds that traditionally have been viewed as highly liquid. any failure of our counterparty financial institutions or funds in which we have invested may adversely impact our cash and cash equivalent positions and, in turn, our results and financial condition. future investment returns on pension assets may be lower than expected or interest rates may decline, requiring us to make significant additional cash contributions to our future plans. we sponsor several defined benefit pension plans that cover many of our salaried and hourly employees. the federal pension protection act of 2006 requires that certain capitalization levels be maintained in each of the u.s. plans, and there may be similar funding requirements in the plans outside the united states. because it is unknown what the investment return on and the fair value of our pension assets will be in future years or what interest rates and discount rates may be at any point in time, no assurances can be given that applicable law will not require us to make future material plan contributions. any such contributions could adversely affect our financial condition. risks related to the separation our historical financial information is not necessarily representative of the results that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly-traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. the historical information about the company prior to fiscal year 2015 refers to our business as operated by and integrated with agilent. accordingly, the historical financial information does not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly-traded company during the periods presented or those that we will achieve in the future primarily as a result of the factors described below: prior to the separation, our business was operated by agilent as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent company. agilent or one of its affiliates performed various corporate functions for us such as legal, treasury, accounting, auditing, human resources, corporate affairs and finance. our historical financial results reflect allocations of corporate expenses from agilent for such functions and are likely to be less than the expenses we would have incurred had we operated as a separate publicly-traded company. following the separation, we are responsible for the cost related to such functions previously performed by agilent; generally, our working capital requirements and capital for our general corporate purposes, including acquisitions and capital expenditures, have historically been satisfied as part of the corporate-wide cash management policies of agilent. following the separation, we may need to obtain additional financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, strategic relationships or other arrangements; and our historical financial information prior to the separation, does not reflect the debt or the associated interest expense that we have incurred as part of the separation and distribution. 22 table of contents other significant changes may occur in our cost structure, management, financing and business operations as a result of operating as a company separate from agilent. for additional information about the past financial performance of our business and the basis of presentation of the historical combined and consolidated financial statements, see "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and the financial statements and accompanying notes included elsewhere in this form 10-k. potential indemnification liabilities to agilent pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the separation and distribution agreement provides for, among other things, indemnification obligations designed to make us financially responsible for any liabilities associated with assets used by our business; our failure to pay, perform or otherwise promptly discharge any such liabilities or contracts, in accordance with their respective terms, whether prior to, at or after the distribution; any guarantee, indemnification obligation, surety bond or other credit support agreement, arrangement, commitment or understanding by agilent for our benefit, unless they are liabilities related to assets used in the agilent business; any breach by us of the separation agreement or any of the ancillary agreements or any action by us in contravention of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws; and any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, with respect to all information contained in the registration statement or any other disclosure document that describes the separation or the distribution or the company and its subsidiaries or primarily relates to the transactions contemplated by the separation and distribution agreement, subject to certain exceptions. if we are required to indemnify agilent under the circumstances set forth in the separation and distribution agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. in connection with our separation from agilent, agilent will indemnify us for certain liabilities. however, there can be no assurance that the indemnity will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that agilent's ability to satisfy its indemnification obligation will not be impaired in the future. pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement and certain other agreements with agilent, agilent agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. however, third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that agilent has agreed to retain, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from agilent will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that agilent will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. in addition, agilent's insurers may attempt to deny us coverage for liabilities associated with certain occurrences of indemnified liabilities prior to the separation. moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from agilent or such insurance providers any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. we will be subject to continuing contingent liabilities of agilent following the separation. after the separation, there are several significant areas where the liabilities of agilent may become our obligations. for example, under the internal revenue code and the related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of the agilent u.s. consolidated group during a taxable period or portion of a taxable period ending on or before the effective time of the distribution is severally liable for the u.s. federal income tax liability of the entire agilent u.s. consolidated group for that taxable period. consequently, if agilent is unable to pay the consolidated u.s. federal income tax liability for a prior period, we could be required to pay the entire amount of such tax, which could be substantial and in excess of the amount allocated to it under the tax matters agreement between us and agilent. other provisions of federal law establish similar liability for other matters, including laws governing tax-qualified pension plans, as well as other contingent liabilities. there could be significant liability if the distribution is determined to be a taxable transaction. a condition to the distribution is that agilent received an opinion of baker &amp; mckenzie llp, tax counsel to agilent, regarding the qualification of the separation and the distribution as a reorganization within the meaning of sections 355(a) and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code. the opinion relies on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from agilent and keysight, including those regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters. if any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not satisfied, agilent and its shareholders may not be able to rely on the opinion, and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. notwithstanding the opinion of tax counsel, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion. if the distribution were determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, agilent and its shareholders that are subject to u.s. federal income tax could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. for example, if the distribution failed to qualify for tax-free treatment, agilent would for u.s. federal income tax purposes be treated as if it had sold the keysight common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and agilent's shareholders, who are subject to u.s. federal income tax, would be treated as receiving a taxable distribution in an amount equal to the fair market value of the keysight common stock 23 table of contents received in the distribution. in addition, if the separation and distribution failed to qualify for tax-free treatment under federal, state and local tax law and/or foreign tax law, agilent (and, under the tax matters agreement described below, keysight) could incur significant tax liabilities under u.s. federal, state, local and/or foreign tax law. under the tax matters agreement between agilent and keysight, we are generally required to indemnify agilent against taxes incurred by agilent that arise as a result of our taking or failing to take, as the case may be, certain actions that result in the distribution failing to meet the requirements of a tax-free distribution under section 355 of the code. under the tax matters agreement between agilent and keysight, we may also be required to indemnify agilent for other contingent tax liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our financial position. risks related to our common stock our share price may fluctuate significantly. our common stock is listed on nyse under the ticker symbol keys. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to factors related to our business; success or failure of our business strategy; our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; our ability to obtain third-party financing as needed; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock; changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; the operating and share price performance of other comparable companies; investor perception of our company; natural or other disasters that investors believe may affect us; overall market fluctuations; results from any material litigation or government investigations; changes in laws or regulations affecting our business; and general economic conditions and other external factors. stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. in addition, when the market price of a company's shares drops significantly, shareholders often institute securities class action lawsuits against the company. a lawsuit against us could cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of management and other resources. we cannot guarantee the payment of dividends on our common stock, or the timing or amount of any such dividends. we do not currently expect to pay dividends on our common stock. the payment of any dividends in the future, and the timing and amount thereof, to our shareholders will fall within the discretion of our board of directors. the board's decisions regarding the payment of dividends will depend on many factors, such as our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, debt service obligations, restrictive covenants in our debt, industry practice, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors that the board deems relevant. we cannot guarantee that we will pay a dividend in the future or continue to pay any dividends if we commence paying dividends. certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and of delaware law, may prevent or delay an acquisition of the company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain, and delaware law contains, provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. these provisions include, among others: the inability of our shareholders to call a special meeting; the inability of our shareholders to act without a meeting of shareholders; 24 table of contents rules regarding how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings; the right of our board to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval; the division of our board of directors into three classes of directors, with each class serving a staggered three-year term, and this classified board provision could have the effect of making the replacement of incumbent directors more time consuming and difficult; a provision that shareholders may only remove directors with cause; the ability of our directors, and not shareholders, to fill vacancies on our board of directors; and the requirement that the affirmative vote of shareholders holding at least 80% of our voting stock is required to amend certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation (relating to the number, term and removal of our directors, the filling of our board vacancies, the advance notice to be given for nominations for elections of directors, the calling of special meetings of shareholders, shareholder action by written consent, the ability of the board of directors to amend the bylaws, elimination of liability of directors to the extent permitted by delaware law, exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders and amendments of the certificate of incorporation) and certain provisions in our amended and restated bylaws (relating to the calling of special meetings of shareholders, the business that may be conducted or considered at annual or special meetings, the advance notice of shareholder business and nominations, shareholder action by written consent, the number, tenure, qualifications and removal of our directors, the filling of our board vacancies, director and officer indemnification and amendments of the bylaws). in addition, because we have not chosen to be exempt from section 203 of the delaware general corporation law (the "dgcl"), this provision could also delay or prevent a change of control that some shareholders may favor. section 203 provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with a person that acquires, more than 15% of the outstanding voting stock of a delaware corporation (an "interested stockholder") shall not engage in any business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which the person became an interested stockholder, unless (i) prior to such time, the board of directors of such corporation approved either the business combination or the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder; (ii) upon consummation of the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of the voting stock of such corporation at the time the transaction commenced (excluding for purposes of determining the voting stock outstanding (but not the outstanding voting stock owned by the interested stockholder) the voting stock owned by directors who are also officers or held in employee benefit plans in which the employees do not have a confidential right to tender or vote stock held by the plan); or (iii) on or subsequent to such time the business combination is approved by the board of directors of such corporation and authorized at a meeting of shareholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock of such corporation not owned by the interested stockholder. we believe these provisions will protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. these provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. however, these provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of the company and our shareholders. these provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. in addition, an acquisition or further issuance of our stock could trigger the application of section 355(e) of the code. under the tax matters agreement, we would be required to indemnify agilent for the resulting tax, and this indemnity obligation might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that some shareholders may consider favorable. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates that the state courts in the state of delaware or, if no state court located within the state of delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the district of delaware, as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders, which could discourage lawsuits against the company and our directors and officers. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provide that unless the board of directors otherwise determines, the state courts in the state of delaware or, if no state court located within the state of delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the district of delaware, will be the sole and exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors or officers to the company or our shareholders, any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors or officers arising pursuant to any provision of the dgcl or keysight's amended and restated certificate of incorporation or bylaws, or any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors or officers governed by the internal affairs doctrine. this exclusive forum provision may limit the ability of our shareholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum that such shareholders find favorable for disputes with us or our directors or officers, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors and officers. 25 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk at various times, we use derivative financial instruments to limit exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. because derivative instruments are used solely as hedges and not for speculative trading purposes, fluctuations in the market values of such derivative instruments are generally offset by reciprocal changes in the underlying economic exposures that the instruments are intended to hedge. for further discussion of derivative financial instruments, refer to note 14, "derivatives." 46 table of contents currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries. we hedge future cash flows denominated in currencies other than the functional currency using sales and expense forecasts up to twelve months in advance. our exposure to exchange rate risks is managed on an enterprise-wide basis. this strategy utilizes derivative financial instruments, including option and forward contracts, to hedge certain foreign currency exposures with the intent of offsetting gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures with gains and losses on the derivative contracts hedging them. we do not currently and do not intend to utilize derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. our operations generate non-functional currency cash flows such as revenue, third-party vendor payments and inter-company payments. in anticipation of these foreign currency cash flows and in view of the volatility of the currency market, we enter into such foreign exchange contracts as described above to substantially mitigate our currency risk. approximately 71 percent of our revenues in 2016, 75 percent of our revenues in 2015 and 74 percent of our revenues in 2014 were generated in u.s. dollars. we performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10 percent adverse movement in foreign exchange rates to the hedging contracts and the underlying exposures described above. as of october 31, 2016 and 2015, the analysis indicated that these hypothetical market movements would not have a material effect on our combined and consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. interest rate risk as of october 31, 2016, we had $1,100 million in principal amount of fixed-rate senior notes outstanding. the carrying amount of the senior notes was $1,100 million, and the related fair value based on quoted prices was $1,130 million. a change in interest rates on long-term debt impacts the fair value of the company's fixed-rate long-term debt but not the company's earnings or cash flow because the interest on such debt is fixed. generally, the fair market value of fixed-rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. as of october 31, 2016, a hypothetical 10 percent increase in interest rates would have decreased the fair value of the company's fixed-rate long-term debt by approximately $20 million. however, since the company currently has no plans to repurchase its outstanding fixed-rate instruments before their maturity nor do the investors in our fixed-rate debt obligations have the right to demand we pay off these obligations prior to maturity, the impact of market interest rate fluctuations on the company's fixed-rate long-term debt does not affect the company's results of operations or stockholders' equity. 47 table of contentsrisk factors risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect future results risks related to our business depressed and uncertain general economic conditions may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our business is sensitive to negative changes in general economic conditions, both inside and outside the united states. the continued economic downturn may adversely impact our business, resulting in: reduced demand for our products, delays in the shipment of orders or increases in order cancellations; increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories; increased price pressure for our products and services; and greater risk of impairment to the value, and a detriment to the liquidity, of our future investment portfolio. in addition, macroeconomic developments, such as the recent downturn in europe, the economic slowdown in asia and the results of the recent u.s. and other national elections, economic uncertainties caused by the result of the united kingdom's referendum advising for its exit from the european union could negatively affect our ability to conduct business in those geographies. financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers and customers, including distributors, could result in product delays and inventory issues. risks to accounts receivable could result in delays in collection and greater bad debt expense. our operating results and financial condition could be harmed if the markets into which we sell our products decline or do not grow as anticipated. visibility into our markets is limited. our quarterly sales and operating results are highly dependent on the volume and timing of technology-related spending and orders received during the fiscal quarter, which are difficult to forecast and may be cancelled by our customers. in addition, our revenues and earnings forecasts for future fiscal quarters are often based on the expected seasonality or cyclicality of our markets. however, the markets we serve do not always experience the seasonality or cyclicality that we expect. any decline in our customers' markets would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products and services. the broader semiconductor market is one of the drivers for our business, and therefore, a decrease in the semiconductor market could harm our business. also, if our customers' markets decline, we may not be able to collect on outstanding amounts due to us. such declines could harm our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price, and could limit our profitability. also, in such an environment, pricing pressures could intensify. since a significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed in nature due to sales, r&amp;d and manufacturing costs, if we were unable to respond quickly enough, these pricing pressures could further reduce our operating margins. if we do not introduce successful new products and services in a timely manner to address increased competition, rapid technological changes and changing industry standards, our products and services will become obsolete, and our operating results will suffer. we generally sell our products in industries that are characterized by increased competition through frequent new product and service introductions, rapid technological changes and changing industry standards. in addition, many of the markets in which we operate are seasonal and cyclical. without the timely introduction of new products, services and enhancements, our products and services will become technologically obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. the success of new products and services will depend on several factors, including but not limited to our ability to: properly identify customer needs; innovate and develop new technologies, services and applications; successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner; manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and on time; differentiate our offerings from our competitors' offerings; price our products competitively; anticipate our competitors' development of new products, services or technological innovations; and control product quality in our manufacturing process. 18 table of contents dependence on contract manufacturing and outsourcing other portions of our supply chain may adversely affect our ability to bring products to market and damage our reputation. dependence on outsourced information technology and other administrative functions may impair our ability to operate effectively. as part of our efforts to streamline operations and to cut costs, we outsource aspects of our manufacturing processes and other functions and continue to evaluate additional outsourcing. if our contract manufacturers or other outsourcers fail to perform their obligations in a timely manner or at satisfactory quality levels, our ability to bring products to market and our reputation could suffer. for example, during a market upturn, our contract manufacturers may be unable to meet our demand requirements, which may preclude us from fulfilling our customers' orders on a timely basis. the ability of these manufacturers to perform is largely outside of our control. additionally, changing or replacing our contract manufacturers or other outsourcees could cause disruptions or delays. in addition, we outsource significant portions of our information technology ("it") and other administrative functions. since it is critical to our operations, any failure of our it providers to perform could impair our ability to operate effectively. in addition to the risks outlined above, problems with manufacturing or it outsourcing could result in lower revenues and unrealized efficiencies, and could impact our results of operations and stock price. much of our outsourcing takes place in developing countries and, as a result, may be subject to geopolitical uncertainty. failure to adjust our purchases due to changing market conditions or failure to estimate our customers' demand could adversely affect our income. our income could be harmed if we are unable to adjust our purchases to market fluctuations, including those caused by the seasonal or cyclical nature of the markets in which we operate. the sale of our products and services are dependent, to a large degree, on customers whose industries are subject to seasonal or cyclical trends in the demand for their products. for example, the consumer electronics market is particularly volatile, making demand difficult to anticipate. during a market upturn, we may not be able to purchase sufficient supplies or components to meet increasing product demand, which could materially affect our results. in the past, we have seen a shortage of parts for some of our products. in addition, some of the parts that require custom design are not readily available from alternate suppliers due to their unique design or the length of time necessary for design work. should a supplier cease manufacturing such a component, we would be forced to reengineer our product. in addition to discontinuing parts, suppliers may also extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. in order to secure components for the production of products, we may continue to enter into non-cancellable purchase commitments with vendors, or at times make advance payments to suppliers, which could impact our ability to adjust our inventory to declining market demands. prior commitments of this type have resulted in an excess of parts when demand for electronic products has decreased. if demand for our products is less than we expect, we may experience additional excess and obsolete inventories and be forced to incur additional charges. our operating results may suffer if our manufacturing capacity does not match the demand for our products. because we cannot immediately adapt our production capacity and related cost structures to rapidly changing market conditions, when demand does not meet our expectations, our manufacturing capacity will likely exceed our production requirements. if, during a general market upturn or an upturn in our business, we cannot increase our manufacturing capacity to meet product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner, which could lead to order cancellations, contract breaches or indemnification obligations. this inability could materially and adversely limit our ability to improve our income, margin and operating results. by contrast, if, during an economic downturn, we had excess manufacturing capacity, then our fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity would adversely affect our income, margins and operating results. industry consolidation and consolidation among our customer base may lead to increased competition and may harm our operating results. there is potential for industry consolidation in our markets. as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry, companies could be acquired or may be unable to continue operations. companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us. we believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors and could lead to more variability in our operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. furthermore, particularly in the communications market, rapid consolidation would lead to fewer customers, with the effect that loss of a major customer could have a material impact on results not anticipated in a customer marketplace composed of more numerous participants. additionally, if there is consolidation among our customer base, our customers may be able to command increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could adversely affect our profitability. in addition, if, as a result of increased leverage, customer pressures require us to reduce our pricing such that our gross margins are diminished, we could decide not to sell our products under such less favorable terms, which would decrease our revenue. consolidation among our customer base may also lead to reduced demand for our products, replacement of our products by the combined entity with those of our competitors and cancellations of orders, each of which could harm our operating results. 19 table of contents economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our results of operations. because we sell our products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. we anticipate that revenue from international operations will continue to represent a majority of our total revenue. however, there can be no assurances that our international sales will continue at existing levels or grow in accordance with our effort to increase foreign market penetration. in addition, many of our employees, contract manufacturers, suppliers, job functions and manufacturing facilities are located outside the united states. accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including but not limited to: interruption to transportation flows for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in a specific country's or region's political, economic or other conditions; trade protection measures, sanctions, and import or export licensing requirements or restrictions; negative consequences from changes in tax laws; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; differing labor regulations; differing protection of intellectual property; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and volatile political environments or geopolitical turmoil, including regional conflicts, terrorism, and war. we centralize most of our accounting processes at two locations: india and malaysia. these processes include general accounting, inventory cost accounting, accounts payable and accounts receivables functions. if conditions change in those countries, it may adversely affect operations, including impairing our ability to pay our suppliers. our results of operations, as well as our liquidity, may be adversely affected and possible delays may occur in reporting financial results. additionally, we must comply with complex foreign and u.s. laws and regulations, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, and anti-competition regulations. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, restrictions on our business conduct and on our ability to offer our products in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our brand, ability to attract and retain employees, international operations, business and operating results. although we actively maintain policies and procedures designed to ensure ongoing compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate these policies and procedures. in addition, although a substantial amount of our products are priced and paid for in u.s. dollars, many of our products are priced in local currencies and a significant amount of certain types of expenses, such as payroll, utilities, tax and marketing expenses, are paid in local currencies. our hedging programs are designed to reduce, but not entirely eliminate, within any given 12-month period, the impact of currency exchange rate movements, including those caused by currency controls, which could impact our business, operating results and financial condition by resulting in lower revenue or increased expenses. however, for expenses beyond a 12-month period, our hedging strategy will not mitigate our exchange rate risk. in addition, our currency hedging programs involve third-party financial institutions as counterparties. the weakening or failure of these counterparties may adversely affect our hedging programs and our financial condition through, among other things, a reduction in the number of available counterparties, increasingly unfavorable terms or the failure of counterparties to perform under hedging contracts. key customers or large orders may expose us to additional business and legal risks that could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition . certain key customers have substantial purchasing power and leverage in negotiating contractual arrangements with us. these customers may demand contract terms that differ considerably from our standard terms and conditions. large orders may also include severe contractual liabilities for us if we fail to provide the quantity and quality of product at the required delivery times. while we attempt to contractually limit our potential liability under such contracts, we may have to agree to some or all of these types of provisions to secure these orders and to continue to grow our business. such actions expose us to significant additional risks, which could result in a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. our business will suffer if we are not able to retain and hire key personnel. our future success depends partly on the continued service of our key research, engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing, executive and administrative personnel. if we fail to retain and hire a sufficient number of these personnel, we may not be able to maintain or expand our business. the markets in which we operate are dynamic, and we may need to respond with reorganizations, workforce reductions and site closures from time to time. we believe our pay levels are competitive within the regions that we 20 table of contents operate. however, there is also intense competition for certain highly technical specialties in geographic areas in which we operate, and it may become more difficult to retain key employees. any inability to complete acquisitions on acceptable terms could negatively impact our growth rate and financial performance. our ability to grow revenues, earnings and cash flow depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate businesses at appropriate prices and realize anticipated synergies and business performance. appropriate targets for acquisition are difficult to identify and complete for a variety of reasons, including but not limited to, limited due diligence, high valuations, business and intellectual property evaluations, other interested parties, negotiations of the definitive documentation, satisfaction of closing conditions, the need to obtain antitrust or other regulatory approvals on acceptable terms, and availability of funding. the inability to close appropriate acquisitions on acceptable terms could adversely impact our growth rate, revenue, and financial performance. our acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures may result in financial results that are different than expected. in the normal course of business, we may engage in discussions with third parties relating to possible acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures. as a result of such transactions, our financial results may differ from our own or the investment community's expectations in a given fiscal quarter, or over the long term. if market conditions or other factors lead us to change our strategic direction, we may not realize the expected value from such transactions. further, such transactions often have post-closing arrangements, including, but not limited to, post-closing adjustments, transition services, escrows or indemnifications, the financial results of which can be difficult to predict. in addition, acquisitions and strategic alliances may require us to integrate a different company culture, management team and business infrastructure. we may have difficulty developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company in a way that enhances the performance of our businesses or product lines to realize the value from expected synergies. depending on the size and complexity of an acquisition, the successful integration of the entity depends on a variety of factors, including but not limited to: the retention of key employees and/or customers; the management of facilities and employees in different geographic areas; and the compatibility of our infrastructure, policies and organizations with those of the acquired company. if we do not realize the expected benefits or synergies of such transactions, our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price could be negatively impacted. in addition, effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable and accurate financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. we are devoting significant resources and time to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. however, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we design, implement and maintain adequate control over our financial processes and reporting in the future, especially in the context of acquisitions of other businesses. any difficulties in the assimilation of acquired businesses into our control system could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock and our access to capital. all of these efforts require varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. we have outstanding debt and may incur other debt in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. we currently have outstanding debt as well as availability to borrow under a revolving credit facility. we may borrow additional amounts in the future and use the proceeds from any future borrowing for general corporate purposes, future acquisitions, expansion of our business or repurchases of our outstanding shares of common stock. our incurrence of this debt, and increases in our aggregate levels of debt, may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition by, among other things: requiring a portion of our cash flow from operations to make interest payments on this debt; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; reducing the cash flow available to fund capital expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow our business; and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry. our current revolving credit facility and term loan imposes restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to create liens on our assets and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur indebtedness, and requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. in addition, the indenture governing our senior notes contains covenants that may adversely affect our ability to incur certain liens or engage in certain types 21 table of contents of sale and leaseback transactions. if we breach any of the covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness could be declared immediately due and payable. environmental contamination from past operations could subject us to unreimbursed costs and could harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the properties involved, and environmental contamination caused by ongoing operations could subject us to substantial liabilities in the future. some of our properties are undergoing remediation by hp inc. ("hp") for subsurface contaminations that were known at the time of agilent's separation from hp in 1999. in connection with agilent's separation from hp, hp and agilent entered into an agreement pursuant to which hp agreed to retain the liability for this subsurface contamination, perform the required remediation and indemnify agilent with respect to claims arising out of that contamination. agilent has assigned its rights and obligations under this agreement to keysight in respect of facilities transferred to us in the separation. as a result, hp will have access to a limited number of our properties to perform remediation. although hp agreed to minimize interference with on-site operations at such properties, remediation activities and subsurface contamination may require us to incur unreimbursed costs and could harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the properties. in connection with the separation, agilent will indemnify us directly for any liabilities related thereto. we cannot be sure that hp will continue to fulfill its remediation obligations or that agilent will continue to fulfill its indemnification obligations. in connection with the separation from agilent, agilent also agreed to indemnify us for any liability associated with contamination from past operations at all properties transferred from agilent to keysight. we cannot be sure that agilent will fulfill its indemnification obligations. our current manufacturing processes involve the use of substances regulated under various international, federal, state and local laws governing the environment. as a result, we may become subject to liabilities for environmental contamination, and these liabilities may be substantial. although our policy is to apply strict standards for environmental protection at our sites inside and outside the united states, even if the sites outside the united states are not subject to regulations imposed by foreign governments, we may not be aware of all conditions that could subject us to liability. we and our customers are subject to various governmental regulations, compliance with which may cause us to incur significant expenses, and if we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with certain regulations, we may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, and we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties. we and our customers are subject to various significant international, federal, state and local regulations, including, but not limited to, health and safety, packaging, product content, labor and import/export regulations. these regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. we may be required to incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations or to remedy violations of these regulations. any failure by us to comply with applicable government regulations could also result in cessation of our operations or portions of our operations, product recalls or impositions of fines and restrictions on our ability to carry on or expand our operations. if demand for our products is adversely affected or our costs increase, our business would suffer. our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, like the international standards organization, as well as regulation by other agencies such as the u.s. federal communications commission. we also must comply with work safety rules. if we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our businesses could be harmed. third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products or services. from time to time, third parties may claim that one or more of our products or services infringe their intellectual property rights. we analyze and take action in response to such claims on a case-by-case basis. any dispute or litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming due to the complexity of our technology and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation and could divert our management and key personnel from business operations. a claim of intellectual property infringement could cause us to enter into a costly or restrictive license agreement (which may not be available under acceptable terms, or at all), require us to redesign certain of our products (which would be costly and time-consuming) and/or subject us to significant damages or an injunction against the development and sale of certain products or services. in certain of our businesses, we rely on third-party intellectual property licenses, and we cannot ensure that these licenses will be available to us in the future on terms favorable to us or at all. 22 table of contents third parties may infringe our intellectual property rights, and we may suffer competitive injury or expend significant resources enforcing our intellectual property rights. our success depends in part on our proprietary technology, including technology we obtained through acquisitions. we rely on various intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements, to establish our proprietary rights. if we do not enforce our intellectual property rights successfully, our competitive position may suffer, which could harm our operating results. our pending patent, copyright and trademark registration applications may not be allowed or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents, copyrights or trademarks. in addition, our patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not provide us with a significant competitive advantage. in preparation for the separation and distribution, we have applied for trademarks related to our new global brand name in various jurisdictions worldwide. any successful opposition to our applications in material jurisdictions could impose material costs on us or make it more difficult to protect our brand. different jurisdictions vary widely in the level of protection and priority they give to trademark and other intellectual property rights. we may be required to spend significant resources monitoring our intellectual property rights, and we may or may not be able to detect infringement of such rights by third parties. our competitive position may be harmed if we cannot detect infringement and enforce our intellectual property rights in a timely manner, or at all. in some circumstances, we may choose to not pursue enforcement due to a variety of reasons. in addition, competitors may avoid infringement by designing around our intellectual property rights or by developing non-infringing competing technologies. intellectual property rights and our ability to enforce them may be unavailable or limited in some countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share and could result in lost revenues to the company. furthermore, some of our intellectual property is licensed to others, which allows them to compete with us using that intellectual property. we are or will be subject to ongoing tax examinations of our tax returns by the irs and other tax authorities. an adverse outcome of any such audit or examination by the irs or other tax authority could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are or will be subject to ongoing tax examinations of our tax returns by the irs and other tax authorities in various jurisdictions. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from ongoing tax examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. these assessments can require considerable estimates and judgments. intercompany transactions associated with the sale of inventory, services, intellectual property and cost sharing arrangements are complex and affect our tax liabilities. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in multiple jurisdictions. the outcomes of any tax examinations could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. due to the complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters related to operations may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued. our operations may be adversely impacted by changes in our business mix or changes in the tax legislative landscape. our effective tax rate may be adversely impacted by, among other things, changes in the mix of our earnings among countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation allowance of deferred tax assets, and changes in tax laws. we cannot give any assurance as to what our effective tax rate will be in the future because, among other things, there is uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate. changes in tax laws, such as tax reform in the united states or changes in tax laws resulting from the organization for economic co-operation and development's ( oecd ) multi-jurisdictional plan of action to address base erosion and profit shifting and the taxation of the digital economy could impact our effective tax rate. if tax incentives change or cease to be in effect, our income taxes could increase significantly. we benefit from tax incentives extended to certain of our foreign subsidiaries to encourage investment or employment. several jurisdictions have granted us tax incentives that require renewal at various times in the future, the most significant being singapore. we do not expect incentives granted by other jurisdictions to have a material impact on our financial statements. the singapore tax incentive requires that specific conditions be satisfied, which include achieving thresholds of employment, ownership of certain assets, as well as specific types of investment activities within singapore. we believe that we will satisfy such conditions in the future as needed, but cannot guarantee that such conditions will be satisfied. our singapore tax incentive is due for renewal in fiscal 2024, but we cannot guarantee that singapore will not revoke the tax incentive earlier. singapore announced potential changes to its ip incentive programs in its 2017 budget. such potential changes could result in a reduction in tax incentive benefits and an early termination of or changes to our existing singapore incentive in 2021. no changes have been finalized, and it is unclear to what extent, if at all, changes will be made to the tax incentives or any specific conditions. we cannot guarantee that we will qualify for any new incentive regime or that such conditions will be satisfied. 23 table of contents our taxes could increase if the incentives are not renewed upon revocation or expiration. if we cannot or do not wish to satisfy all or portions of the tax incentive conditions, we may lose the related tax incentive and could be required to refund the benefits that the tax incentives previously provided. as a result, our effective tax rate could be higher than it would have been had we maintained the benefits of the tax incentives and could harm our operating results. if we suffer a loss to our factories, facilities or distribution system due to a catastrophic event, our operations could be significantly harmed. our factories, facilities and distribution system are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, terrorism or other natural or manmade disasters. in particular, several of our facilities could be subject to a catastrophic loss caused by earthquake or other natural disasters due to their locations. for example, our production facilities, headquarters and laboratories in california and our production facilities in japan are all located in areas with above-average seismic activity. if any of these facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. if such a disruption were to occur, we could breach our agreements, our reputation could be harmed and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. in addition, since we have consolidated our manufacturing facilities, we are more likely to experience an interruption to our operations in the event of a catastrophe in any one location. although we carry insurance for property damage and business interruption, we do not carry insurance or financial reserves for interruptions or potential losses arising from earthquakes or terrorism. also, our third-party insurance coverage will vary from time to time in both type and amount depending on availability, cost and our decision with respect to risk retention. economic conditions and uncertainties in global markets may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain third-party insurance. if our third-party insurance coverage is adversely affected, or to the extent we have elected to self-insure, we may be at a greater risk that our operations will be harmed by a catastrophic loss. if we experience a significant disruption in, or breach in security of, our information technology systems, our business could be adversely affected. we rely on several centralized information technology systems to provide products and services, maintain financial records, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. if we experience a prolonged system disruption in the information technology systems that involve our interactions with customers or suppliers, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. in addition, our information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophes or other unforeseen events. furthermore, security breaches of our information technology systems could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to the company or our employees, partners, customers or suppliers, which could result in significant financial or reputational damage to the company. man-made problems such as cybersecurity attacks, computer viruses or terrorism may disrupt our operations and harm our business, reputation and operating results despite our implementation of network security measures, our network may be vulnerable to cybersecurity attacks, computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions. cybersecurity attacks, in particular, are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. our daily business operations require us to retain sensitive data such as intellectual property, proprietary business information and data related to customers, suppliers and business partners within our networking infrastructure. the ongoing maintenance and security of this information is pertinent to the success of our business operations and our strategic goals, and organizations like keysight are susceptible to multiple variations of attacks on our networks on a daily basis. our networking infrastructure and related assets may be subject to unauthorized access by hackers, employee errors, or other unforeseen activities. such issues could result in the disruption of business processes, network degradation and system downtime, along with the potential that a third party will exploit our critical assets such as intellectual property, proprietary business information and data related to our customers, suppliers and business partners. to the extent that such disruptions occur, they may cause delays in the manufacture or shipment of our products and the cancellation of customer orders and, as a result, our business operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected resulting in a possible loss of business or brand reputation. in addition, the effects of war or acts of terrorism could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. the continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruption to the economy and create further uncertainties in the economy. energy shortages, such as gas or electricity shortages, could have similar negative impacts. to the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result in delays or cancellations of customer orders or the manufacture or shipment of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 24 table of contents our business and financial results may be adversely affected by various legal and regulatory proceedings. we are subject to legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims in the normal course of business and could become subject to additional claims in the future, some of which could be material. the outcome of existing proceedings, lawsuits and claims may differ from our expectations because the outcomes of litigation are often difficult to reliably predict. various factors or developments can lead us to change current estimates of liabilities and related insurance receivables where applicable, or permit us to make such estimates for matters previously not susceptible to reasonable estimates, such as a significant judicial ruling or judgment, a significant settlement, significant regulatory developments or changes in applicable law. a future adverse ruling, settlement or unfavorable development could result in charges that could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. we have substantial cash requirements in the united states, although most of our cash is generated outside of the united states. the failure to maintain a level of cash sufficient to address our cash requirements in the united states could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. although the cash generated in the united states from our operations, including any cash and non-permanently invested earnings repatriated to the united states, is expected to cover our normal operating requirements and debt service requirements, a substantial amount of additional cash may be required for special purposes such as the maturity of our current and future debt obligations, any dividends that may be declared, any future stock repurchase programs and any acquisitions. if we encounter a significant need for liquidity domestically that we cannot fulfill through borrowings, equity offerings or other internal or external sources, the transfer of cash into the united states may incur an overall tax rate higher than our tax rates have been in the past and negatively impact after-tax earnings. we may need additional financing in the future to meet our capital needs or to make opportunistic acquisitions, and such financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, if at all, and may be dilutive to existing shareholders. we may need to seek additional financing for our general corporate purposes. for example, we may need to increase our investment in r&amp;d activities or need funds to make acquisitions. we may be unable to obtain any desired additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. if adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our expansion, successfully develop or enhance products or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could negatively affect our business. if we finance acquisitions by issuing additional convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may experience share dilution, which could affect the market price of our stock. if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, our shareholders will experience dilution of their ownership interest. if we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to further limitations on our operations and ability to pay dividends due to restrictive covenants. adverse conditions in the global banking industry and credit markets may adversely impact the value of our cash investments or impair our liquidity. our cash and cash equivalents are invested or held in a mix of money market funds, time deposit accounts and bank demand deposit accounts. disruptions in the financial markets may, in some cases, result in an inability to access assets such as money market funds that traditionally have been viewed as highly liquid. any failure of our counterparty financial institutions or funds in which we have invested may adversely impact our cash and cash equivalent positions and, in turn, our results and financial condition. future investment returns on pension assets may be lower than expected or interest rates may decline, requiring us to make significant additional cash contributions to our future plans. we sponsor several defined benefit pension plans that cover many of our salaried and hourly employees. the federal pension protection act of 2006 requires that certain capitalization levels be maintained in each of the u.s. plans, and there may be similar funding requirements in the plans outside the united states. because it is unknown what the investment return on and the fair value of our pension assets will be in future years or what interest rates and discount rates may be at any point in time, no assurances can be given that applicable law will not require us to make future material plan contributions. any such contributions could adversely affect our financial condition. risks related to our common stock our share price may fluctuate significantly. our common stock is listed on nyse under the ticker symbol keys. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including but not limited to: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to factors related to our business; success or failure of our business strategy; 25 table of contents our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; our ability to obtain third-party financing as needed; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock; changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; the operating and share price performance of other comparable companies; investor perception of our company; natural or other disasters that investors believe may affect us; overall market fluctuations; results from any material litigation or government investigations; changes in laws or regulations affecting our business; and general economic conditions and other external factors. stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. in addition, when the market price of a company's shares drops significantly, shareholders often institute securities class action lawsuits against the company. a lawsuit against us could cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of management and other resources. we do not currently pay dividends on our common stock. we do not currently pay dividends on our common stock. the payment of any dividends in the future, and the timing and amount thereof, to our stockholders fall within the discretion of our board of directors. the board's decisions regarding the payment of dividends will depend on many factors, such as our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, debt service obligations, restrictive covenants in our debt, industry practice, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors that the board deems relevant. we cannot guarantee that we will pay a dividend in the future or continue to pay any dividends if we commence paying dividends. certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and of delaware law, may prevent or delay an acquisition of the company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain, and delaware law contains, provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. these provisions include but are not limited to: the inability of our shareholders to call a special meeting; the inability of our shareholders to act without a meeting of shareholders; rules regarding how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings; the right of our board to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval; the division of our board of directors into three classes of directors, with each class serving a staggered three-year term, and this classified board provision could have the effect of making the replacement of incumbent directors more time consuming and difficult; a provision that shareholders may only remove directors with cause; the ability of our directors, and not shareholders, to fill vacancies on our board of directors; and the requirement that the affirmative vote of shareholders holding at least 80% of our voting stock is required to amend certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation (relating to the number, term and removal of our directors, the filling of our board vacancies, the advance notice to be given for nominations for elections of directors, the calling of special meetings of shareholders, shareholder action by written consent, the ability of the board of directors to amend the bylaws, elimination of liability of directors to the extent permitted by delaware law, exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders and amendments of the certificate of incorporation) and certain provisions in our amended and restated bylaws (relating to the calling of special meetings of shareholders, the business that may be conducted or considered at annual or special meetings, the advance notice of shareholder business and nominations, shareholder action by written consent, the number, tenure, qualifications and removal of our directors, the filling of our board vacancies, director and officer indemnification and amendments of the bylaws). 26 table of contents in addition, because we have not chosen to be exempt from section 203 of the delaware general corporation law (the "dgcl"), this provision could also delay or prevent a change of control that some shareholders may favor. section 203 provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with a person that acquires, more than 15% of the outstanding voting stock of a delaware corporation (an "interested stockholder") shall not engage in any business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which the person became an interested stockholder, unless (i) prior to such time, the board of directors of such corporation approved either the business combination or the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder; (ii) upon consummation of the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of the voting stock of such corporation at the time the transaction commenced (excluding for purposes of determining the voting stock outstanding (but not the outstanding voting stock owned by the interested stockholder) the voting stock owned by directors who are also officers or held in employee benefit plans in which the employees do not have a confidential right to tender or vote stock held by the plan); or (iii) on or subsequent to such time the business combination is approved by the board of directors of such corporation and authorized at a meeting of shareholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock of such corporation not owned by the interested stockholder. we believe these provisions will protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. these provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. however, these provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of the company and our shareholders. these provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates that the state courts in the state of delaware or, if no state court located within the state of delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the district of delaware, as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders, which could discourage lawsuits against the company and our directors and officers. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provide that unless the board of directors otherwise determines, the state courts in the state of delaware or, if no state court located within the state of delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the district of delaware, will be the sole and exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors or officers to the company or our shareholders, any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors or officers arising pursuant to any provision of the dgcl or keysight's amended and restated certificate of incorporation or bylaws, or any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors or officers governed by the internal affairs doctrine. this exclusive forum provision may limit the ability of our shareholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum that such shareholders find favorable for disputes with us or our directors or officers, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors and officers. risks related to the acquisition of ixia we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the merger or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. we may also encounter significant unexpected difficulties in integrating the two businesses. our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate our and ixia's businesses. the combination of two independent businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. as a result, we will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating ixia's business practices and operations with our existing business practices and operations. the integration process may disrupt the businesses and, if implemented ineffectively or if impacted by unforeseen negative economic or market conditions or other factors, we may not realize the full anticipated benefits of the merger. our failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating the two businesses to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, our activities and could adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, the overall integration of the businesses may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer relationships, and diversion of management's attention. the difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include but are not limited to: the diversion of management's attention to integration matters; difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from combining ixia's business with our business; difficulties entering new markets or manufacturing in new geographies where we have no or limited direct prior experience; difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; difficulties in the assimilation of employees; 27 table of contents difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company; successfully managing relationships with our strategic partners and supplier and customer base; and challenges in maintaining existing, and establishing new, business relationships. many of these factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially impact the business, financial condition and our results of operations. in addition, even if the operations of our business and ixia's business are integrated successfully, we may not realize the full benefits of the merger, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that we expect. these benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. furthermore, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses. all of these factors could decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the merger and negatively impact us. as a result, we cannot be certain that the combination of our and ixia's businesses will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated from the merger. uncertainties associated with the merger may cause a loss of employees and may otherwise materially adversely affect the future business and operations of the combined company. the combined company's success after the merger will depend in part upon the ability of the combined company to retain executive officers and key employees. in some of the fields in which we and ixia operate, there are only a limited number of people in the job market who possess the requisite skills and it may be increasingly difficult for the combined company to hire personnel over time. current and prospective employees of each company may experience uncertainty about their roles with the combined company following the merger. in addition, key employees may depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with the combined company following the merger. the loss of services of any key personnel or the inability to hire new personnel with the requisite skills could restrict the ability of the combined company to develop new products or enhance existing products in a timely manner, to sell products to customers or to manage the business of the combined company effectively. also, the business, financial condition and results of operations of the combined company could be materially adversely affected by the loss of any of its key employees, by the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position, or by the combined company's inability to attract and retain skilled employees. we and ixia will incur direct and indirect costs as a result of the merger. we and ixia will incur substantial expenses in connection with and as a result of completing the merger and, over a period of time following the completion of the merger, we further expect to incur substantial expenses in connection with coordinating our businesses, operations, policies and procedures and ixia's. while we have assumed that a certain level of transaction expenses will be incurred, factors beyond our control could affect the total amount or the timing of these expenses. many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately. risks related to the separation we will be subject to continuing contingent liabilities of agilent following the separation. after the separation, there are several significant areas where the liabilities of agilent may become our obligations. for example, under the internal revenue code and the related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of the agilent u.s. consolidated group during a taxable period or portion of a taxable period ending on or before the effective time of the distribution is severally liable for the u.s. federal income tax liability of the entire agilent u.s. consolidated group for that taxable period. consequently, if agilent is unable to pay the consolidated u.s. federal income tax liability for a prior period, we could be required to pay the entire amount of such tax, which could be substantial and in excess of the amount allocated to it as agreed between us and agilent at the time of separation. other provisions of federal law establish similar liability for other matters, including laws governing tax-qualified pension plans, as well as other contingent liabilities. there could be significant liability if the distribution is determined to be a taxable transaction. a condition to the distribution is that agilent received an opinion of baker &amp; mckenzie llp, tax counsel to agilent, regarding the qualification of the separation and the distribution as a reorganization within the meaning of sections 355(a) and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code. the opinion relies on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from agilent and keysight, including those regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters. if any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not satisfied, agilent and its shareholders may not be able to rely on the opinion, and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. notwithstanding the opinion of tax counsel, the irs could determine 28 table of contents on audit that the distribution is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion. if the distribution were determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, agilent and its shareholders that are subject to u.s. federal income tax could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. for example, if the distribution failed to qualify for tax-free treatment, agilent would for u.s. federal income tax purposes be treated as if it had sold the keysight common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and agilent's shareholders, who are subject to u.s. federal income tax, would be treated as receiving a taxable distribution in an amount equal to the fair market value of the keysight common stock received in the distribution. in addition, if the separation and distribution failed to qualify for tax-free treatment under federal, state and local tax law and/or foreign tax law, agilent and keysight could each incur significant tax liabilities under u.s. federal, state, local and/or foreign tax law. under the agreement between agilent and keysight pertaining to tax matters, as finalized at the time of separation, we are generally required to indemnify agilent against taxes incurred by agilent that arise as a result of our taking or failing to take, as the case may be, certain actions that result in the distribution failing to meet the requirements of a tax-free distribution under section 355 of the code. under the agreement between agilent and keysight, as finalized at the time of separation, we may also be required to indemnify agilent for other contingent tax liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our financial position. 29 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk at various times, we use derivative financial instruments to limit exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. because derivative instruments are used solely as hedges and not for speculative trading purposes, fluctuations in the market values of such derivative instruments are generally offset by reciprocal changes in the underlying economic exposures that the instruments are intended to hedge. for further discussion of derivative financial instruments, refer to note 13, "derivatives." currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries. we hedge future cash flows denominated in currencies other than the functional currency using sales and expense forecasts up to twelve months in advance. our exposure to exchange rate risks is managed on an enterprise-wide basis. this strategy utilizes derivative financial instruments, including option and forward contracts, to hedge certain foreign currency exposures with the intent of offsetting gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures with gains and losses on the derivative contracts hedging them. we do not currently and do not intend to utilize derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. our operations generate non-functional currency cash flows such as revenue, third-party vendor payments and inter-company payments. in anticipation of these foreign currency cash flows and in view of the volatility of the currency market, we enter into such foreign exchange contracts as described above to substantially mitigate our currency risk. approximately 71 percent of our revenues in 2017 and 2016 and 75 percent of our revenues in 2015 were generated in u.s. dollars. we performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10 percent adverse movement in foreign exchange rates to the hedging contracts and the underlying exposures described above. as of october 31, 2017 and 2016, the analysis indicated that these hypothetical market movements would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. interest rate risk as of october 31, 2017, we had $2,060 million in principal amount of senior debt outstanding. the carrying amount of the fixed-rate senior notes was $1,799 million, and the related fair value based on quoted prices was $1,890 million. a change in interest rates on long-term debt impacts the fair value of the company's fixed-rate long-term debt but not the company's earnings or cash flow because the interest on such debt is fixed. generally, the fair market value of fixed-rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. as of october 31, 2017, a hypothetical 10 percent increase in interest rates would have decreased the fair value of the company's fixed-rate long-term debt by approximately $36 million. however, since the company currently has no plans to repurchase its outstanding fixed-rate instruments before their maturity nor do the investors in our fixed-rate debt obligations have the right to demand we pay off these obligations prior to maturity, the impact of market interest rate fluctuations on the company's fixed-rate long-term debt does not affect the company's results of operations or stockholders' equity. 51 table of contentsrisk factors risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect future results risks related to our business failure to introduce successful new solutions and services in a timely manner to address increased competition, rapid technological changes, and changing industry standards could result in our solutions and services becoming obsolete. we generally sell our solutions in industries that are characterized by increased competition through frequent new solution and service introductions, rapid technological changes and changing industry standards. in addition, many of the markets in which we operate are seasonal and cyclical. without the timely introduction of new solutions, services and enhancements, our solutions and services will become technologically obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. our ability to offer new solutions and services and to deploy them in a timely manner depend on several factors, including but not limited to our ability to: properly identify customer needs; innovate and develop new technologies, services and applications; successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner; manufacture and deliver our solutions in sufficient volumes and on time; differentiate our offerings from our competitors' offerings; price our solutions competitively; anticipate our competitors' development of new solutions, services or technological innovations; and control product quality in our manufacturing process. our future operating results may fluctuate significantly if our investments in innovative technologies are not as profitable as we anticipate. on a regular basis, we review the existing technologies available in the market and identify strategic new technologies to develop and invest in. we are currently devoting significant resources to the 5g technology, in the automotive and battery industries, in the internet of things, and mobile industries. we are investing in r&amp;d, developing relationships with customers and suppliers, and re-directing our corporate and operational resources to grow within these innovative technologies. our income could be harmed if we fail to gain sufficient market share, if demand for our solutions is lower than we expect, or if our income related to the innovative technologies is lower than we anticipate. for example, when the 5g standards are published, we may not be able to produce a satisfactory return on investment if our strategic vision and the resources that we are spending on developing our presence in the 5g technology industry turn out to be misaligned with such standards. failure to adjust our purchases due to changing market conditions or failure to estimate our customers' demand could adversely affect our income. our income could be harmed if we are unable to adjust our purchases to market fluctuations, including those caused by the seasonal or cyclical nature of the markets in which we operate. the sale of our solutions and services are dependent, to a large degree, on customers whose industries are subject to seasonal or cyclical trends in the demand for their products. for example, the consumer electronics market is particularly volatile, making demand difficult to anticipate. during a market upturn, we may not be able to purchase sufficient supplies or components to meet increasing product demand, which could materially affect our results. in the past, we have seen a shortage of parts for some of our products. in addition, some of the parts that require custom design are not readily available from alternate suppliers due to their unique design or the length of time necessary for design work. should a supplier cease manufacturing such a component, we would be forced to re-engineer our solution. in addition to discontinuing parts, suppliers may also extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. in order to secure components for the production of products, we may continue to enter into non-cancellable purchase commitments with vendors, or at times make advance payments to suppliers, which could impact our ability to adjust our inventory to declining market demands. prior commitments of this type have resulted in an excess of parts when demand for electronic products has decreased. if demand for our solutions is less than we expect, we may experience additional excess and obsolete inventories and be forced to incur additional charges. economic and political policies favoring national interests could adversely affect our results of operations. our overall performance depends largely upon domestic and international economic and political conditions. many of our suppliers, vendors, partners, and other entities with whom we do business have strong ties to doing business in china and their ability to supply materials to us or otherwise work with us is strongly affected by their ability to do business in china. if the u.s.'s relationship with china deteriorates or results in trade protection measures, retaliatory actions, tariffs and increased barriers, 16 table of contents policies that favor domestic industries, or increased import or export licensing requirements or restrictions, then our operations may be adversely affected due to such changes in the economic and political ecosystem in which our suppliers, vendors, partners, and other entities with whom we do business operate. we have significant operations, including a large number of employees, manufacturing facilities, and operations centers in the united states, the united kingdom, the european union, singapore, malaysia and china among other countries. nationalistic economic policies and political trends in these territories, such as opposition to globalization and free trade, sanctions or trade restrictions, withdrawal from or re-negotiation of global trade agreements, tax policies that favor domestic industries and interests, the anticipated exit of the united kingdom from the european union (known as brexit), the distancing or potential exit of other countries from the european union, and other similar actions may result in increased transaction costs, reduced ability to hire employees, reduced access to supplies and materials, reduced demand or access to customers in international markets, and inability to conduct our operations as they have been conducted historically. each of these factors may adversely affect our business. economic, political, and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our results of operations. because we sell our solutions worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. we anticipate that revenue from international operations will continue to represent a majority of our total revenue. however, there can be no assurances that our international sales will continue at existing levels or grow in accordance with our effort to increase foreign market penetration. in addition, many of our employees, contract manufacturers, suppliers, job functions and manufacturing facilities are located outside the united states. accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including but not limited to: changes in a specific country's or region's political, economic or other conditions, including but not limited to changes that favor national interests and economic volatility; negative consequences from changes in tax laws; difficulty in protecting intellectual property; interruption to transportation flows for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; local competition; differing labor regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; inadequate local infrastructure; potential incidences of corruption and fraudulent business practices; and volatile geopolitical turmoil, including popular uprisings, regional conflicts, terrorism, and war. we centralize most of our accounting processes at two locations: india and malaysia. these processes include general accounting, inventory cost accounting, accounts payable and accounts receivables functions. if conditions change in those countries, it may adversely affect operations, including impairing our ability to pay our suppliers. our results of operations, as well as our liquidity, may be adversely affected and possible delays may occur in reporting financial results. further, even if we are able to successfully manage the risks of international operations, our business may be adversely affected if our business partners are not able to successfully manage similar risks. our operating results and financial condition could be harmed if the markets into which we sell our solutions decline or do not grow as anticipated. visibility into our markets is limited. our quarterly sales and operating results are highly dependent on the volume and timing of technology-related spending and orders received during the fiscal quarter, which are difficult to forecast and may be cancelled by our customers. in addition, our revenues and earnings forecasts for future fiscal quarters are often based on the expected seasonality or cyclicality of our markets. however, the markets we serve do not always experience the seasonality or cyclicality that we expect. any decline in our customers' markets would likely result in a reduction in demand for our solutions and services. the broader semiconductor market is one of the drivers for our business, and therefore, a decrease in the semiconductor market could harm our business. also, if our customers' markets decline, we may not be able to collect on outstanding amounts due to us. such declines could harm our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price, and could limit our profitability. also, in such an environment, pricing pressures could intensify. since a significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed in nature due to sales, r&amp;d and manufacturing costs, if we were unable to respond quickly enough, these pricing pressures could further reduce our operating margins. 17 table of contents uncertainty in general economic conditions may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our business is sensitive to negative changes in general economic conditions, both inside and outside the united states. global and regional economic uncertainty or depression may impact our business, resulting in: reduced demand for our solutions, delays in the shipment of orders or increases in order cancellations; increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories; increased price pressure for our solutions and services; and greater risk of impairment to the value, and a detriment to the liquidity, of our future investment portfolio. in addition, global and regional macroeconomic developments, such as increased unemployment, decreased income, reduced access to credit, volatility in capital markets, decreased liquidity, uncertain or destabilizing national election results in the u.s., europe, and asia, and negative changes or volatility in general economic conditions in the u.s., europe, and asia could negatively affect our ability to conduct business in those territories. financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers and customers, including distributors, due to economic volatility or negative changes could result in product delays and inventory issues. economic risks related to accounts receivable could result in delays in collection and greater bad debt expense. dependence on contract manufacturing and outsourcing other portions of our supply chain may adversely affect our ability to bring solutions to market and damage our reputation. dependence on outsourced information technology and other administrative functions may impair our ability to operate effectively. as part of our efforts to streamline operations and to cut costs, we outsource aspects of our manufacturing processes and other functions and continue to evaluate additional outsourcing. if our contract manufacturers or other outsourcers fail to perform their obligations in a timely manner or at satisfactory quality levels, our ability to bring solutions to market and our reputation could suffer. for example, during a market upturn, our contract manufacturers may be unable to meet our demand requirements, which may preclude us from fulfilling our customers' orders on a timely basis. the ability of these manufacturers to perform is largely outside of our control. additionally, changing or replacing our contract manufacturers or other outsourcees could cause disruptions or delays. in addition, we outsource significant portions of our information technology ("it") and other administrative functions. since it is critical to our operations, any failure of our it providers to perform could impair our ability to operate effectively. in addition to the risks outlined above, problems with manufacturing or it outsourcing could result in lower revenues and unrealized efficiencies, and could impact our results of operations and stock price. much of our outsourcing takes place in developing countries and, as a result, may be subject to geopolitical uncertainty. our operating results may suffer if our manufacturing capacity does not match the demand for our solutions. because we cannot immediately adapt our production capacity and related cost structures to rapidly changing market conditions, when demand does not meet our expectations, our manufacturing capacity will likely exceed our production requirements. during a general market upturn or an upturn in our business, we cannot increase our manufacturing capacity to meet product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner, which could lead to order cancellations, contract breaches or indemnification obligations. this inability could materially and adversely limit our ability to improve our income, margin and operating results. by contrast, if, during an economic downturn, we had excess manufacturing capacity, then our fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity would adversely affect our income, margins and operating results. key customers or large orders may expose us to additional business and legal risks that could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition . certain key customers have substantial purchasing power and leverage in negotiating contractual arrangements with us. these customers may demand contract terms that differ considerably from our standard terms and conditions. large orders may also include severe contractual liabilities for us if we fail to provide the quantity and quality of product at the required delivery times. while we attempt to contractually limit our potential liability under such contracts, we may have to agree to some or all of these types of provisions to secure these orders and to continue to grow our business. such actions expose us to significant additional risks, which could result in a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. industry consolidation and consolidation among our customer base may lead to increased competition and may harm our operating results. there is potential for industry consolidation in our markets. as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry, companies could be acquired or may be unable to continue operations. companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us. we believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors and could lead to more variability in our operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. furthermore, particularly in the communications market, rapid consolidation would lead to fewer customers, with the effect that loss of a major customer could have a material impact on results not anticipated in a customer marketplace composed of more numerous participants. 18 table of contents additionally, if there is consolidation among our customer base, our customers may be able to command increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could adversely affect our profitability. in addition, if, as a result of increased leverage, customer pressures require us to reduce our pricing such that our gross margins are diminished, we could decide not to sell our solutions under such less favorable terms, which would decrease our revenue. consolidation among our customer base may also lead to reduced demand for our solutions, replacement of our products by the combined entity with those of our competitors and cancellations of orders, each of which could harm our operating results. our acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures may result in financial results that are different than expected. in the normal course of business, we may engage in discussions with third parties relating to possible acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures. as a result of such transactions, our financial results may differ from our own or the investment community's expectations in a given fiscal quarter, or over the long term. if market conditions or other factors lead us to change our strategic direction, we may not realize the expected value from such transactions. further, such transactions often have post-closing arrangements, including, but not limited to, post-closing adjustments, transition services, escrows or indemnifications, the financial results of which can be difficult to predict. in addition, acquisitions and strategic alliances may require us to integrate a different company culture, management team and business infrastructure. we may have difficulty developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company in a way that enhances the performance of our businesses or product lines to realize the value from expected synergies. depending on the size and complexity of an acquisition, the successful integration of the entity depends on a variety of factors, including but not limited to: the achievement of anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from combining the acquired company; the compatibility of our infrastructure, operations, policies and organizations with those of the acquired company; the retention of key employees and/or customers; the management of facilities and employees in different geographic areas; and the management of relationships with our strategic partners, suppliers, and customer base. if we do not realize the expected benefits or synergies of such transactions, our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price could be negatively impacted. additionally, we may record significant goodwill and other assets as a result of acquisitions or investments, and we may be required to incur impairment charges, which could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. any inability to complete acquisitions on acceptable terms could negatively impact our growth rate and financial performance. our ability to grow revenues, earnings and cash flow depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate businesses at appropriate prices and realize anticipated synergies and business performance. appropriate targets for acquisition are difficult to identify and complete for a variety of reasons, including but not limited to, limited due diligence, high valuations, business and intellectual property evaluations, other interested parties, negotiations of the definitive documentation, satisfaction of closing conditions, the need to obtain antitrust or other regulatory approvals on acceptable terms, and availability of funding. the inability to close appropriate acquisitions on acceptable terms could adversely impact our growth rate, revenue, and financial performance. we may need additional financing in the future to meet our capital needs or to make opportunistic acquisitions, and such financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, if at all, and may be dilutive to existing shareholders. we may need to seek additional financing for our general corporate purposes. for example, we may need to increase our investment in r&amp;d activities or need funds to make acquisitions. we may be unable to obtain any desired additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. if adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our expansion, successfully develop or enhance solutions or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could negatively affect our business. if we finance acquisitions by issuing additional convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may experience share dilution, which could affect the market price of our stock. if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, our shareholders will experience dilution of their ownership interest. if we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to further limitations on our operations and ability to pay dividends due to restrictive covenants. we have outstanding debt and may incur other debt in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. we currently have outstanding debt as well as availability to borrow under a revolving credit facility. we may borrow additional amounts in the future and use the proceeds from any future borrowing for general corporate purposes, future acquisitions, expansion of our business or repurchases of our outstanding shares of common stock. 19 table of contents our incurrence of this debt, and increases in our aggregate levels of debt, may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition by, among other things: requiring a portion of our cash flow from operations to make interest payments on this debt; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; reducing the cash flow available to fund capital expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow our business; and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry. our current revolving credit facility and term loan imposes restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to create liens on our assets and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur indebtedness, and requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. in addition, the indenture governing our senior notes contains covenants that may adversely affect our ability to incur certain liens or engage in certain types of sale and leaseback transactions. if we breach any of the covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness could be declared immediately due and payable. if currency exchange rates fluctuate substantially in the future, our financial results could be adversely affected. a substantial amount of our solutions are priced and paid for in u.s. dollars, although many of our solutions are priced in local currencies and a significant amount of certain types of expenses, such as payroll, utilities, tax and marketing expenses, are paid in local currencies. our hedging programs are designed to reduce, but not entirely eliminate, within any given 12-month period, the impact of currency exchange rate movements, including those caused by currency controls, which could impact our business, operating results and financial condition by resulting in lower revenue or increased expenses. however, for expenses beyond a 12-month period, our hedging strategy will not mitigate our exchange rate risk. in addition, our currency hedging programs involve third-party financial institutions as counterparties. the weakening or failure of these counterparties may adversely affect our hedging programs and our financial condition through, among other things, a reduction in the number of available counterparties, increasingly unfavorable terms or the failure of counterparties to perform under hedging contracts. third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling solutions or services. third parties may claim that one or more of our solutions or services infringe their intellectual property rights. we analyze and take action in response to such claims on a case-by-case basis. any dispute or litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming due to the complexity of our technology and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation and could divert our management and key personnel from business operations. a claim of intellectual property infringement could cause us to enter into a costly or restrictive license agreement (which may not be available under acceptable terms, or at all), require us to redesign certain of our solutions (which would be costly and time-consuming) and/or subject us to significant damages or an injunction against the development and sale of certain solutions or services. in certain of our businesses, we rely on third-party intellectual property licenses, and we cannot ensure that these licenses will be available to us in the future on terms favorable to us or at all. third parties may infringe our intellectual property rights, and we may suffer competitive injury or expend significant resources enforcing our intellectual property rights. our success depends in part on our proprietary technology, including technology we obtained through acquisitions. we rely on various intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements, to establish our proprietary rights. if we do not enforce our intellectual property rights successfully, our competitive position may suffer, which could harm our operating results. our pending patent, copyright and trademark registration applications may not be allowed or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents, copyrights or trademarks. in addition, our patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not provide us with a significant competitive advantage. in preparation for the separation and distribution, we have applied for trademarks related to our new global brand name in various jurisdictions worldwide. any successful opposition to our applications in material jurisdictions could impose material costs on us or make it more difficult to protect our brand. different jurisdictions vary widely in the level of protection and priority they give to trademark and other intellectual property rights. we may be required to spend significant resources monitoring our intellectual property rights, and we may or may not be able to detect infringement of such rights by third parties. our competitive position may be harmed if we cannot detect infringement and enforce our intellectual property rights in a timely manner, or at all. in some circumstances, we may choose to not pursue enforcement due to a variety of reasons. in addition, competitors may avoid infringement by designing around our intellectual property rights or by developing non-infringing competing technologies. intellectual property rights and our ability to enforce them may be unavailable or limited in some countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share and 20 table of contents could result in lost revenues to the company. furthermore, some of our intellectual property is licensed to others, which allows them to compete with us using that intellectual property. if we experience a significant cybersecurity attack or disruption in our it systems, our business, reputation, and operating results could be adversely affected. we rely on several centralized it systems to provide solutions and services, maintain financial records, retain sensitive data such as intellectual property, proprietary business information, and data related to customers, suppliers, and business partners, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. the ongoing maintenance and security of this information is pertinent to the success of our business operations and our strategic goals. despite our implementation of network security measures, our network may be vulnerable to cybersecurity attacks, computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions. our network security measures include, but are not limited to, the implementation of firewalls, antivirus protection, patches, log monitors, routine backups, offsite storage, network audits, and routine updates and modifications. despite our efforts to create these security barriers, we may not be able to keep pace as new threats emerge and it is virtually impossible for us to entirely eliminate this risk. cybersecurity attacks are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, operating results and financial condition, and no assurance can be given that our efforts to reduce the risk of such attacks will be successful. in addition, our it systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophes or other unforeseen events. such events could result in the disruption of business processes, network degradation and system downtime, along with the potential that a third party will exploit our critical assets such as intellectual property, proprietary business information and data related to our customers, suppliers and business partners. to the extent that such disruptions occur, our customers and partners may lose confidence in our solutions and we may lose business or brand reputation, resulting in a material and adverse effect on our business operating results and financial condition. we are or will be subject to ongoing tax examinations of our tax returns by the irs and other tax authorities. an adverse outcome of any such audit or examination by the irs or other tax authority could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are or will be subject to ongoing tax examinations of our tax returns by the irs and other tax authorities in various jurisdictions. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from ongoing tax examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. these assessments can require considerable estimates and judgments. intercompany transactions associated with the sale of inventory, services, intellectual property and cost sharing arrangements are complex and affect our tax liabilities. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in multiple jurisdictions. the outcomes of these tax examinations could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. due to the complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters related to operations may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued. our operations may be adversely impacted by changes in our business mix or changes in the tax legislative landscape. our effective tax rate may be adversely impacted by, among other things, changes in the mix of our earnings among countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation allowance of deferred tax assets, and changes in tax laws. we cannot give any assurance as to what our effective tax rate will be in the future because, among other things, there is uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate. changes in tax laws, such as tax reform in the united states or changes in tax laws resulting from the organization for economic co-operation and development's ( oecd ) multi-jurisdictional plan of action to address base erosion and profit shifting and the taxation of the digital economy could impact our effective tax rate. if tax laws or incentives change or cease to be in effect, our income taxes could increase significantly. we are subject to federal, state, and local taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. we devote significant resources to evaluating our tax positions and our worldwide provision for taxes. our financial results and tax treatment are susceptible to changes in tax, accounting, and other laws, regulations, principles, and interpretations in the united states and in other jurisdictions where we do business. with the rise of economic and political policies that favor domestic interests, it is possible that more countries will enact tax laws that either increase the tax rates, or reduce or change the tax incentives available to multinational companies like ours. upon a change in tax laws in any territory where we do significant business, such as the u.s., the european union, or singapore, we may not be able to maintain our current tax rate or qualify for or maintain the benefits of any tax incentives offered, to the extent such incentives are offered. we currently benefit from tax incentives extended to certain of our foreign subsidiaries to encourage investment or employment, the most significant of which being singapore. the singapore tax incentives require that specific conditions be satisfied, which 21 table of contents include achieving thresholds of employment, ownership of certain assets, as well as specific types of investment activities within singapore. based on the current tax environment, we believe that we will satisfy such conditions in the future as needed, but cannot guarantee that the tax environment will not change or that such conditions will be satisfied. our singapore tax incentives are due for renewal in fiscal 2024, but we cannot guarantee that singapore will not revoke the tax incentives earlier. our taxes could increase if the existing singapore incentives are not renewed upon revocation or expiration. we cannot guarantee that we will qualify for any new incentive regime that may exist in fiscal 2024, or that such conditions will be satisfied. if we cannot or do not wish to satisfy all or portions of the tax incentives conditions, we may lose the related tax incentives and could be required to refund the benefits that the tax incentives previously provided. as a result, our effective tax rate could be higher than it would have been had we maintained the benefits of the tax incentives and could harm our operating results. our business will suffer if we are not able to retain and hire key personnel. our future success depends partly on the continued service of our key research, engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing, executive and administrative personnel, including personnel joining our company through acquisitions. the markets in which we operate are dynamic, and we may need to respond with reorganizations, workforce reductions and site closures from time to time. we believe our pay levels are competitive within the regions that we operate. however, there is also intense competition for certain highly technical specialties in geographic areas in which we operate, and it may become more difficult to retain key employees. if we fail to retain and hire a sufficient number of these personnel, we may not be able to meet key objectives, such as launching effective product innovations and meeting financial goals, and maintain or expand our business. if we suffer a loss to our factories, facilities or distribution system due to a catastrophic event, our operations could be significantly harmed. our factories, facilities and distribution system are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, terrorism or other natural or man-made disasters. in particular, several of our facilities could be subject to a catastrophic loss caused by earthquake or other natural disasters due to their locations. for example, our production facilities, headquarters and laboratories in california and our production facilities in japan are all located in areas with above-average seismic activity. if any of these facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. if such a disruption were to occur, we could breach our agreements, our reputation could be harmed and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. in addition, since we have consolidated our manufacturing facilities, we are more likely to experience an interruption to our operations in the event of a catastrophe in any one location. although we carry insurance for property damage and business interruption, we do not carry insurance or financial reserves for interruptions or potential losses arising from earthquakes or terrorism. also, our third-party insurance coverage will vary from time to time in both type and amount depending on availability, cost and our decision with respect to risk retention. economic conditions and uncertainties in global markets may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain third-party insurance. if our third-party insurance coverage is adversely affected, or to the extent we have elected to self-insure, we may be at a greater risk that our operations will be harmed by a catastrophic loss. if we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with certain regulations, we may be subject to substantial negative financial consequences and civil or criminal penalties. we and our customers are subject to various significant international, federal, state and local regulations, including, but not limited to, health and safety, packaging, data privacy, product content, labor and import/export regulations. these regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. we may be required to incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations or to remedy violations of these regulations. any failure by us to comply with applicable government regulations could also result in cessation of our operations or portions of our operations, high financial penalties, product recalls or impositions of fines, and restrictions on our ability to carry on or expand our operations. if demand for our solutions is adversely affected or our costs increase, our business would suffer. in response to changes in data privacy regulations, such as the general data protection regulation ( gdpr ) in the european union, which became effective on may 25, 2018, we are modifying our data handling practices and devoting resources to keeping up with the changing regulatory environment on data privacy in the jurisdictions where we do business. new laws, amendments, or interpretations of regulations, industry standards, and contractual obligations relating to privacy or data may require us to incur additional costs and restrict our business operations. if we fail to comply with gdpr or other data privacy regulation, we may be subject to significant financial fines and civil or criminal penalties, and may suffer high damage to our reputation or brand, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. 22 table of contents in addition, our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, like the international standards organization, as well as regulation by other agencies such as the u.s. federal communications commission. we also must comply with work safety rules. if we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our businesses could be harmed. failure to comply with anti-corruption laws could adversely affect our business and result in financial penalties. because we have extensive international operations, we must comply with complex foreign and u.s. laws and regulations, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, and anti-competition regulations. although we actively maintain policies and procedures designed to ensure ongoing compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate these policies and procedures. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, restrictions on our business conduct and on our ability to offer our solutions in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our brand, ability to attract and retain employees, international operations, business and operating results. our business and financial results may be adversely affected by various legal and regulatory proceedings. we are subject to legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims in the normal course of business and could become subject to additional claims in the future, some of which could be material. the outcome of existing proceedings, lawsuits and claims may differ from our expectations because the outcomes of litigation are often difficult to reliably predict. various factors or developments can lead us to change current estimates of liabilities and related insurance receivables where applicable, or permit us to make such estimates for matters previously not susceptible to reasonable estimates, such as a significant judicial ruling or judgment, a significant settlement, significant regulatory developments or changes in applicable law. a future adverse ruling, settlement or unfavorable development could result in charges that could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. our internal controls may be determined to be ineffective, which may adversely affect investor confidence in our company, the value of our stock, and our access to capital. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 requires us to furnish a report by management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, among other things. we are devoting significant resources and time to comply with such internal control over financial reporting requirements. however, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we design, implement and maintain adequate control over our financial processes and reporting in the future, especially in the context of acquisitions of other businesses. any difficulties in the assimilation of acquired businesses into our control system could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock or on our access to capital, or cause us to be subject to investigation or sanctions by the sec. adverse conditions in the global banking industry and credit markets may adversely impact the value of our cash investments or impair our liquidity. our cash and cash equivalents are invested or held in a mix of money market funds, time deposit accounts and bank demand deposit accounts. disruptions in the financial markets may, in some cases, result in an inability to access assets such as money market funds that traditionally have been viewed as highly liquid. any failure of our counterparty financial institutions or funds in which we have invested may adversely impact our cash and cash equivalent positions and, in turn, our results and financial condition. future investment returns on pension assets may be lower than expected or interest rates may decline, requiring us to make significant additional cash contributions to our future plans. we sponsor several defined benefit pension plans that cover many of our salaried and hourly employees. the federal pension protection act of 2006 requires that certain capitalization levels be maintained in each of the u.s. plans, and there may be similar funding requirements in the plans outside the united states. because it is unknown what the investment return on and the fair value of our pension assets will be in future years or what interest rates and discount rates may be at any point in time, no assurances can be given that applicable law will not require us to make future material plan contributions. any such contributions could adversely affect our financial condition. environmental contamination from past operations could subject us to unreimbursed costs and could harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the properties involved, and environmental contamination caused by ongoing operations could subject us to substantial liabilities in the future. some of our properties are undergoing remediation by hp inc. ("hp") for subsurface contaminations that were known at the time of agilent's separation from hp in 1999. in connection with agilent's separation from hp, hp and agilent entered into an agreement pursuant to which hp agreed to retain the liability for this subsurface contamination, perform the required remediation and indemnify agilent with respect to claims arising out of that contamination. agilent has assigned its rights and obligations 23 table of contents under this agreement to keysight in respect of facilities transferred to us in the separation. as a result, hp will have access to a limited number of our properties to perform remediation. although hp agreed to minimize interference with on-site operations at such properties, remediation activities and subsurface contamination may require us to incur unreimbursed costs and could harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the properties. in connection with the separation, agilent will indemnify us directly for any liabilities related thereto. we cannot be sure that hp will continue to fulfill its remediation obligations or that agilent will continue to fulfill its indemnification obligations. in connection with the separation from agilent, agilent also agreed to indemnify us for any liability associated with contamination from past operations at all properties transferred from agilent to keysight. we cannot be sure that agilent will fulfill its indemnification obligations. our current manufacturing processes involve the use of substances regulated under various international, federal, state and local laws governing the environment. as a result, we may become subject to liabilities for environmental contamination, and these liabilities may be substantial. although our policy is to apply strict standards for environmental protection at our sites inside and outside the united states, even if the sites outside the united states are not subject to regulations imposed by foreign governments, we may not be aware of all conditions that could subject us to liability. risks related to our common stock our share price may fluctuate significantly. our common stock is listed on nyse under the ticker symbol keys. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including but not limited to: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to factors related to our business; success or failure of our business strategy; our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; our ability to obtain third-party financing as needed; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock; changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; the operating and share price performance of other comparable companies; investor perception of our company; natural or other disasters that investors believe may affect us; overall market fluctuations; results from any material litigation or government investigations; changes in laws or regulations affecting our business; and general economic conditions and other external factors. stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. in addition, when the market price of a company's shares drops significantly, shareholders often institute securities class action lawsuits against the company. a lawsuit against us could cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of management and other resources. we do not currently pay dividends on our common stock. we do not currently pay dividends on our common stock. the payment of any dividends in the future, and the timing and amount thereof, to our stockholders fall within the discretion of our board of directors. the board's decisions regarding the payment of dividends will depend on many factors, such as our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, debt service obligations, restrictive covenants in our debt, industry practice, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors that the board deems relevant. we cannot guarantee that we will pay a dividend in the future or continue to pay any dividends if we commence paying dividends. 24 table of contents certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and of delaware law, may prevent or delay an acquisition of the company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain, and delaware law contains, provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. these provisions include but are not limited to: the inability of our shareholders to call a special meeting; the inability of our shareholders to act without a meeting of shareholders; rules regarding how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings; the right of our board to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval; the division of our board of directors into three classes of directors, with each class serving a staggered three-year term, and this classified board provision could have the effect of making the replacement of incumbent directors more time consuming and difficult; a provision that shareholders may only remove directors with cause; the ability of our directors, and not shareholders, to fill vacancies on our board of directors; and the requirement that the affirmative vote of shareholders holding at least 80 percent of our voting stock is required to amend certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation (relating to the number, term and removal of our directors, the filling of our board vacancies, the advance notice to be given for nominations for elections of directors, the calling of special meetings of shareholders, shareholder action by written consent, the ability of the board of directors to amend the bylaws, elimination of liability of directors to the extent permitted by delaware law, exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders and amendments of the certificate of incorporation) and certain provisions in our amended and restated bylaws (relating to the calling of special meetings of shareholders, the business that may be conducted or considered at annual or special meetings, the advance notice of shareholder business and nominations, shareholder action by written consent, the number, tenure, qualifications and removal of our directors, the filling of our board vacancies, director and officer indemnification and amendments of the bylaws). in addition, because we have not chosen to be exempt from section 203 of the delaware general corporation law (the "dgcl"), this provision could also delay or prevent a change of control that some shareholders may favor. section 203 provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with a person that acquires, more than 15 percent of the outstanding voting stock of a delaware corporation (an "interested stockholder") shall not engage in any business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which the person became an interested stockholder, unless (i) prior to such time, the board of directors of such corporation approved either the business combination or the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder; (ii) upon consummation of the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85 percent of the voting stock of such corporation at the time the transaction commenced (excluding for purposes of determining the voting stock outstanding (but not the outstanding voting stock owned by the interested stockholder) the voting stock owned by directors who are also officers or held in employee benefit plans in which the employees do not have a confidential right to tender or vote stock held by the plan); or (iii) on or subsequent to such time the business combination is approved by the board of directors of such corporation and authorized at a meeting of shareholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock of such corporation not owned by the interested stockholder. we believe these provisions will protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. these provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. however, these provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of the company and our shareholders. these provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates that the state courts in the state of delaware or, if no state court located within the state of delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the district of delaware, as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders, which could discourage lawsuits against the company and our directors and officers. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provide that unless the board of directors otherwise determines, the state courts in the state of delaware or, if no state court located within the state of delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the district of delaware, will be the sole and exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors or officers to the company or our shareholders, any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors or officers arising pursuant to any provision of the dgcl or keysight's 25 table of contents amended and restated certificate of incorporation or bylaws, or any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors or officers governed by the internal affairs doctrine. this exclusive forum provision may limit the ability of our shareholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum that such shareholders find favorable for disputes with us or our directors or officers, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors and officers. risks related to the acquisition of ixia we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of ixia or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. we may also encounter significant unexpected difficulties in integrating the two businesses. our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of ixia (the "merger") will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate our and ixia's businesses. the combination of two independent businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. as a result, we will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating ixia's business practices and operations with our existing business practices and operations. the integration process may disrupt the businesses and, if implemented ineffectively or if impacted by unforeseen negative economic or market conditions or other factors, we may not realize the full anticipated benefits of the merger. our failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating the two businesses to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, our activities and could adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, the overall integration of the businesses may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer relationships, and diversion of management's attention. the difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include but are not limited to: the diversion of management's attention to integration matters; difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from combining ixia's business with our business; difficulties entering new markets or manufacturing in new geographies where we have no or limited direct prior experience; difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; difficulties in the assimilation of employees; difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company; successfully managing relationships with our strategic partners and supplier and customer base; and challenges in maintaining existing, and establishing new, business relationships. many of these factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially impact the business, financial condition and our results of operations. in addition, even if the operations of our business and ixia's business are integrated successfully, we may not realize the full benefits of the merger, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that we expect. these benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. furthermore, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses. additionally, we may record significant goodwill and other assets as a result of acquisitions or investments, and we may be required to incur impairment charges, which could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. all of these factors could decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the merger and negatively impact us. as a result, we cannot be certain that the combination of our and ixia's businesses will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated from the merger. risks related to the spin-off from agilent we are subject to continuing contingent liabilities of agilent. after our spin-off from agilent on november 1, 2014, there are several significant areas where the liabilities of agilent may become our obligations. for example, under the internal revenue code and the related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of the agilent u.s. consolidated group during a taxable period or portion of a taxable period ending on or before the effective time of the distribution is severally liable for the u.s. federal income tax liability of the entire agilent u.s. consolidated group for that taxable period. consequently, if agilent is unable to pay the consolidated u.s. federal income tax liability for a prior period, we could be required to pay the entire amount of such tax, which could be substantial and in excess of the amount allocated to it as agreed between us and agilent at the time of separation. other provisions of federal law establish similar liability for other matters, including laws governing tax-qualified pension plans, as well as other contingent liabilities. there could be significant liability if the distribution is determined to be a taxable transaction. a condition to the spin-off is that agilent received an opinion of baker &amp; mckenzie llp, tax counsel to agilent, regarding the qualification of the separation and the distribution as a reorganization within the meaning of sections 355(a) and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code. the opinion relies on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from agilent and keysight, including 26 table of contents those regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters. if any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not satisfied, agilent and its shareholders may not be able to rely on the opinion, and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. notwithstanding the opinion of tax counsel, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion. if the distribution were determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, agilent and its shareholders that are subject to u.s. federal income tax could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. for example, if the distribution failed to qualify for tax-free treatment, agilent would for u.s. federal income tax purposes be treated as if it had sold the keysight common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and agilent's shareholders, who are subject to u.s. federal income tax, would be treated as receiving a taxable distribution in an amount equal to the fair market value of the keysight common stock received in the distribution. in addition, if the separation and distribution failed to qualify for tax-free treatment under federal, state and local tax law and/or foreign tax law, agilent and keysight could each incur significant tax liabilities under u.s. federal, state, local and/or foreign tax law. under the agreement between agilent and keysight pertaining to tax matters, as finalized at the time of separation, we are generally required to indemnify agilent against taxes incurred by agilent that arise as a result of our taking or failing to take, as the case may be, certain actions that result in the distribution failing to meet the requirements of a tax-free distribution under section 355 of the code. under the agreement between agilent and keysight, as finalized at the time of separation, we may also be required to indemnify agilent for other contingent tax liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our financial position. 27 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk at various times, we use derivative financial instruments to limit exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. because derivative instruments are used solely as hedges and not for speculative trading purposes, fluctuations in the market values of such derivative instruments are generally offset by reciprocal changes in the underlying economic exposures that the instruments are intended to hedge. for further discussion of derivative financial instruments, refer to note 13, "derivatives." currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries. we hedge future cash flows denominated in currencies other than the functional currency using sales and expense forecasts up to twelve months in advance. our exposure to exchange rate risks is managed on an enterprise-wide basis. this strategy utilizes derivative financial instruments, including option and forward contracts, to hedge certain foreign currency exposures with the intent of offsetting gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures with gains and losses on the derivative contracts hedging them. we do not currently and do not intend to utilize derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. our operations generate non-functional currency cash flows such as revenue, third-party vendor payments and inter-company payments. in anticipation of these foreign currency cash flows and in view of the volatility of the currency market, we enter into such foreign exchange contracts as described above to substantially mitigate our currency risk. approximately 76 percent in 2018 and 71 percent of our revenues in each of 2017 and 2016 were generated in u.s. dollars. we performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10 percent adverse movement in foreign exchange rates to the hedging contracts and the underlying exposures described above. as of october 31, 2018 and 2017, the analysis indicated that these hypothetical market movements would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. interest rate risk as of october 31, 2018, we had $1,800 million in principal amount of senior debt outstanding. the carrying amount of the fixed-rate senior notes was $1,790 million, and the related fair value based on quoted prices was $1,802 million. a change in interest rates on long-term debt impacts the fair value of the company's fixed-rate long-term debt but not the company's earnings or cash flow because the interest on such debt is fixed. generally, the fair market value of fixed-rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. as of october 31, 2018, a hypothetical 10 percent increase in interest rates would have decreased the fair value of the company's fixed-rate long-term debt by approximately $37 million. however, since the company currently has no plans to repurchase its outstanding fixed-rate instruments before their maturity nor do the investors in our fixed-rate debt obligations have the right to demand we pay off these obligations prior to maturity, the impact of market interest rate fluctuations on the company's fixed-rate long-term debt does not affect the company's results of operations or stockholders' equity. 49 table of contentsrisk factors. environmental our r&amp;d, manufacturing and distribution operations involve the use of hazardous substances and are regulated under international, federal, state and local laws governing health and safety and the environment. we apply strict standards for protection of the environment and occupational health and safety to sites inside and outside the united states, even if not subject to regulation imposed by foreign governments. we believe that our properties and operations at our facilities comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and occupational health and safety laws. however, the risk of environmental liabilities cannot be completely eliminated, and there can be no assurance that the application of environmental and health and safety laws will not require us to incur significant expenditures. we are also regulated under a number of international, federal, state and local laws regarding recycling, product packaging and product content requirements. the environmental, product content/disposal and recycling laws are gradually becoming more stringent and may cause us to incur significant expenditures in the future. some of our properties are undergoing remediation by hp inc. ("hp") for subsurface contaminations that were known at the time of agilent's separation from hp in 1999. in connection with agilent's separation from hp, hp and agilent entered into an agreement pursuant to which hp agreed to retain the liability for this subsurface contamination, perform the required remediation and indemnify agilent with respect to claims arising out of that contamination. agilent has assigned its rights and obligations under this agreement to keysight in respect of facilities transferred to keysight in our separation from agilent on november 1, 2014 (the "separation"). as a result, hp has access to a limited number of our properties to perform remediation. although hp agreed to minimize interference with on-site operations at such properties, remediation activities and subsurface contamination may require us to incur unreimbursed costs and could harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the properties. in connection with the separation, agilent will indemnify us directly for any liabilities related thereto. we cannot be sure that hp will continue to fulfill its remediation obligations or that agilent will continue to fulfill its indemnification obligations. in connection with the separation, agilent also agreed to indemnify us for any liability associated with contamination from past operations at all properties transferred from agilent to us. we cannot be sure that agilent will fulfill its indemnification obligations. we maintain a comprehensive environmental site liability insurance policy that may cover certain clean-up costs or legal claims related to environmental contamination. this policy covers specified active, inactive and divested locations. acquisition of material assets on april 18, 2017, pursuant to the terms of an agreement and plan of merger dated january 30, 2017, between keysight and ixia (the "merger agreement"), we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of ixia for $1,622 million, net of $72 million of cash acquired, pursuant to an exchange offer for $19.65 per share (the "merger consideration"). 15 table of contents executive officers of the registrant the names of our executive officers and their ages, titles and biographies as of december 1, 2019 appear below: ronald s. nersesian , 60, has served as president and chief executive officer of keysight since december 2013 and, prior to the separation, served as executive vice president of agilent. mr. nersesian served as president of agilent from november 2012 to september 2013 and as chief operating officer, agilent from november 2011 to september 2013. from november 2011 to november 2012, mr. nersesian served as agilent's executive vice president and chief operating officer. mr. nersesian serves on the board of directors of trimble inc. mr. nersesian has served as a director on our board of directors since our separation from agilent, and as chairman of our board of directors since november 2019. neil dougherty , 50, has served as senior vice president and chief financial officer of keysight since december 2013 and, prior to the separation, served as vice president and treasurer of agilent since 2012. he served as senior director in agilent's corporate development group from 2010 to 2012, and from 2006 to 2010, he served as agilent's assistant treasurer. jay alexander, 56, has served as senior vice president and chief technology officer of keysight since may 2014. prior to the separation, he served as vice president and general manager for the oscilloscope and protocol division of agilent since october 2009. satish dhanasekaran, 47, has served as senior vice president and president of the communications solutions group since july 2017. previously, he served as keysight's vice president and general manager, wireless devices and operators business segment, as well as a variety of customer-facing leadership positions. ingrid estrada , 55, has served as senior vice president, chief people &amp; administrative officer and chief of staff since august 2017. previously, she served as keysight's senior vice president, human resources from december 2013 until august 2017. prior to the separation, she served as vice president and general manager of global sourcing of agilent from 2011. soon chai gooi , 58, has served as senior vice president and president of the electronic industrial solutions group since november 2015. from december 2013 to november 2015, mr. gooi served as senior vice president of order fulfillment and infrastructure for keysight. prior to the separation, mr. gooi served as president, from november 2012 to september 2013, and as senior vice president, from december 2011 to november 2012, of agilent's order fulfillment and supply chain. jeffrey li , 50, has served as senior vice president, general counsel, and secretary since july 2019. before that, mr. li served as vice president, assistant general counsel, and assistant secretary, and prior to the separation, as senior counsel of agilent since 2011. john page, 55, has served as senior vice president and president of global services since november 2015 and most recently served as vice president of business finance of keysight from february 2014 to november 2015. prior to joining keysight, mr. page served as the chief financial officer of nanosys, inc. from 2010 to 2014. john skinner , 57, has served as vice president, corporate controller and principal accounting officer of keysight since december 2013, and prior to the separation, mr. skinner served as vice president, agilent and controller of global infrastructure and enterprise financial planning and analysis from april 2012 to december 2013. mark wallace, 54 , has served as senior vice president of worldwide sales since november 2016. from november 2014 to november 2016, mr. wallace served as vice president and general manager of americas field operations and, prior to the separation, as americas field operations vice president of agilent's electronic measurement group since november 2011. investor information we are subject to the informational requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934 ( exchange act ). therefore, we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). the sec maintains an internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers. you can access financial and other information at our investor relations website at www.investor.keysight.com. we make available, free of charge, copies of our annual report on form 10-k, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the sec. our corporate governance guidelines, the charters of our audit and finance committee, compensation committee, nominating and corporate governance committee, executive committee as well as our standards of business conduct are 16 table of contents available on our website at www.investor.keysight.com under corporate governance. these items are also available in print to any stockholder in the united states and canada who requests them by calling (800) 829-4444. this information is also available by writing to the company at the address on the cover of this annual report on form 10-k. item 1a. risk factors risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect future results risks related to our business failure to introduce successful new solutions and services in a timely manner to address increased competition, rapid technological changes, and changing industry standards could result in our solutions and services becoming obsolete. we generally sell our solutions in industries that are characterized by increased competition through frequent new solution and service introductions, rapid technological changes and changing industry standards. in addition, many of the markets in which we operate are seasonal and cyclical. without the timely introduction of new solutions, services and enhancements, our solutions and services will become technologically obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. our ability to offer new solutions and services and to deploy them in a timely manner depend on several factors, including but not limited to our ability to: properly identify customer needs; innovate and develop new technologies, services and applications; successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner; manufacture and deliver our solutions in sufficient volumes and on time; differentiate our offerings from our competitors' offerings; price our solutions competitively; anticipate our competitors' development of new solutions, services or technological innovations; and control product quality in our manufacturing process. our future operating results may fluctuate significantly if our investments in innovative technologies are not as profitable as we anticipate. on a regular basis, we review the existing technologies available in the market and identify strategic new technologies to develop and invest in. we are currently devoting significant resources to the 5g technology and other new technologies in the automotive, battery, internet of things, and mobile industries. we are investing in r&amp;d, developing relationships with customers and suppliers, and re-directing our corporate and operational resources to grow within these innovative technologies. our income could be harmed if we fail to gain sufficient market share, if demand for our solutions is lower than we expect, or if our income related to the innovative technologies is lower than we anticipate. for example, when the 5g standards are published, we may not be able to produce a satisfactory return on investment if our strategic vision and the resources that we are spending on developing our presence in the 5g technology industry turn out to be misaligned with such standards. we provide solutions for the design, development, and manufacturing stages of our customers' workflow. our customers who currently use our solutions in one stage of their workflow may not use our solutions in other aspects of their manufacturing process. uncertainty in general economic conditions may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our business is sensitive to negative changes in general economic conditions, both inside and outside the united states. global and regional economic uncertainty or depression may impact our business, resulting in: reduced demand for our solutions, delays in the shipment of orders or increases in order cancellations; increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories; increased price pressure for our solutions and services; and greater risk of impairment to the value, and a detriment to the liquidity, of our future investment portfolio. 17 table of contents in addition, global and regional macroeconomic developments, such as increased unemployment, decreased income, reduced access to credit, volatility in capital markets, decreased liquidity, uncertain or destabilizing national election results in the u.s., europe, and asia, and negative changes or volatility in general economic conditions in the u.s., europe, and asia could negatively affect our ability to conduct business in those territories. financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers and customers, including distributors, due to economic volatility or negative changes could result in product delays and inventory issues. economic risks related to accounts receivable could result in delays in collection and greater bad debt expense. our operating results and financial condition could be harmed if the markets into which we sell our solutions decline or do not grow as anticipated. visibility into our markets is limited. our quarterly sales and operating results are highly dependent on the volume and timing of technology-related spending and orders received during the fiscal quarter, which are difficult to forecast and may be cancelled by our customers. in addition, our revenues and earnings forecasts for future fiscal quarters are often based on the expected seasonality or cyclicality of our markets. however, the markets we serve do not always experience the seasonality or cyclicality that we expect. any decline in our customers' markets would likely result in a reduction in demand for our solutions and services. the broader semiconductor market is one of the drivers for our business, and therefore, a decrease in the semiconductor market could harm our business. also, if our customers' markets decline, we may not be able to collect on outstanding amounts due to us. such declines could harm our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price, and could limit our profitability. also, in such an environment, pricing pressures could intensify. since a significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed in nature due to sales, r&amp;d and manufacturing costs, if we were unable to respond quickly enough, these pricing pressures could further reduce our operating margins. failure to adjust our purchases due to changing market conditions or failure to estimate our customers' demand could adversely affect our income. our income could be harmed if we are unable to adjust our purchases to market fluctuations, including those caused by the seasonal or cyclical nature of the markets in which we operate. the sale of our solutions and services are dependent, to a large degree, on customers whose industries are subject to seasonal or cyclical trends in the demand for their products. for example, the consumer electronics market is particularly volatile, making demand difficult to anticipate. during a market upturn, we may not be able to purchase sufficient supplies or components to meet increasing product demand, which could materially affect our results. in the past, we have seen a shortage of parts for some of our products. in addition, some of the parts that require custom design are not readily available from alternate suppliers due to their unique design or the length of time necessary for design work. should a supplier cease manufacturing such a component, we would be forced to re-engineer our solution. in addition to discontinuing parts, suppliers may also extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. in order to secure components for the production of products, we may continue to enter into non-cancellable purchase commitments with vendors, or at times make advance payments to suppliers, which could impact our ability to adjust our inventory to declining market demands. prior commitments of this type have resulted in an excess of parts when demand for electronic products has decreased. if demand for our solutions is less than we expect, we may experience additional excess and obsolete inventories and be forced to incur additional charges. economic and political policies favoring national interests could adversely affect our results of operations. nationalistic economic policies and political trends in the united states, the united kingdom, the european union, singapore, malaysia and china among other countries, such as opposition to globalization and free trade, sanctions or trade restrictions, withdrawal from or re-negotiation of global trade agreements, tax policies that favor domestic industries and interests, the anticipated exit of the united kingdom from the european union (known as brexit), the distancing or potential exit of other countries from the european union, and other similar actions may result in increased transaction costs, reduced ability to hire employees, reduced access to supplies and materials, reduced demand or access to customers in international markets, and inability to conduct our operations as they have been conducted historically. each of these factors may adversely affect our business. international trade disputes and increased tariffs between the united states and such jurisdictions could substantially change our expectations and ability to operate in such jurisdictions as we have done historically. many of our suppliers, vendors, customers, partners, and other entities with whom we do business have strong ties to doing business in china. their ability to supply materials to us, buy products or services from us, or otherwise work with us is affected by their ability to do business in china. if the u.s.'s relationship with china deteriorates or results in trade disputes, trade protection measures, retaliatory actions, tariffs and increased barriers, policies that favor domestic industries, or increased import or export licensing requirements or restrictions, then our deployment of resources in jurisdictions affected by such measures could be misaligned and our operations may be adversely affected due to such changes in the economic and political ecosystem in which our suppliers, vendors, customers, partners, and other entities with whom we do business operate. 18 table of contents a decreased demand for our customers' products or trade restrictions could adversely affect our results of operations. our business depends on our customers' ability to manufacture, design, and sell their products in the marketplace. international trade disputes affecting our customers could adversely affect our business. tariffs on imports to or from china could increase the cost of our customers' components and raw materials, which could make our customers' products and services more expensive and could reduce demand for our customers' products. protectionist and retaliatory trade measures by either china or the united states could limit our customers' ability to sell their products and services and could reduce demand of our customers' products. our customers and other entities in our customer chain could decide to take actions in response to international trade disputes that we could not foresee. a decrease in demand or significant change in operations from our customers due to international trade disputes could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in addition to the above, our customers and suppliers could become subject to u.s. export restrictions and sanctions, such as, being added to the u.s. department of commerce's lists of parties of concern and having u.s. export privileges denied or suspended. in the event that a customer or supplier of ours becomes subject to such sanctions, we will suspend our business with such customer or supplier. because of the increasingly tense political and economic relationship between the united states and china, such sanctions could be imposed with little notice, which could leave us without an adequate alternative solution to compensate for our inability to continue to do business with such customer or supplier. some of our suppliers and customers in the supply chain are working on unique solutions and products in the market, and it may be difficult if not impossible to replace them, especially with short notice. we cannot predict what impact future sanctions could have on our customers or suppliers, and therefore, our business. any export restrictions or sanctions and any tariffs or other trade restriction imposed on our customers or suppliers could adversely affect our financial condition and business. economic, political, and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our results of operations. because we sell our solutions worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. we anticipate that revenue from international operations will continue to represent a majority of our total revenue. however, there can be no assurances that our international sales will continue at existing levels or grow in accordance with our effort to increase foreign market penetration. in addition, many of our employees, contract manufacturers, suppliers, job functions and manufacturing facilities are located outside the united states. accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including but not limited to: changes in a specific country's or region's political, economic or other conditions, including but not limited to changes that favor national interests and economic volatility; negative consequences from changes in tax laws; difficulty in protecting intellectual property; interruption to transportation flows for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; local competition; differing labor regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; inadequate local infrastructure; potential incidences of corruption and fraudulent business practices; and volatile geopolitical turmoil, including popular uprisings, regional conflicts, terrorism, and war. we centralize most of our accounting processes at two locations: india and malaysia. these processes include general accounting, inventory cost accounting, accounts payable and accounts receivables functions. if conditions change in those countries, it may adversely affect operations, including impairing our ability to pay our suppliers. our results of operations, as well as our liquidity, may be adversely affected and possible delays may occur in reporting financial results. 19 table of contents further, even if we are able to successfully manage the risks of international operations, our business may be adversely affected if our business partners are not able to successfully manage similar risks. dependence on contract manufacturing and outsourcing other portions of our supply chain may adversely affect our ability to bring solutions to market and damage our reputation. dependence on outsourced information technology and other administrative functions may impair our ability to operate effectively. as part of our efforts to streamline operations and to cut costs, we outsource aspects of our manufacturing processes and other functions and continue to evaluate additional outsourcing. if our contract manufacturers or other outsourcers fail to perform their obligations in a timely manner or at satisfactory quality levels, our ability to bring solutions to market and our reputation could suffer. for example, during a market upturn, our contract manufacturers may be unable to meet our demand requirements, which may preclude us from fulfilling our customers' orders on a timely basis. the ability of these manufacturers to perform is largely outside of our control. additionally, changing or replacing our contract manufacturers or other outsourcees could cause disruptions or delays. in addition, we outsource significant portions of our information technology ("it") and other administrative functions. since it is critical to our operations, any failure of our it providers to perform could impair our ability to operate effectively. in addition to the risks outlined above, problems with manufacturing or it outsourcing could result in lower revenues and unrealized efficiencies, and could impact our results of operations and stock price. much of our outsourcing takes place in developing countries and, as a result, may be subject to geopolitical uncertainty. our operating results may suffer if our manufacturing capacity does not match the demand for our solutions. because we cannot immediately adapt our production capacity and related cost structures to rapidly changing market conditions, when demand does not meet our expectations, our manufacturing capacity will likely exceed our production requirements. during a general market upturn or an upturn in our business, we cannot increase our manufacturing capacity to meet product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner, which could lead to order cancellations, contract breaches or indemnification obligations. this inability could materially and adversely limit our ability to improve our income, margin and operating results. by contrast, if, during an economic downturn, we had excess manufacturing capacity, then our fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity would adversely affect our income, margins and operating results. key customers or large orders may expose us to additional business and legal risks that could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition . certain key customers have substantial purchasing power and leverage in negotiating contractual arrangements with us. these customers may demand contract terms that differ considerably from our standard terms and conditions. large orders may also include severe contractual liabilities for us if we fail to provide the quantity and quality of product at the required delivery times. while we attempt to contractually limit our potential liability under such contracts, we may have to agree to some or all of these types of provisions to secure these orders and to continue to grow our business. such actions expose us to significant additional risks, which could result in a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. industry consolidation and consolidation among our customer base may lead to increased competition and may harm our operating results. there is potential for industry consolidation in our markets. as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry, companies could be acquired or may be unable to continue operations. companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us. we believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors and could lead to more variability in our operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. furthermore, particularly in the communications market, rapid consolidation would lead to fewer customers, with the effect that loss of a major customer could have a material impact on results not anticipated in a customer marketplace composed of more numerous participants. additionally, if there is consolidation among our customer base, our customers may be able to command increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could adversely affect our profitability. in addition, if, as a result of increased leverage, customer pressures require us to reduce our pricing such that our gross margins are diminished, we could decide not to sell our solutions under such less favorable terms, which would decrease our revenue. consolidation among our customer base may also lead to reduced demand for our solutions, replacement of our products by the combined entity with those of our competitors and cancellations of orders, each of which could harm our operating results. 20 table of contents our acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, internal reorganizations and divestitures may result in financial results that are different than expected. in the normal course of business, we may engage in discussions with third parties relating to possible acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures. additionally, we occasionally make changes to our internal structure to align business products, services and solutions with market demands and to obtain cost synergies and operational efficiencies. as a result of such transactions, our financial results may differ from our own or the investment community's expectations in a given fiscal quarter, or over the long term. if market conditions or other factors lead us to change our strategic direction, we may not realize the expected value from such transactions or reorganizations. further, such third-party transactions often have post-closing arrangements, including, but not limited to, post-closing adjustments, transition services, escrows or indemnifications, the financial results of which can be difficult to predict. in addition, acquisitions and strategic alliances may require us to integrate a different company culture, management team, employees and business infrastructure into our existing operations without impacting the business operations of the newly acquired company. we may have difficulty developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company in a way that enhances performance and expands the markets of the newly acquired company. the acquired company may not enhance the performance of our businesses or product lines such that we do not realize the value from expected synergies. depending on the size and complexity of an acquisition, the successful integration of the entity depends on a variety of factors, including but not limited to: the achievement of anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from combining the acquired company; the scalability of production, manufacturing and marketing of products of a newly acquired company to broader adjacent markets; the ability to cohesively integrate operations, product definitions, price lists, delivery, and technical support for products and solutions of a newly acquired company into our existing operations; the compatibility of our infrastructure, operations, policies and organizations with those of the acquired company; the retention of key employees and/or customers; the management of facilities and employees in different geographic areas; and the management of relationships with our strategic partners, suppliers, and customer base. if we do not realize the expected benefits or synergies of such transactions, our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price could be negatively impacted. additionally, we may record significant goodwill and other assets as a result of acquisitions or investments, and we may be required to incur impairment charges, which could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. any inability to complete acquisitions on acceptable terms could negatively impact our growth rate and financial performance. our ability to grow revenues, earnings and cash flow depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate businesses at appropriate prices and realize anticipated synergies and business performance. appropriate targets for acquisition are difficult to identify and complete for a variety of reasons, including but not limited to, limited due diligence, high valuations, business and intellectual property evaluations, other interested parties, negotiations of the definitive documentation, satisfaction of closing conditions, the need to obtain antitrust or other regulatory approvals on acceptable terms, and availability of funding. the inability to close appropriate acquisitions on acceptable terms could adversely impact our growth rate, revenue, and financial performance. we may need additional financing in the future to meet our capital needs or to make opportunistic acquisitions, and such financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, if at all, and may be dilutive to existing shareholders. we may need to seek additional financing for our general corporate purposes. for example, we may need to increase our investment in r&amp;d activities or need funds to make acquisitions. we may be unable to obtain any desired additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. if adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our expansion, successfully develop or enhance solutions or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could negatively affect our business. if we finance acquisitions by issuing additional convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may experience share dilution, which could affect the market price of our stock. if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, our shareholders will experience dilution of their ownership interest. if we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to further limitations on our operations and ability to pay dividends due to restrictive covenants. 21 table of contents we have outstanding debt and may incur other debt in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. we currently have outstanding debt as well as availability to borrow under a revolving credit facility. we may borrow additional amounts in the future and use the proceeds from any future borrowing for general corporate purposes, future acquisitions, expansion of our business or repurchases of our outstanding shares of common stock. our incurrence of this debt, and increases in our aggregate levels of debt, may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition by, among other things: requiring a portion of our cash flow from operations to make interest payments on this debt; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; reducing the cash flow available to fund capital expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow our business; and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry. our current revolving credit facility and term loan imposes restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to create liens on our assets and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur indebtedness, and requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. in addition, the indenture governing our senior notes contains covenants that may adversely affect our ability to incur certain liens or engage in certain types of sale and leaseback transactions. if we breach any of the covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness could be declared immediately due and payable. if currency exchange rates fluctuate substantially in the future, our financial results could be adversely affected. a substantial amount of our solutions are priced and paid for in u.s. dollars, although many of our solutions are priced in local currencies and a significant amount of certain types of expenses, such as payroll, utilities, tax and marketing expenses, are paid in local currencies. our hedging programs are designed to reduce, but not entirely eliminate, within any given 12-month period, the impact of currency exchange rate movements, including those caused by currency controls, which could impact our business, operating results and financial condition by resulting in lower revenue or increased expenses. however, for expenses beyond a 12-month period, our hedging strategy will not mitigate our exchange rate risk. in addition, our currency hedging programs involve third-party financial institutions as counterparties. the weakening or failure of these counterparties may adversely affect our hedging programs and our financial condition through, among other things, a reduction in the number of available counterparties, increasingly unfavorable terms or the failure of counterparties to perform under hedging contracts. third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling solutions or services. third parties may claim that one or more of our solutions or services infringe their intellectual property rights. we analyze and take action in response to such claims on a case-by-case basis. any dispute or litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming due to the complexity of our technology and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation and could divert our management and key personnel from business operations. a claim of intellectual property infringement could cause us to enter into a costly or restrictive license agreement (which may not be available under acceptable terms, or at all), require us to redesign certain of our solutions (which would be costly and time-consuming) and/or subject us to significant damages or an injunction against the development and sale of certain solutions or services. in certain of our businesses, we rely on third-party intellectual property licenses, and we cannot ensure that these licenses will be available to us in the future on terms favorable to us or at all. third parties may infringe our intellectual property rights, and we may suffer competitive injury or expend significant resources enforcing our intellectual property rights. our success depends in part on our proprietary technology, including technology we obtained through acquisitions. we rely on various intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements, to establish our proprietary rights. if we do not enforce our intellectual property rights successfully, our competitive position may suffer, which could harm our operating results. our pending patent, copyright and trademark registration applications may not be allowed or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents, copyrights or trademarks. in addition, our patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not provide us with a significant competitive advantage. in preparation for the separation and distribution, we have applied for trademarks related to our new global brand name in various jurisdictions worldwide. any successful opposition 22 table of contents to our applications in material jurisdictions could impose material costs on us or make it more difficult to protect our brand. different jurisdictions vary widely in the level of protection and priority they give to trademark and other intellectual property rights. we may be required to spend significant resources monitoring our intellectual property rights, and we may or may not be able to detect infringement of such rights by third parties. our competitive position may be harmed if we cannot detect infringement and enforce our intellectual property rights in a timely manner, or at all. in some circumstances, we may choose to not pursue enforcement due to a variety of reasons. in addition, competitors may avoid infringement by designing around our intellectual property rights or by developing non-infringing competing technologies. intellectual property rights and our ability to enforce them may be unavailable or limited in some countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share and could result in lost revenues to the company. furthermore, some of our intellectual property is licensed to others, which allows them to compete with us using that intellectual property. if we experience a significant cybersecurity attack or disruption in our it systems, our business, reputation, and operating results could be adversely affected. we rely on several centralized it systems to provide solutions and services, maintain financial records, retain sensitive data such as intellectual property, proprietary business information, and data related to customers, suppliers, and business partners, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. the ongoing maintenance and security of this information is pertinent to the success of our business operations and our strategic goals. despite our implementation of network security measures, our network may be vulnerable to cybersecurity attacks, computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions. our network security measures include, but are not limited to, the implementation of firewalls, antivirus protection, patches, log monitors, routine backups, offsite storage, network audits, and routine updates and modifications. despite our efforts to create these security barriers, we may not be able to keep pace as new threats emerge and it is virtually impossible for us to entirely eliminate this risk. cybersecurity attacks are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, operating results and financial condition, and no assurance can be given that our efforts to reduce the risk of such attacks will be successful. in addition, our it systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication failures, user errors, implementation of new operational systems or software or upgrades to existing systems and software, or catastrophes or other unforeseen events. such events could result in the disruption of business processes, network degradation and system downtime, along with the potential that a third party will exploit our critical assets such as intellectual property, proprietary business information and data related to our customers, suppliers and business partners. further, such events could result in loss of revenue, loss of or reduction in purchase orders, inability to report financial information, litigation, regulatory fines and penalties, and other damage that could have a material impact on our business operations. to the extent that such disruptions occur, our customers and partners may lose confidence in our solutions and we may lose business or brand reputation, resulting in a material and adverse effect on our business operating results and financial condition. we are or will be subject to ongoing tax examinations of our tax returns by the irs and other tax authorities. an adverse outcome of any such audit or examination by the irs or other tax authority could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are or will be subject to ongoing tax examinations of our tax returns by the irs and other tax authorities in various jurisdictions. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from ongoing tax examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. these assessments can require considerable estimates and judgments. intercompany transactions associated with the sale of inventory, services, intellectual property and cost sharing arrangements are complex and affect our tax liabilities. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in multiple jurisdictions. the outcomes of these tax examinations could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. due to the complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters related to operations may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued. our operations may be adversely impacted by changes in our business mix or changes in the tax legislative landscape. our effective tax rate may be adversely impacted by, among other things, changes in the mix of our earnings among countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation allowance of deferred tax assets, and changes in tax laws. we cannot give any assurance as to what our effective tax rate will be in the future because, among other things, there is uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate. changes in tax laws, such as tax reform in the united states or changes in 23 table of contents tax laws resulting from the organization for economic co-operation and development's ( oecd ) multi-jurisdictional plan of action to address base erosion and profit shifting and the taxation of the digital economy could impact our effective tax rate. if tax laws or incentives change or cease to be in effect, our income taxes could increase significantly. we are subject to federal, state, and local taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. we devote significant resources to evaluating our tax positions and our worldwide provision for taxes. our financial results and tax treatment are susceptible to changes in tax, accounting, and other laws, regulations, principles, and interpretations in the united states and in other jurisdictions where we do business. with the rise of economic and political policies that favor domestic interests, it is possible that more countries will enact tax laws that either increase the tax rates, or reduce or change the tax incentives available to multinational companies like ours. upon a change in tax laws in any territory where we do significant business, such as the u.s., the european union, or singapore, we may not be able to maintain our current tax rate or qualify for or maintain the benefits of any tax incentives offered, to the extent such incentives are offered. we currently benefit from tax incentives extended to certain of our foreign subsidiaries to encourage investment or employment, the most significant of which being singapore. the singapore tax incentives require that specific conditions be satisfied, which include achieving thresholds of employment, ownership of certain assets, as well as specific types of investment activities within singapore. based on the current tax environment, we believe that we will satisfy such conditions in the future as needed, but cannot guarantee that the tax environment will not change or that such conditions will be satisfied. our singapore tax incentives are due for renewal in fiscal 2024, but we cannot guarantee that singapore will not revoke the tax incentives earlier. our taxes could increase if the existing singapore incentives are not renewed upon revocation or expiration. we cannot guarantee that we will qualify for any new incentive regime that may exist in fiscal 2024, or that such conditions will be satisfied. if we cannot or do not wish to satisfy all or portions of the tax incentives conditions, we may lose the related tax incentives and could be required to refund the benefits that the tax incentives previously provided. as a result, our effective tax rate could be higher than it would have been had we maintained the benefits of the tax incentives and could harm our operating results. our business will suffer if we are not able to retain and hire key personnel. our future success depends partly on the continued service of our key research, engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing, executive and administrative personnel, including personnel joining our company through acquisitions. the markets in which we operate are dynamic, and we may need to respond with reorganizations, workforce reductions and site closures from time to time. we believe our pay levels are competitive within the regions that we operate. however, there is also intense competition for certain highly technical specialties in geographic areas in which we operate, and it may become more difficult to retain key employees. if we fail to retain and hire a sufficient number of these personnel, we may not be able to meet key objectives, such as launching effective product innovations and meeting financial goals, and maintain or expand our business. if we suffer a loss to our factories, facilities or distribution system due to a catastrophic event, our operations could be significantly harmed. our factories, facilities and distribution system are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, terrorism or other natural or man-made disasters. in particular, several of our facilities could be subject to a catastrophic loss caused by earthquake or other natural disasters due to their locations. for example, our production facilities, headquarters and laboratories in california and our production facilities in japan are all located in areas with above-average seismic activity. if any of these facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. if such a disruption were to occur, we could breach our agreements, our reputation could be harmed and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. in addition, since we have consolidated our manufacturing facilities, we are more likely to experience an interruption to our operations in the event of a catastrophe in any one location. although we carry insurance for property damage and business interruption, we do not carry insurance or financial reserves for interruptions or potential losses arising from earthquakes or terrorism. also, our third-party insurance coverage will vary from time to time in both type and amount depending on availability, cost and our decision with respect to risk retention. economic conditions and uncertainties in global markets may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain third-party insurance. if our third-party insurance coverage is adversely affected, or to the extent we have elected to self-insure, we may be at a greater risk that our operations will be harmed by a catastrophic loss. if we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with certain regulations, we may be subject to substantial negative financial consequences and civil or criminal penalties. we and our customers are subject to various significant international, federal, state and local regulations, including, but not limited to, health and safety, packaging, data privacy, product content, labor and import/export regulations. these regulations are 24 table of contents complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. we may be required to incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations or to remedy violations of these regulations. any failure by us to comply with applicable government regulations could also result in cessation of our operations or portions of our operations, high financial penalties, product recalls or impositions of fines, and restrictions on our ability to carry on or expand our operations. if demand for our solutions is adversely affected or our costs increase, our business would suffer. we have developed internal data handling policies and practices to comply with the general data protection regulation ( gdpr ) in the european union and data privacy regulations similar to gdpr in other jurisdictions. our existing business strategy does not rely on aggregating or selling personally identifiable information, and as a general matter keysight does not process personally identifiable information on behalf of our customers. we devote resources to keep up with the changing regulatory environment on data privacy in the jurisdictions where we do business. despite our efforts, no assurance can be given that we will be compliant with data privacy regulations. new laws, amendments, or interpretations of regulations, industry standards, and contractual obligations relating to data privacy may require us to incur additional costs and restrict our business operations. if we fail to comply with gdpr or other data privacy regulation, we may be subject to significant financial fines and civil or criminal penalties, and may suffer damage to our reputation or brand, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. in addition, our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, like the international standards organization, as well as regulation by other agencies such as the u.s. federal communications commission. we also must comply with work safety rules. if we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our businesses could be harmed. failure to comply with anti-corruption laws could adversely affect our business and result in financial penalties. because we have extensive international operations, we must comply with complex foreign and u.s. laws and regulations, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, and anti-competition regulations. although we actively maintain policies and procedures designed to ensure ongoing compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate these policies and procedures. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, restrictions on our business conduct and on our ability to offer our solutions in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our brand, ability to attract and retain employees, international operations, business and operating results. our business and financial results may be adversely affected by various legal and regulatory proceedings. we are subject to legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims in the normal course of business and could become subject to additional claims in the future, some of which could be material. the outcome of existing proceedings, lawsuits and claims may differ from our expectations because the outcomes of litigation are often difficult to reliably predict. various factors or developments can lead us to change current estimates of liabilities and related insurance receivables where applicable, or permit us to make such estimates for matters previously not susceptible to reasonable estimates, such as a significant judicial ruling or judgment, a significant settlement, significant regulatory developments or changes in applicable law. a future adverse ruling, settlement or unfavorable development could result in charges that could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. our internal controls may be determined to be ineffective, which may adversely affect investor confidence in our company, the value of our stock, and our access to capital. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 requires us to furnish a report by management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, among other things. we are devoting significant resources and time to comply with such internal control over financial reporting requirements. however, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we design, implement and maintain adequate control over our financial processes and reporting in the future, especially in the context of acquisitions of other businesses. any difficulties in the assimilation of acquired businesses into our control system could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock or on our access to capital, or cause us to be subject to investigation or sanctions by the sec. adverse conditions in the global banking industry and credit markets may adversely impact the value of our cash investments or impair our liquidity. our cash and cash equivalents are invested or held in a mix of money market funds, time deposit accounts and bank demand deposit accounts. disruptions in the financial markets may, in some cases, result in an inability to access assets such as money market funds that traditionally have been viewed as highly liquid. any failure of our counterparty financial institutions or funds in which we have invested may adversely impact our cash and cash equivalent positions and, in turn, our results and financial condition. 25 table of contents future investment returns on pension assets may be lower than expected or interest rates may decline, requiring us to make significant additional cash contributions to our future plans. we sponsor several defined benefit pension plans that cover many of our salaried and hourly employees. the federal pension protection act of 2006 requires that certain capitalization levels be maintained in each of the u.s. plans, and there may be similar funding requirements in the plans outside the united states. because it is unknown what the investment return on and the fair value of our pension assets will be in future years or what interest rates and discount rates may be at any point in time, no assurances can be given that applicable law will not require us to make future material plan contributions. any such contributions could adversely affect our financial condition. environmental contamination from past operations could subject us to unreimbursed costs and could harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the properties involved, and environmental contamination caused by ongoing operations could subject us to substantial liabilities in the future. some of our properties are undergoing remediation by hp inc. ("hp") for subsurface contaminations that were known at the time of agilent's separation from hp in 1999. in connection with agilent's separation from hp, hp and agilent entered into an agreement pursuant to which hp agreed to retain the liability for this subsurface contamination, perform the required remediation and indemnify agilent with respect to claims arising out of that contamination. agilent has assigned its rights and obligations under this agreement to keysight in respect of facilities transferred to us in the separation. as a result, hp will have access to a limited number of our properties to perform remediation. although hp agreed to minimize interference with on-site operations at such properties, remediation activities and subsurface contamination may require us to incur unreimbursed costs and could harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the properties. in connection with the separation, agilent will indemnify us directly for any liabilities related thereto. we cannot be sure that hp will continue to fulfill its remediation obligations or that agilent will continue to fulfill its indemnification obligations. in connection with the separation from agilent, agilent also agreed to indemnify us for any liability associated with contamination from past operations at all properties transferred from agilent to keysight. we cannot be sure that agilent will fulfill its indemnification obligations. our current manufacturing processes involve the use of substances regulated under various international, federal, state and local laws governing the environment. as a result, we may become subject to liabilities for environmental contamination, and these liabilities may be substantial. although our policy is to apply strict standards for environmental protection at our sites inside and outside the united states, even if the sites outside the united states are not subject to regulations imposed by foreign governments, we may not be aware of all conditions that could subject us to liability. risks related to our common stock our share price may fluctuate significantly. our common stock is listed on nyse under the ticker symbol keys. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including but not limited to: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to factors related to our business; success or failure of our business strategy; our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; our ability to obtain third-party financing as needed; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock; changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; the operating and share price performance of other comparable companies; investor perception of our company; natural or other disasters that investors believe may affect us; 26 table of contents overall market fluctuations; results from any material litigation or government investigations; changes in laws or regulations affecting our business; and general economic conditions and other external factors. stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. in addition, when the market price of a company's shares drops significantly, shareholders often institute securities class action lawsuits against the company. a lawsuit against us could cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of management and other resources. we do not currently pay dividends on our common stock. we do not currently pay dividends on our common stock. the payment of any dividends in the future, and the timing and amount thereof, to our stockholders fall within the discretion of our board of directors. the board's decisions regarding the payment of dividends will depend on many factors, such as our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, debt service obligations, restrictive covenants in our debt, industry practice, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors that the board deems relevant. we cannot guarantee that we will pay a dividend in the future or continue to pay any dividends if we commence paying dividends. certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and of delaware law, may prevent or delay an acquisition of the company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain, and delaware law contains, provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. these provisions include but are not limited to: the inability of our shareholders to call a special meeting; the inability of our shareholders to act without a meeting of shareholders; rules regarding how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings; the right of our board to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval; the division of our board of directors into three classes of directors, with each class serving a staggered three-year term, and this classified board provision could have the effect of making the replacement of incumbent directors more time consuming and difficult; a provision that shareholders may only remove directors with cause; the ability of our directors, and not shareholders, to fill vacancies on our board of directors; and the requirement that the affirmative vote of shareholders holding at least 80 percent of our voting stock is required to amend certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation (relating to the number, term and removal of our directors, the filling of our board vacancies, the advance notice to be given for nominations for elections of directors, the calling of special meetings of shareholders, shareholder action by written consent, the ability of the board of directors to amend the bylaws, elimination of liability of directors to the extent permitted by delaware law, exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders and amendments of the certificate of incorporation) and certain provisions in our amended and restated bylaws (relating to the calling of special meetings of shareholders, the business that may be conducted or considered at annual or special meetings, the advance notice of shareholder business and nominations, shareholder action by written consent, the number, tenure, qualifications and removal of our directors, the filling of our board vacancies, director and officer indemnification and amendments of the bylaws). in addition, because we have not chosen to be exempt from section 203 of the delaware general corporation law (the "dgcl"), this provision could also delay or prevent a change of control that some shareholders may favor. section 203 provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with a person that acquires, more than 15 percent of the outstanding voting stock of a delaware corporation (an "interested stockholder") shall not engage in any business combination 27 table of contents with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which the person became an interested stockholder, unless (i) prior to such time, the board of directors of such corporation approved either the business combination or the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder; (ii) upon consummation of the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85 percent of the voting stock of such corporation at the time the transaction commenced (excluding for purposes of determining the voting stock outstanding (but not the outstanding voting stock owned by the interested stockholder) the voting stock owned by directors who are also officers or held in employee benefit plans in which the employees do not have a confidential right to tender or vote stock held by the plan); or (iii) on or subsequent to such time the business combination is approved by the board of directors of such corporation and authorized at a meeting of shareholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock of such corporation not owned by the interested stockholder. we believe these provisions will protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. these provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. however, these provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of the company and our shareholders. these provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates that the state courts in the state of delaware or, if no state court located within the state of delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the district of delaware, as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders, which could discourage lawsuits against the company and our directors and officers. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provide that unless the board of directors otherwise determines, the state courts in the state of delaware or, if no state court located within the state of delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the district of delaware, will be the sole and exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors or officers to the company or our shareholders, any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors or officers arising pursuant to any provision of the dgcl or keysight's amended and restated certificate of incorporation or bylaws, or any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors or officers governed by the internal affairs doctrine. this exclusive forum provision may limit the ability of our shareholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum that such shareholders find favorable for disputes with us or our directors or officers, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors and officers. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk at various times, we use derivative financial instruments to limit exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. because derivative instruments are used solely as hedges and not for speculative trading purposes, fluctuations in the market values of such derivative instruments are generally offset by reciprocal changes in the underlying economic exposures that the instruments are intended to hedge. for further discussion of derivative financial instruments, refer to note 14, "derivatives." currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries. we hedge future cash flows denominated in currencies other than the functional currency using sales and expense forecasts up to twelve months in advance. our exposure to exchange rate risks is managed on an enterprise-wide basis. this strategy utilizes derivative financial instruments, including option and forward contracts, to hedge certain foreign currency exposures with the intent of offsetting gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures with gains and losses on the derivative contracts hedging them. we do not currently and do not intend to utilize derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. our operations generate non-functional currency cash flows such as revenue, third-party vendor payments and inter-company payments. in anticipation of these foreign currency cash flows and in view of the volatility of the currency market, we enter into such foreign exchange contracts as described above to substantially mitigate our currency risk. in 2019, 2018 and 2017, approximately 74 percent, 76 percent and 71 percent of our revenues were generated in u.s. dollars. we performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10 percent adverse movement in foreign exchange rates to the hedging contracts and the underlying exposures described above. as of october 31, 2019 and 2018, the analysis indicated that these hypothetical market movements would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 47 table of contents interest rate risk as of october 31, 2019, we had $1.8 billion in principal amount of senior debt outstanding. the carrying amount of the fixed-rate senior notes was $1.8 billion, and the related fair value based on quoted prices was $1.9 billion. a change in interest rates on long-term debt impacts the fair value of the company's fixed-rate long-term debt but not the company's earnings or cash flow because the interest on such debt is fixed. generally, the fair market value of fixed-rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. as of october 31, 2019, a hypothetical 10 percent increase in interest rates would have decreased the fair value of the company's fixed-rate long-term debt by approximately $33 million. however, since the company currently has no plans to repurchase its outstanding fixed-rate instruments before their maturity nor do the investors in our fixed-rate debt obligations have the right to demand we pay off these obligations prior to maturity, the impact of market interest rate fluctuations on the company's fixed-rate long-term debt does not affect the company's results of operations or stockholders' equity. 48 table of contentsrisk factors. government regulations our company is subject to various federal, state, local and international laws and regulations relating to the development, manufacture, sale and distribution of our products and solutions, and it is our policy to comply with the laws in every jurisdiction in which we conduct business. regulations include but are not limited to those related to environment, corruption, bribery, import and export controls, competition, product safety, workplace health and safety, employment, labor and data privacy. the following describes certain significant regulations that may impact our business. for additional information about the risks related to government regulations, please refer to item 1a. risk factors. environmental regulations our r&amp;d, manufacturing and distribution operations involve the use of hazardous substances and are regulated under international, federal, state and local laws governing health and safety and the environment. we apply strict standards for protection of the environment and occupational health and safety to sites inside and outside the united states, even if not subject to regulation imposed by foreign governments. we believe that our properties and operations at our facilities comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and occupational health and safety laws. however, the risk of environmental liabilities cannot be completely eliminated, and there can be no assurance that the application of environmental and health and safety laws will not require us to incur significant expenditures. we are also regulated under a number of international, federal, state and local laws regarding recycling, product packaging and product content requirements. the environmental, product content/disposal and recycling laws are gradually becoming more stringent and may cause us to incur additional costs in the future. some of our properties are undergoing remediation by hp inc. ("hp") for subsurface contaminations that were known at the time of agilent's separation from hp in 1999. in connection with agilent's separation from hp, hp and agilent entered into an agreement pursuant to which hp agreed to retain the liability for this subsurface contamination, perform the required remediation and indemnify agilent with respect to claims arising out of that contamination. agilent has assigned its rights and obligations under this agreement to keysight in respect of facilities transferred to keysight in our separation from agilent on november 1, 2014 (the "separation"). as a result, hp has access to a limited number of our properties to perform remediation. although hp agreed to minimize interference with on-site operations at such properties, remediation activities and subsurface contamination may require us to incur unreimbursed costs and could harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the properties. in connection with the separation, agilent will indemnify us directly for any liabilities related thereto. we cannot be sure that hp will continue to fulfill its remediation obligations or that agilent will continue to fulfill its indemnification obligations. 15 table of contents in connection with the separation, agilent also agreed to indemnify us for any liability associated with contamination from past operations at all properties transferred from agilent to us. we cannot be sure that agilent will fulfill its indemnification obligations. we maintain a comprehensive environmental site liability insurance policy that may cover certain clean-up costs or legal claims related to environmental contamination. this policy covers specified active, inactive and divested locations. import/export regulations we sell products and solutions to customers all over the world and are required to comply with u.s export administration regulations and economic and trade sanctions programs limiting or banning sales into certain countries. countries outside of the u.s. have implemented similar controls and sanction regulations. together these controls and regulations may impose licensing requirements on exports of certain technology and software from the u.s. and may impact our ability to transact business in certain countries or with certain customers. we have developed compliance programs and training to prevent violations of these programs and regulations, and we regularly monitor changes in the law and regulations and create strategies to deal with changes. changes in the law may restrict or further restrict our ability to sell products and solutions. anti-corruption regulations because we have extensive international operations, we must comply with complex foreign and u.s. laws and regulations, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, and anti-competition regulations. we have compliance policies, programs and training to prevent non-compliance with such anti-corruption regulations in the u.s. and outside of the u.s. we monitor pending and proposed legislation and regulatory changes that may impact our business and develop strategies to address the changes and incorporate them into existing compliance programs. data privacy regulations with extensive operations all over the world, we must comply with complex regulations governing data privacy, including the general data protection regulation ( gdpr ) in the european union and data privacy regulations in other jurisdictions. these regulations require careful handling of internal data. we have internal data handling policies and practices to comply with global data privacy requirements, including gdpr and similar regulations and devote resources to keep up with changing data privacy regulations. the risk of data privacy breaches cannot be entirely eliminated, creating risk of fines and penalties. additionally, new laws, amendments, or interpretations of regulations, industry standards, and contractual obligations relating to data privacy may require us to incur additional costs related to compliance and may restrict our business operations. executive officers of the registrant the following is information regarding our executive officers as of december 1, 2020. ronald s. nersesian , 61, has served as president and chief executive officer of keysight since december 2013 and, prior to the separation, served as executive vice president of agilent. mr. nersesian served as president of agilent from november 2012 to september 2013 and as chief operating officer, agilent from november 2011 to september 2013. from november 2011 to november 2012, mr. nersesian served as agilent's executive vice president and chief operating officer. mr. nersesian serves on the board of directors of trimble inc. mr. nersesian has served as a director on our board of directors since the separation, and as chairman of our board of directors since november 2019. satish dhanasekaran, 48, has served as senior vice president and chief operating officer since october 2020. he was senior vice president and president of the communications solutions group from july 2017 to september 2020. from may 2016 to july 2017, mr. dhanasekaran served as keysight's vice president and general manager, wireless devices and operators business unit. from june 2015 to may 2016, mr. dhanasekaran served as the general manager of the mobile broadband operation, and from november 2014 through june 2015, he led the marketing function for the signal analysis and signal sources division. neil dougherty , 51, has served as senior vice president and chief financial officer of keysight since december 2013 and, prior to the separation, served as vice president and treasurer of agilent since 2012. he served as senior director in agilent's corporate development group from 2010 to 2012, and from 2006 to 2010, he served as agilent's assistant treasurer. jay alexander, 57, has served as senior vice president and chief technology officer of keysight since may 2014. prior to the separation, he served as vice president and general manager for the oscilloscope and protocol division of agilent since october 2009. 16 table of contents huei sin ee, 54, has served as keysight's senior vice president and president of the electronic industrial solutions group since october 2020. previously, she was vice president and general manager of keysight's general electronics measurement solutions from november 2015 to september 2020. ms. ee concurrently served as vice president of keysight education from september 2018 to september 2020. from june 2013 to october 2015, ms. ee was the vice president and general manager of keysight's general-purpose electronic measurement division. prior to the separation, ms. ee served as vice president and general manager of agilent's basic instruments division from february 2005 to may 2013. ingrid estrada , 56, has served as senior vice president, chief people and administrative officer and chief of staff since august 2017. previously, she served as keysight's senior vice president, human resources from december 2013 until august 2017. prior to the separation, she served as vice president and general manager of global sourcing of agilent from 2011. soon chai gooi , 59, has served as senior vice president, order fulfillment and information technology since october 2020 and as senior vice president and president of the electronic industrial solutions group since november 2015. from december 2013 to november 2015, mr. gooi served as senior vice president of order fulfillment and infrastructure for keysight. prior to the separation, mr. gooi served as president, from november 2012 to september 2013, and as senior vice president, from december 2011 to november 2012, of agilent's order fulfillment and supply chain. jeffrey li , 51, has served as senior vice president, general counsel, and secretary since july 2019. before that, mr. li served as vice president, assistant general counsel, and assistant secretary, and prior to the separation, as senior counsel of agilent since 2011. john page, 56, has served as senior vice president and president of global services since november 2015 and most recently served as vice president of business finance of keysight from february 2014 to november 2015. prior to joining keysight, mr. page served as the chief financial officer of nanosys, inc. from 2010 to 2014. john skinner , 58, has served as vice president, corporate controller and principal accounting officer of keysight since december 2013, and prior to the separation, mr. skinner served as vice president, agilent and controller of global infrastructure and enterprise financial planning and analysis from april 2012 to december 2013. mark wallace, 55 , has served as senior vice president of worldwide sales since november 2016. from november 2014 to november 2016, mr. wallace served as vice president and general manager of americas field operations and, prior to the separation, as americas field operations vice president of agilent's electronic measurement group since november 2011. investor information we are subject to the informational requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934 ( exchange act ). therefore, we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). the sec maintains an internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers. you can access financial and other information at our investor relations website at www.investor.keysight.com. we make available, free of charge, printed copies of our annual report on form 10-k, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the sec. our corporate governance guidelines, the charters of our audit and finance committee, compensation committee, nominating and corporate governance committee, executive committee as well as our sbc are available on our website at www.investor.keysight.com under corporate governance. these items are also available in print to any stockholder in the united states and canada who requests them by calling (800) 829-4444. this information is also available by writing to the company at the address on the cover of this annual report on form 10-k. 17 table of contents item 1a. risk factors risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect future results risks related to our business global health crises, such as the covid-19 pandemic, could have a material impact on our global operations and the operations of our supply chain, customers and vendors, which could adversely impact our business results and financial condition. in march 2020, the world health organization declared covid-19 a global pandemic. in response to the rapid global spread of the virus, national, state, and local governments issued orders and recommendations to attempt to reduce the further spread of the disease. such orders included movement control and shelter-in-place orders, travel restrictions, limitations on public gatherings, school closures, social distancing requirements and the closure of all but critical and essential services and infrastructure. in response to these measures and to protect the health and safety of our employees, we temporarily closed our facilities globally and asked all employees who can work from home to do so for the foreseeable future, made substantial changes to employee travel policies, and canceled training and marketing events or moved them to a virtual format. as a supplier to some critical and essential businesses, we have restarted on-site operations using only employees who are not able to work effectively from home and where doing so is in compliance with local regulations and our covid-19 safety procedures. our customers, suppliers and vendors are all subject to these restrictions and orders and are similarly impacted. fluctuation in infection rates in the regions in which we operate has resulted in periodic changes in restrictions that vary from region to region and require vigilant attention and rapid response to new or reinstated restrictions. the uncertain duration and severity of the pandemic, as well as periodic spikes in infection rates, local outbreaks of the virus or potential outbreaks on our sites or supplier, customer or vendor sites, in spite of safety measures, could cause further shutdowns of our operations or those of our suppliers, customers or vendors. any outbreaks causing renewed implementation or extension of existing government orders could also impact the availability of our employees or other workers. as more is understood about the virus and how it is spread, new health orders and safety protocols could further impact our on site operations. adverse impact to our suppliers could adversely impact our ability to procure components and materials, causing an inability to manufacture products or solutions. customers could reduce spending, causing reduced demand for products and solutions, delayed or canceled orders, and inability to pay for products and solutions. lack of employee availability due to shutdowns caused by government orders, illness, or quarantine requirements could further impact our ability to manufacture, ship or deliver products and solutions to customers. continued implementation of measures to reduce the spread of the virus may impact our ability to collaborate globally with customers, suppliers, and internal colleagues. continued uncertainty and market volatility could result in a national or global recession, which could create additional market and global financial instability. these factors could materially and negatively impact our business results, operations, revenue, growth and overall financial condition. uncertainty in general economic conditions may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our business is sensitive to negative changes in general economic conditions, both inside and outside the united states. global and regional economic uncertainty, recession, or depression may impact our business, resulting in: reduced demand for our solutions, delays in the shipment of orders or increases in order cancellations; increased risk of excess and obsolete inventory; increased price pressure for our solutions and services; and greater risk of impairment to the value, and a detriment to the liquidity, of our future investment portfolio. in addition, global and regional macroeconomic developments, such as increased unemployment, decreased income, uncertainty related to future economic activity, reduced access to credit, volatility in capital markets, decreased liquidity, uncertain or destabilizing national election results in the u.s., europe, and asia, and negative changes or volatility in general economic conditions in the u.s., europe, and asia could negatively affect our ability to conduct business in those territories. financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers and customers, including distributors, due to economic volatility or negative changes could result in product delays, delays in payment or inability to pay us, and inventory issues. economic risks related to accounts receivable could result in delays in collection and greater bad debt expense. our operating results and financial condition could be harmed if the markets into which we sell our solutions decline or do not grow as anticipated. visibility into our markets is limited. our quarterly sales and operating results are highly dependent on the volume and timing of technology-related spending and orders received during the fiscal quarter, which are difficult to forecast and may be cancelled 18 table of contents by our customers. in addition, our revenues and earnings forecasts for future fiscal quarters are often based on the expected seasonality or cyclicality of our markets. however, due to the uncertainties and negative economic environment created by the current global pandemic, the markets we serve may experience increased volatility and may not experience the seasonality or cyclicality that we expect. any decline in our customers' markets would likely result in a reduction in demand for our solutions and services. the broader semiconductor market is one of the drivers for our business, and therefore, a decrease in the semiconductor market could harm our business. also, if our customers' markets decline, we may not be able to collect on outstanding amounts due to us. such declines could harm our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price, and could limit our profitability. also, in such an environment, pricing pressures could intensify. since a significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed in nature due to sales, r&amp;d and manufacturing costs, if we were unable to respond quickly enough, these pricing pressures could further reduce our operating margins. economic and political policies favoring national interests could adversely affect our results of operations. nationalistic economic policies and political trends in the united states, the united kingdom, the european union, singapore, malaysia and china among other countries, such as opposition to globalization and free trade, sanctions or trade restrictions, withdrawal from or re-negotiation of global trade agreements, tax policies that favor domestic industries and interests, the exit of the united kingdom from the european union (known as brexit), the distancing or potential exit of other countries from the european union, and other similar actions may result in increased transaction costs, reduced ability to hire employees, reduced access to supplies and materials, reduced demand or access to customers in international markets, and inability to conduct our operations as they have been conducted historically. each of these factors may adversely affect our business. international trade disputes and increased tariffs between the united states and such jurisdictions could substantially change our expectations and ability to operate in such jurisdictions as we have done historically. many of our suppliers, vendors, customers, partners, and other entities with whom we do business have strong ties to doing business in china. their ability to supply materials to us, buy products or services from us, or otherwise work with us is affected by their ability to do business in china. the deterioration of the u.s.'s relationship with china could result in additional trade disputes, trade protection measures, retaliatory actions, tariffs and increased barriers, policies that favor domestic industries, or increased import or export licensing requirements or restrictions, then our deployment of resources in jurisdictions affected by such measures could be misaligned and our operations may be adversely affected due to such changes in the economic and political ecosystem in which our suppliers, vendors, customers, partners, and other entities with whom we do business operate. a decreased demand for our customers' products or trade restrictions could adversely affect our results of operations. our business depends on our customers' ability to manufacture, design, and sell their products in the marketplace. international trade disputes affecting our customers could adversely affect our business. tariffs on imports to or from china could increase the cost of our customers' components and raw materials, which could make our customers' products and services more expensive and could reduce demand for our customers' products. protectionist and retaliatory trade measures by either china or the united states could limit our customers' ability to sell their products and services and could reduce demand of our customers' products. our customers and other entities in our customer chain could decide to take actions in response to international trade disputes that we could not foresee. a decrease in demand or significant change in operations from our customers due to international trade disputes could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in addition to the above, our customers and suppliers could become subject to u.s. export restrictions and sanctions, such as, being added to the u.s. department of commerce's lists of parties of concern and having u.s. export privileges denied or suspended. in the event that a customer or supplier of ours becomes subject to such sanctions, we will suspend our business with such customer or supplier. because of the increasingly tense political and economic relationship between the united states and china, new sanctions could be imposed with little notice, which could leave us without an adequate alternative solution to compensate for our inability to continue to do business with such customer or supplier. some of our suppliers and customers in the supply chain are working on unique solutions and products in the market, and it may be difficult if not impossible to replace them, especially with short notice. we cannot predict what impact future sanctions could have on our customers or suppliers, and therefore, our business. any export restrictions or sanctions and any tariffs or other trade restriction imposed on our customers or suppliers could adversely affect our financial condition and business. economic, political, and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our results of operations. because we sell our solutions worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. we anticipate that revenue from international operations will continue to represent a majority of our total revenue. however, there can be no assurances that our international sales will continue at existing levels or grow in accordance with our effort to increase foreign market penetration. in addition, many of our employees, contract manufacturers, suppliers, job functions and manufacturing 19 table of contents facilities are located outside the united states. accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including but not limited to: negative impact of a country's response to the global covid-19 pandemic or an imposed reduction in economic activity and other economic and political measures taken to contain the spread of covid-19; changes in a specific country's or region's political, economic or other conditions, including but not limited to changes that favor national interests and economic volatility; negative consequences from changes in tax laws; difficulty in protecting intellectual property; interruption to transportation flows for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; local competition; differing labor regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; inadequate local infrastructure; potential incidences of corruption and fraudulent business practices; and volatile geopolitical turmoil, including popular uprisings, regional conflicts, terrorism, and war. we centralize most of our accounting processes at two locations: india and malaysia. these processes include general accounting, inventory cost accounting, accounts payable and accounts receivables functions. if conditions change in those countries, it may adversely affect operations, including impairing our ability to pay our suppliers. our results of operations, as well as our liquidity, may be adversely affected and possible delays may occur in reporting financial results. further, even if we are able to successfully manage the risks of international operations, our business may be adversely affected if our business partners are not able to successfully manage similar risks. failure to introduce successful new solutions and services in a timely manner to address increased competition, rapid technological changes, and changing industry standards could result in our solutions and services becoming obsolete. we generally sell our solutions in industries that are characterized by increased competition through frequent new solution and service introductions, rapid technological changes and changing industry standards. in addition, many of the markets in which we operate are seasonal and cyclical. without the timely introduction of new solutions, services and enhancements, our solutions and services will become technologically obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. our ability to offer new solutions and services and to deploy them in a timely manner depend on several factors, including but not limited to our ability to: properly identify customer needs; innovate and develop new technologies, services and applications; successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner; manufacture and deliver our solutions in sufficient volumes and on time; differentiate our offerings from our competitors' offerings; price our solutions competitively; anticipate our competitors' development of new solutions, services or technological innovations; and control product quality in our manufacturing process. 20 table of contents the covid-19 global pandemic could impact our ability to execute on these dependencies. it may be difficult to differentiate ourselves from our competitors due to limited travel and access to customers, which could make it difficult to properly assess customer needs, and interruptions in manufacturing and delivery of solutions. our future operating results may fluctuate significantly if our investments in innovative technologies are not as profitable as we anticipate. on a regular basis, we review the existing technologies available in the market and identify strategic new technologies to develop and invest in. we are currently devoting significant resources to the 5g technology and other new technologies in the automotive, battery, internet of things, and mobile industries. we are investing in r&amp;d, developing relationships with customers and suppliers, and re-directing our corporate and operational resources to grow within these innovative technologies. our income could be harmed if we fail to gain sufficient market share, if demand for our solutions is lower than we expect, or if our income related to the innovative technologies is lower than we anticipate. for example, when the 5g standards are published, we may not be able to produce a satisfactory return on investment if our strategic vision and the resources that we are spending on developing our presence in the 5g technology industry turn out to be misaligned with such standards. we provide solutions for the design, development, and manufacturing stages of our customers' workflow. our customers who currently use our solutions in one stage of their workflow may not use our solutions in other aspects of their manufacturing process. failure to adjust our purchases due to changing market conditions or failure to estimate our customers' demand could adversely affect our income. our income could be harmed if we are unable to adjust our purchases to market fluctuations, including those caused by the seasonal or cyclical nature of the markets in which we operate. the sale of our solutions and services are dependent, to a large degree, on customers whose industries are subject to seasonal or cyclical trends in the demand for their products. for example, the consumer electronics market is particularly volatile, making demand difficult to anticipate. making such estimations in the current economic climate affected by the global pandemic is particularly difficult as increased volatility may impact seasonal trends making it more difficult to anticipate demand fluctuations. during a market upturn, we may not be able to purchase sufficient supplies or components to meet increasing product demand, which could materially affect our results. in the past, we have seen a shortage of parts for some of our products. in addition, some of the parts that require custom design are not readily available from alternate suppliers due to their unique design or the length of time necessary for design work. should a supplier cease manufacturing such a component, we would be forced to re-engineer our solution. in addition to discontinuing parts, suppliers may also extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. the covid-19 pandemic may further exacerbate these risks as suppliers are impacted by surging infection rates, possible shutdown orders or new safety restrictions. in order to secure components for the production of products, we may continue to enter into non-cancellable purchase commitments with vendors, or at times make advance payments to suppliers, which could impact our ability to adjust our inventory to declining market demands. prior commitments of this type have resulted in an excess of parts when demand for electronic products has decreased. if demand for our solutions is less than we expect, we may experience additional excess and obsolete inventories and be forced to incur additional charges. dependence on contract manufacturing and outsourcing other portions of our supply chain may adversely affect our ability to bring solutions to market and damage our reputation. dependence on outsourced information technology and other administrative functions may impair our ability to operate effectively. as part of our efforts to streamline operations and to cut costs, we outsource aspects of our manufacturing processes and other functions and continue to evaluate additional outsourcing. if our contract manufacturers or other outsourcers fail to perform their obligations in a timely manner or at satisfactory quality levels, our ability to bring solutions to market and our reputation could suffer. for example, during a market upturn, our contract manufacturers may be unable to meet our demand requirements, which may preclude us from fulfilling our customers' orders on a timely basis. the ability of these manufacturers to perform is largely outside of our control. additionally, changing or replacing our contract manufacturers or other outsourced vendors could cause disruptions or delays. in addition, we outsource significant portions of our information technology ("it") and other administrative functions. since it is critical to our operations, any failure of our it providers to perform could impair our ability to operate effectively. in addition to the risks outlined above, problems with manufacturing or it outsourcing could result in lower revenues and unrealized efficiencies and could impact our results of operations and stock price. much of our outsourcing takes place in developing countries and, as a result, may be subject to geopolitical uncertainty. our operating results may suffer if our manufacturing capacity does not match the demand for our solutions. because we cannot immediately adapt our production capacity and related cost structures to rapidly changing market conditions, when demand does not meet our expectations, our manufacturing capacity will likely exceed our production requirements. during a general market upturn or an upturn in our business, we cannot increase our manufacturing capacity to meet product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner, which could lead to order cancellations, contract breaches or indemnification 21 table of contents obligations. this inability could materially and adversely limit our ability to improve our income, margin and operating results. by contrast, if, during an economic downturn, we had excess manufacturing capacity, then our fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity would adversely affect our income, margins and operating results. key customers or large orders may expose us to additional business and legal risks that could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition . as a global company, we have key customers all over the world. although no one customer makes up more than 10 percent of our revenue, trade restrictions, sanctions and embargos could force reductions in sales to or prevent us from selling large orders to certain key customers, which could impact our income, operating results and financial condition. certain key customers have substantial purchasing power and leverage in negotiating contractual arrangements with us. these customers may demand contract terms that differ considerably from our standard terms and conditions. large orders may also include severe contractual liabilities for us if we fail to provide the quantity and quality of product at the required delivery times. while we attempt to contractually limit our potential liability under such contracts, we may have to agree to some or all of these types of provisions to secure these orders and to continue to grow our business. such actions expose us to significant additional risks, which could result in a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. industry consolidation and consolidation among our customer base may lead to increased competition and may harm our operating results. there is potential for industry consolidation in our markets. as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry, companies could be acquired or may be unable to continue operations. companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us. we believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors and could lead to more variability in our operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. furthermore, particularly in the communications market, rapid consolidation would lead to fewer customers, with the effect that loss of a major customer could have a material impact on results not anticipated in a customer marketplace composed of more numerous participants. additionally, if there is consolidation among our customer base, our customers may be able to command increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could adversely affect our profitability. in addition, if, as a result of increased leverage, customer pressures require us to reduce our pricing such that our gross margins are diminished, we could decide not to sell our solutions under such less favorable terms, which would decrease our revenue. consolidation among our customer base may also lead to reduced demand for our solutions, replacement of our products by the combined entity with those of our competitors and cancellations of orders, each of which could harm our operating results. our acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, internal reorganizations and divestitures may result in financial results that are different than expected. in the normal course of business, we may engage in discussions with third parties relating to possible acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures. additionally, we occasionally make changes to our internal structure to align business products, services and solutions with market demands and to obtain cost synergies and operational efficiencies. as a result of such transactions, our financial results may differ from our own or the investment community's expectations in a given fiscal quarter, or over the long term. if market conditions or other factors lead us to change our strategic direction, we may not realize the expected value from such transactions or reorganizations. further, such third-party transactions often have post-closing arrangements, including, but not limited to, post-closing adjustments, transition services, escrows or indemnifications, the financial results of which can be difficult to predict. in addition, acquisitions and strategic alliances may require us to integrate a different company culture, management team, employees and business infrastructure into our existing operations without impacting the business operations of the newly acquired company. we may have difficulty developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company in a way that enhances performance and expands the markets of the newly acquired company. the acquired company may not enhance the performance of our businesses or product lines such that we do not realize the value from expected synergies. depending on the size and complexity of an acquisition, the successful integration of the entity depends on a variety of factors, including but not limited to: the achievement of anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from combining the acquired company; the scalability of production, manufacturing and marketing of products of a newly acquired company to broader adjacent markets; 22 table of contents the ability to cohesively integrate operations, product definitions, price lists, delivery, and technical support for products and solutions of a newly acquired company into our existing operations; the compatibility of our infrastructure, operations, policies and organizations with those of the acquired company; the retention of key employees and/or customers; the management of facilities and employees in different geographic areas; and the management of relationships with our strategic partners, suppliers, and customer base. if we do not realize the expected benefits or synergies of such transactions, our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price could be negatively impacted. additionally, we may record significant goodwill and other assets as a result of acquisitions or investments, and we may be required to incur impairment charges, which could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. any inability to complete acquisitions on acceptable terms could negatively impact our growth rate and financial performance. our ability to grow revenues, earnings and cash flow depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate businesses at appropriate prices and realize anticipated synergies and business performance. appropriate targets for acquisition are difficult to identify and complete for a variety of reasons, including but not limited to, limited due diligence, high valuations, business and intellectual property evaluations, other interested parties, negotiations of the definitive documentation, satisfaction of closing conditions, the need to obtain antitrust or other regulatory approvals on acceptable terms, and availability of funding. the inability to close appropriate acquisitions on acceptable terms could adversely impact our growth rate, revenue, and financial performance. we may need additional financing in the future to meet our capital needs or to make opportunistic acquisitions, and such financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, if at all, and may be dilutive to existing shareholders. we may need to seek additional financing for our general corporate purposes. for example, we may need to increase our investment in r&amp;d activities or need funds to make acquisitions. we may be unable to obtain any desired additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. if adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our expansion, successfully develop or enhance solutions or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could negatively affect our business. if we finance acquisitions by issuing additional convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may experience share dilution, which could affect the market price of our stock. if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, our shareholders will experience dilution of their ownership interest. if we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to further limitations on our operations and ability to pay dividends due to restrictive covenants. we have outstanding debt and may incur other debt in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. we currently have outstanding debt as well as availability to borrow under a revolving credit facility. we may borrow additional amounts in the future and use the proceeds from any future borrowing for general corporate purposes, future acquisitions, expansion of our business or repurchases of our outstanding shares of common stock. our incurrence of this debt, and increases in our aggregate levels of debt, may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition by, among other things: requiring a portion of our cash flow from operations to make interest payments on this debt; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; reducing the cash flow available to fund capital expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow our business; and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry. our current revolving credit facility and term loan imposes restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to create liens on our assets and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur indebtedness, and requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. in addition, the indenture governing our senior notes contains covenants that may adversely affect our ability to incur certain liens or engage in certain types of sale and leaseback transactions. if we breach any of the covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness could be declared immediately due and payable. 23 table of contents if currency exchange rates fluctuate substantially in the future, our financial results could be adversely affected. a substantial amount of our solutions are priced and paid for in u.s. dollars, although many of our solutions are priced in local currencies and a significant amount of certain types of expenses, such as payroll, utilities, tax and marketing expenses, are paid in local currencies. our hedging programs are designed to reduce, but not entirely eliminate, within any given 12-month period, the impact of currency exchange rate movements, including those caused by currency controls, which could impact our business, operating results and financial condition by resulting in lower revenue or increased expenses. however, for expenses beyond a 12-month period, our hedging strategy will not mitigate our exchange rate risk. in addition, our currency hedging programs involve third-party financial institutions as counterparties. the weakening or failure of these counterparties may adversely affect our hedging programs and our financial condition through, among other things, a reduction in the number of available counterparties, increasingly unfavorable terms or the failure of counterparties to perform under hedging contracts. volatile changes in weather conditions and effects of climate change could damage or destroy strategic facilities, including our headquarters, which could have a significant negative impact on our operations. we and our customers and suppliers are vulnerable to the increasing impact of climate change. volatile changes in weather conditions, including extreme heat or cold, could increase the risk of wildfires, floods, blizzards, hurricanes and other weather-related disasters. disasters created by extreme conditions could cause significant damage to or destruction of our facilities resulting in temporary or long-term closures of our facilities and operations and significant expense for repair or replacement of damaged or destroyed facilities. this could also result in loss or damage to employee homes, employees relocating to other parts of the country or being unwilling to relocate to the strategic locations, housing shortages and loss of or inability to recruit key employees, this could result in adverse impact to the available workforce, damage to or destruction of inventory, inability to manufacture and deliver solutions, cancellation of orders, and breaches of customer contracts leading to reduced revenue. if we suffer a loss to our employees, factories, facilities or distribution system due to a catastrophic event, our operations could be significantly harmed. our factories, facilities and distribution system are vulnerable to catastrophic loss due to natural or man-made disasters such as earthquakes and terrorism. several of our facilities could be subject to a catastrophic loss caused by earthquake or other natural disasters due to their locations. for example, our production facilities, headquarters and laboratories in california and our production facilities in japan are all located in areas with above-average seismic activity. if any of these facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. in addition, since we have consolidated our manufacturing facilities, we are more likely to experience an interruption to our operations in the event of a catastrophe in any one location. although we carry insurance for property damage and business interruption, we do not carry insurance or financial reserves for interruptions or potential losses arising from earthquakes or terrorism. also, our third-party insurance coverage will vary from time to time in both type and amount depending on availability, cost and our decisions with respect to risk retention. economic conditions and uncertainties in global markets may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain third-party insurance. if our third-party insurance coverage is adversely affected, or to the extent we have elected to self-insure, we may be at a greater risk that our operations will be harmed by a catastrophic loss. third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling solutions or services. third parties may claim that one or more of our solutions or services infringe their intellectual property rights. we analyze and take action in response to such claims on a case-by-case basis. any dispute or litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming due to the complexity of our technology and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation and could divert our management and key personnel from business operations. a claim of intellectual property infringement could cause us to enter into a costly or restrictive license agreement (which may not be available under acceptable terms, or at all), require us to redesign certain of our solutions (which would be costly and time-consuming) and/or subject us to significant damages or an injunction against the development and sale of certain solutions or services. in certain of our businesses, we rely on third-party intellectual property licenses, and we cannot ensure that these licenses will be available to us in the future on terms favorable to us or at all. third parties may infringe our intellectual property rights, and we may suffer competitive injury or expend significant resources enforcing our intellectual property rights. our success depends in part on our proprietary technology, including technology we obtained through acquisitions. we rely on various intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements, to establish our proprietary rights. if we do not enforce our intellectual property rights successfully, our competitive position may suffer, which could harm our operating results. 24 table of contents our pending patent, copyright and trademark registration applications may not be allowed or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents, copyrights or trademarks. in addition, our patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not provide us with a significant competitive advantage. in preparation for the separation and distribution, we have applied for trademarks related to our new global brand name in various jurisdictions worldwide. any successful opposition to our applications in material jurisdictions could impose material costs on us or make it more difficult to protect our brand. different jurisdictions vary widely in the level of protection and priority they give to trademark and other intellectual property rights. we may be required to spend significant resources monitoring our intellectual property rights, and we may or may not be able to detect infringement of such rights by third parties. our competitive position may be harmed if we cannot detect infringement and enforce our intellectual property rights in a timely manner, or at all. in some circumstances, we may choose to not pursue enforcement due to a variety of reasons. in addition, competitors may avoid infringement by designing around our intellectual property rights or by developing non-infringing competing technologies. intellectual property rights and our ability to enforce them may be unavailable or limited in some countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share and could result in lost revenues to the company. furthermore, some of our intellectual property is licensed to others, which allows them to compete with us using that intellectual property. if we experience a significant cybersecurity attack or disruption in our it systems, our business, reputation, and operating results could be adversely affected. we rely on several centralized it systems to provide solutions and services, maintain financial records, retain sensitive data such as intellectual property, proprietary business information, and data related to customers, suppliers, and business partners, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. the ongoing maintenance and security of this information is pertinent to the success of our business operations and our strategic goals. despite our implementation of network security measures, our network may be vulnerable to cybersecurity attacks, computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions. our network security measures include, but are not limited to, the implementation of firewalls, antivirus protection, patches, log monitors, routine backups, offsite storage, network audits, and routine updates and modifications. despite our efforts to create these security barriers, we may not be able to keep pace as new threats emerge and it is virtually impossible for us to entirely eliminate this risk. cybersecurity attacks are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, operating results and financial condition, and no assurance can be given that our efforts to reduce the risk of such attacks will be successful. in addition, our it systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions, instability, or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication failures, user errors, implementation of new operational systems or software or upgrades to existing systems and software, catastrophes, overburdening of systems resulting from an increase of work from home employees due to covid-19, or other unforeseen events. such events could result in the disruption of business processes, network degradation and system downtime, along with the potential that a third party will exploit our critical assets such as intellectual property, proprietary business information and data related to our customers, suppliers and business partners. further, such events could result in loss of revenue, loss of or reduction in purchase orders, inability to report financial information, litigation, regulatory fines and penalties, and other damage that could have a material impact on our business operations. to the extent that such disruptions occur, our customers and partners may lose confidence in our solutions and we may lose business or brand reputation, resulting in a material and adverse effect on our business operating results and financial condition. we are or will be subject to ongoing tax examinations of our tax returns by the irs and other tax authorities. an adverse outcome of any such audit or examination by the irs or other tax authority could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are or will be subject to ongoing tax examinations of our tax returns by the irs and other tax authorities in various jurisdictions. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from ongoing tax examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. these assessments can require considerable estimates and judgments. intercompany transactions associated with the sale of inventory, services, intellectual property and cost sharing arrangements are complex and affect our tax liabilities. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in multiple jurisdictions. the outcomes of these tax examinations could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. due to the complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters related to operations may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued. 25 table of contents our operations may be adversely impacted by changes in our business mix or changes in the tax legislative landscape. our effective tax rate may be adversely impacted by, among other things, changes in the mix of our earnings among countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation allowance of deferred tax assets, and changes in tax laws. we cannot give any assurance as to what our effective tax rate will be in the future because, among other things, there is uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate. changes in tax laws, such as tax reform in the united states or changes in tax laws resulting from the organization for economic co-operation and development's ( oecd ) multi-jurisdictional plan of action to address base erosion and profit shifting and the taxation of the digital economy could impact our effective tax rate. if tax laws or incentives change or cease to be in effect, our income taxes could increase significantly. we are subject to federal, state, and local taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. we devote significant resources to evaluating our tax positions and our worldwide provision for taxes. our financial results and tax treatment are susceptible to changes in tax, accounting, and other laws, regulations, principles, and interpretations in the united states and in other jurisdictions where we do business. with the rise of economic and political policies that favor domestic interests, it is possible that more countries will enact tax laws that either increase the tax rates, or reduce or change the tax incentives available to multinational companies like ours. upon a change in tax laws in any territory where we do significant business, we may not be able to maintain our current tax rate or qualify for or maintain the benefits of any tax incentives offered, to the extent such incentives are offered. we currently benefit from tax incentives extended to certain of our foreign subsidiaries to encourage investment or employment, the most significant of which being singapore. the singapore tax incentives require that specific conditions be satisfied, which include achieving thresholds of employment, ownership of certain assets, as well as specific types of investment activities within singapore. based on the current tax environment, we believe that we will satisfy such conditions in the future as needed, but cannot guarantee that the tax environment will not change or that such conditions will be satisfied. our singapore tax incentives are due for renewal in fiscal 2024, but we cannot guarantee that singapore will not revoke the tax incentives earlier. our taxes could increase if the existing singapore incentives are not renewed upon revocation or expiration. we cannot guarantee that we will qualify for any new incentive regime that may exist in fiscal 2024, or that such conditions will be satisfied. if we cannot or do not wish to satisfy all or portions of the tax incentives conditions, we may lose the related tax incentives and could be required to refund the benefits that the tax incentives previously provided. as a result, our effective tax rate could be higher than it would have been had we maintained the benefits of the tax incentives and could harm our operating results. our business will suffer if we are not able to retain and hire key personnel. our future success depends partly on the continued service of our key research, engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing, executive and administrative personnel, including personnel joining our company through acquisitions. the markets in which we operate are dynamic, and we may need to respond with reorganizations, workforce reductions and site closures from time to time. we believe our pay levels are competitive within the regions that we operate. however, there is also intense competition for certain highly technical specialties in geographic areas in which we operate, and it may become more difficult to retain key employees. if we fail to retain and hire a sufficient number of these personnel, we may not be able to meet key objectives, such as launching effective product innovations and meeting financial goals, and maintain or expand our business. if we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with certain regulations, we may be subject to substantial negative financial consequences and civil or criminal penalties. we and our customers are subject to various significant international, federal, state and local regulations, including, but not limited to, health and safety including regulations related to covid-19, packaging, data privacy, product content, environmental, labor and import/export regulations. these regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. we may be required to incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations or to remedy violations of these regulations. any failure by us to comply with applicable government regulations could also result in cessation of our operations or portions of our operations, high financial penalties, product recalls or impositions of fines, and restrictions on our ability to carry on or expand our operations. if demand for our solutions is adversely affected or our costs increase, our business would suffer. our r&amp;d, manufacturing and distribution operations involve the use of hazardous substances and are regulated under international, federal, state and local laws governing health and safety and the environment. we are also regulated under a number of international, federal, state and local laws regarding recycling, product packaging and product content requirements. we apply strict standards for protection of the environment and occupational health and safety inside and outside the united states, even where not subject to regulation imposed by foreign governments. we believe that our properties and operations at our facilities 26 table of contents comply in all material respects with applicable environmental and occupational health and safety laws. in spite of these efforts, no assurance can be given that we will be compliant with all applicable environmental and workplace health and safety laws and regulations and violations could result in civil or criminal sanctions, fines and penalties. we have developed internal data handling policies and practices to comply with the general data protection regulation ( gdpr ) in the european union and data privacy regulations similar to gdpr in other jurisdictions. our existing business strategy does not rely on aggregating or selling personally identifiable information, and as a general matter keysight does not process personally identifiable information on behalf of our customers. we devote resources to keep up with the changing regulatory environment on data privacy in the jurisdictions where we do business. despite our efforts, no assurance can be given that we will be compliant with data privacy regulations. new laws, amendments, or interpretations of regulations, industry standards, and contractual obligations relating to data privacy may require us to incur additional costs and restrict our business operations. if we fail to comply with gdpr or other data privacy regulation, we may be subject to significant financial fines and civil or criminal penalties, and may suffer damage to our reputation or brand, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. in addition, our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, like the international standards organization, as well as regulation by other agencies such as the u.s. federal communications commission. we also must comply with work safety rules. if we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our businesses could be harmed. failure to comply with anti-corruption laws could adversely affect our business and result in financial penalties. because we have extensive international operations, we must comply with complex foreign and u.s. laws and regulations, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, and anti-competition regulations. although we actively maintain policies and procedures designed to ensure ongoing compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate these policies and procedures. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, restrictions on our business conduct and on our ability to offer our solutions in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our brand, ability to attract and retain employees, international operations, business and operating results. our business and financial results may be adversely affected by various legal and regulatory proceedings. we are subject to legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims in the normal course of business and could become subject to additional claims in the future, some of which could be material. the outcome of existing proceedings, lawsuits and claims may differ from our expectations because the outcomes of litigation are often difficult to reliably predict. various factors or developments can lead us to change current estimates of liabilities and related insurance receivables where applicable, or permit us to make such estimates for matters previously not susceptible to reasonable estimates, such as a significant judicial ruling or judgment, a significant settlement, significant regulatory developments or changes in applicable law. a future adverse ruling, settlement or unfavorable development could result in charges that could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. our internal controls may be determined to be ineffective, which may adversely affect investor confidence in our company, the value of our stock, and our access to capital. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 requires us to furnish a report by management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, among other things. we are devoting significant resources and time to comply with such internal control over financial reporting requirements. however, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we design, implement and maintain adequate control over our financial processes and reporting in the future, especially in the context of acquisitions of other businesses. any difficulties in the assimilation of acquired businesses into our control system could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock or on our access to capital, or cause us to be subject to investigation or sanctions by the sec. adverse conditions in the global banking industry and credit markets may adversely impact the value of our cash investments or impair our liquidity. our cash and cash equivalents are invested or held in a mix of money market funds, time deposit accounts and bank demand deposit accounts. disruptions in the financial markets may, in some cases, result in an inability to access assets such as money market funds that traditionally have been viewed as highly liquid. any failure of our counterparty financial institutions or funds in which we have invested may adversely impact our cash and cash equivalent positions and, in turn, our results and financial condition. 27 table of contents future investment returns on pension assets may be lower than expected or interest rates may decline, requiring us to make significant additional cash contributions to our future plans. we sponsor several defined benefit pension plans that cover many of our salaried and hourly employees. the federal pension protection act of 2006 requires that certain capitalization levels be maintained in each of the u.s. plans, and there may be similar funding requirements in the plans outside the united states. because it is unknown what the investment return on and the fair value of our pension assets will be in future years or what interest rates and discount rates may be at any point in time, no assurances can be given that applicable law will not require us to make future material plan contributions. any such contributions could adversely affect our financial condition. environmental contamination from past operations could subject us to unreimbursed costs and could harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the properties involved, and environmental contamination caused by ongoing operations could subject us to substantial liabilities in the future. some of our properties are undergoing remediation by hp inc. ("hp") for subsurface contaminations that were known at the time of agilent's separation from hp in 1999. in connection with agilent's separation from hp, hp and agilent entered into an agreement pursuant to which hp agreed to retain the liability for this subsurface contamination, perform the required remediation and indemnify agilent with respect to claims arising out of that contamination. agilent has assigned its rights and obligations under this agreement to keysight in respect of facilities transferred to us in the separation. as a result, hp will have access to a limited number of our properties to perform remediation. although hp agreed to minimize interference with on-site operations at such properties, remediation activities and subsurface contamination may require us to incur unreimbursed costs and could harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the properties. in connection with the separation, agilent will indemnify us directly for any liabilities related thereto. we cannot be sure that hp will continue to fulfill its remediation obligations or that agilent will continue to fulfill its indemnification obligations. in connection with the separation from agilent, agilent also agreed to indemnify us for any liability associated with contamination from past operations at all properties transferred from agilent to keysight. we cannot be sure that agilent will fulfill its indemnification obligations. our current manufacturing processes involve the use of substances regulated under various international, federal, state and local laws governing the environment. as a result, we may become subject to liabilities for environmental contamination, and these liabilities may be substantial. although our policy is to apply strict standards for environmental protection at our sites inside and outside the united states, even if the sites outside the united states are not subject to regulations imposed by foreign governments, we may not be aware of all conditions that could subject us to liability. risks related to our common stock our share price may fluctuate significantly. our common stock is listed on new york stock exchange ("nyse") under the ticker symbol keys. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including but not limited to: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to factors related to our business; success or failure of our business strategy; our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; our ability to obtain third-party financing as needed; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock; changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; the operating and share price performance of other comparable companies; investor perception of our company; 28 table of contents natural or other disasters that investors believe may affect us; the impact of global pandemics, such as covid-19; overall market fluctuations; results from any material litigation or government investigations; changes in laws or regulations affecting our business; and general economic conditions and other external factors. stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. in addition, when the market price of a company's shares drops significantly, shareholders often institute securities class action lawsuits against the company. a lawsuit against us could cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of management and other resources. we do not currently pay dividends on our common stock. we do not currently pay dividends on our common stock. the payment of any dividends in the future, and the timing and amount thereof, to our stockholders fall within the discretion of our board of directors. the board's decisions regarding the payment of dividends will depend on many factors, such as our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, debt service obligations, restrictive covenants in our debt, industry practice, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. we cannot guarantee that we will pay a dividend in the future or continue to pay any dividends if we commence paying dividends. certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and of delaware law, may prevent or delay an acquisition of the company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain, and delaware law contains, provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. these provisions include but are not limited to: the inability of our shareholders to call a special meeting; the inability of our shareholders to act without a meeting of shareholders; rules regarding how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings; the right of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval; the division of our board of directors into three classes of directors, with each class serving a staggered three-year term, and this classified board provision could have the effect of making the replacement of incumbent directors more time consuming and difficult; a provision that shareholders may only remove directors with cause; the ability of our directors, and not shareholders, to fill vacancies on our board of directors; and the requirement that the affirmative vote of shareholders holding at least 80 percent of our voting stock is required to amend certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation (relating to the number, term and removal of our directors, the filling of our board vacancies, the advance notice to be given for nominations for elections of directors, the calling of special meetings of shareholders, shareholder action by written consent, the ability of the board of directors to amend the bylaws, elimination of liability of directors to the extent permitted by delaware law, exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders and amendments of the certificate of incorporation) and certain provisions in our amended and restated bylaws (relating to the calling of special meetings of shareholders, the business that may be conducted or considered at annual or special meetings, the advance notice of shareholder business and nominations, shareholder action by written consent, the number, tenure, qualifications and removal of our directors, the filling of our board vacancies, director and officer indemnification and amendments of the bylaws). 29 table of contents in addition, because we have not chosen to be exempt from section 203 of the delaware general corporation law (the "dgcl"), this provision could also delay or prevent a change of control that some shareholders may favor. section 203 provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with a person that acquires, more than 15 percent of the outstanding voting stock of a delaware corporation (an "interested stockholder") shall not engage in any business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which the person became an interested stockholder, unless (i) prior to such time, the board of directors of such corporation approved either the business combination or the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder; (ii) upon consummation of the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85 percent of the voting stock of such corporation at the time the transaction commenced (excluding for purposes of determining the voting stock outstanding (but not the outstanding voting stock owned by the interested stockholder) the voting stock owned by directors who are also officers or held in employee benefit plans in which the employees do not have a confidential right to tender or vote stock held by the plan); or (iii) on or subsequent to such time the business combination is approved by the board of directors of such corporation and authorized at a meeting of shareholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock of such corporation not owned by the interested stockholder. we believe these provisions will protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. these provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. however, these provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of the company and our shareholders. these provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates that the state courts in the state of delaware or, if no state court located within the state of delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the district of delaware, as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders, which could discourage lawsuits against the company and our directors and officers. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provide that unless the board of directors otherwise determines, the state courts in the state of delaware or, if no state court located within the state of delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the district of delaware, will be the sole and exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors or officers to the company or our shareholders, any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors or officers arising pursuant to any provision of the dgcl or keysight's amended and restated certificate of incorporation or bylaws, or any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors or officers governed by the internal affairs doctrine. this exclusive forum provision may limit the ability of our shareholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum that such shareholders find favorable for disputes with us or our directors or officers, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors and officers. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk at various times, we use derivative financial instruments to limit exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. because derivative instruments are used solely as hedges and not for speculative trading purposes, fluctuations in the market values of such derivative instruments are generally offset by reciprocal changes in the underlying economic exposures that the instruments are intended to hedge. for further discussion of derivative financial instruments, see note 14, "derivatives." currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, expenses and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries. we hedge future cash flows denominated in currencies other than the functional currency using sales and expense forecasts on a rolling period of up to twelve months. our exposure to exchange rate risks is managed on an enterprise-wide basis. this strategy utilizes derivative financial instruments, primarily forward contracts, to hedge certain foreign currency exposures with the intent of offsetting gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures with gains and losses on the derivative contracts hedging them. we do not currently and do not intend to utilize derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. to the extent that we are required to pay for all, or portions, of an acquisition price in foreign currencies, we may enter into foreign exchange contracts to reduce the risk that currency movements will impact the cost of the transaction. our operations generate non-functional currency cash flows such as revenue, third-party vendor payments and inter-company payments. in anticipation of these foreign currency cash flows and in view of the volatility of the currency market, we enter into such foreign exchange contracts as described above to substantially mitigate our currency risk. in 2020, 2019 and 2018, approximately 76 percent, 74 percent and 76 percent of our revenues were generated in u.s. dollars. the unfavorable effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, principally as a result of the strength of the u.s. dollar, has an immaterial on our revenue in the year ended october 31, 2020. we calculate the impact of foreign currency exchange rates movements by applying the actual foreign currency exchange rates in effect during the last month of each quarter to the current year to both the applicable current and prior year periods. we also performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10 percent adverse movement in foreign exchange rates to the hedging contracts and the underlying exposures described above. as of october 31, 2020 and 2019, the analysis indicated that these hypothetical market movements would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. interest rate risk a change in interest rates on long-term debt impacts the fair value of the company's fixed-rate long-term debt but not the company's earnings or cash flow because the interest on such debt is fixed. generally, the fair market value of fixed-rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. as of october 31, 2020, a hypothetical 10 percent increase in interest rates would have decreased the fair value of the company's fixed-rate long-term debt by approximately $18 million. however, since the company currently has no plans to repurchase its outstanding fixed-rate instruments before their maturity nor do the investors in our fixed-rate debt obligations have the right to demand we pay off these obligations prior to maturity, the impact of market interest rate fluctuations on the company's fixed-rate long-term debt does not affect the company's results of operations or stockholders' equity. 49 table of contents