risk factors the company's business prospects are subject to various risks and uncertainties that impact its business. the most important of these risks and uncertainties are as follows: risks related to the company's business environment any reduction in global economic activity may harm the company's business and financial condition. the demand for the company's services, in particular its staffing services, is highly dependent upon the state of the economy and upon the staffing needs of the company's clients. certain of the company's markets have recently experienced economic uncertainty characterized by increasing unemployment, limited availability of credit and decreased consumer and business spending. in addition, certain geopolitical events, including ongoing trade negotiations and the ongoing negotiation of the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union ( brexit ), have caused significant economic, market, political and regulatory uncertainty in some of the company's markets. any decline in the economic condition or employment levels of the u.s. or of any of the foreign countries in which the company does business, or in the economic condition of any region of any of the foregoing, or in any specific industry may severely reduce the demand for the company's services and thereby significantly decrease the company's revenues and profits. further, continued or intensifying economic, political or regulatory uncertainty in the company's markets could reduce demand for the company's services. the company's business depends on a strong reputation and anything that harms its reputation will likely harm its results . as a provider of temporary and permanent staffing solutions as well as consultant services, the company's reputation is dependent upon the performance of the employees it places with its clients and the services rendered by its consultants. the company depends on its reputation and name recognition to secure engagements and to hire qualified employees and consultants. if the company's clients become dissatisfied with the performance of those employees or consultants or if any of those employees or consultants engage in or are believed to have engaged in conduct that is harmful to the company's clients, the company's ability to maintain or expand its client base may be harmed. the company faces risks in operating internationally. the company depends on operations in international markets for a significant portion of its business. these international operations are subject to a number of risks, including general political and economic conditions in those foreign countries, the burden of complying with various foreign laws and technical standards and unpredictable changes in foreign regulations, u.s. legal requirements governing u.s. companies operating in foreign countries, legal and cultural differences in the conduct of business, potential adverse tax consequences and difficulty in staffing and managing international operations. in addition, the company's business may be affected by foreign currency exchange fluctuations. in particular, the company is subject to risk in translating its results in foreign currencies into the u.s. dollar. if the value of the u.s. dollar strengthens relative to other currencies, the company's reported income from these operations could decrease. the value of the u.s. dollar has recently strengthened considerably against a number of major foreign currencies, and 4 a continuation or extension of this strength relative to these other currencies could adversely impact the company's reported income from its international markets and cause its revenue in such markets, when translated into u.s. dollars, to decline. significant u.k. or european developments stemming from the u.k.'s decision to withdraw from the european union could have a material adverse effect on the company . in the past several years, the european market experienced economic uncertainty, which adversely affected, and the return of which may in the future adversely affect, the company's operations in europe. in particular, brexit has contributed to, and may continue to contribute to, european economic, market and regulatory uncertainty and could adversely affect european or worldwide economic, market, regulatory, or political conditions. to the extent that adverse economic conditions and uncertainty in europe (related to brexit or otherwise) worsen, demand for the company's services may decline, which could significantly harm its business and results of operations. natural disasters and unusual weather conditions, pandemic outbreaks, terrorist acts, global political events and other serious catastrophic events could disrupt business and otherwise materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. with operations in many states and multiple foreign countries, we are subject to numerous risks outside of our control, including risks arising from natural disasters, such as fires, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, unusual weather conditions, pandemic outbreaks and other global health emergencies, terrorist acts or disruptive global political events, or similar disruptions that could materially adversely affect our business and financial performance. for example, the company's operations are heavily dependent on the ability of employees and consultants to travel from business to business and from location to location. any public health emergencies, including a real or potential global pandemic such as those caused by the avian flu, sars, ebola, coronavirus, or even a particularly virulent flu, could decrease demand for our services and our ability to offer them. uncharacteristic or significant weather conditions can affect travel and the ability of businesses to remain open, which could lead to decreased ability to offer our services and materially adversely affect our short-term results of operations. in addition, these events could result in delays in placing employees and consultants, the temporary disruption in the transport of employees and consultants overseas and domestically, the inability of employees and consultants to reach or have transportation to clients directly affected by such events and disruption to our information systems. although it is not possible to predict such events or their consequences, these events could materially adversely affect our reputation, business and financial condition. risks related to the company's operations the company may be unable to find sufficient candidates for its staffing business. the company's staffing services business consists of the placement of individuals seeking employment. there can be no assurance that candidates for employment will continue to seek employment through the company. candidates generally seek temporary or regular positions through multiple sources, including the company and its competitors. unemployment in the united states has been low in the past couple of years and has recently decreased further; some economists have speculated that in certain markets, the u.s. could be at or near full employment. this phenomenon has made finding sufficient eligible candidates to meet employers' demands more challenging and further decreases in the employment rates could compound these difficulties. any shortage of candidates could materially adversely affect the company. the company operates in a highly competitive business and may be unable to retain clients or market share. the staffing services business is highly competitive and, because it is a service business, the barriers to entry are quite low. there are many competitors, some of which have greater resources than the company, and new competitors are entering the market all the time. in addition, long-term contracts form a negligible portion of the company's revenue. therefore, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to retain clients or market share in the future. nor can there be any assurance that the company will, in light of competitive pressures, be able to remain profitable or, if profitable, maintain its current profit margins. the company may incur potential liability to employees and clients . the company's temporary services business entails employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients' workplaces. the company's ability to control the workplace environment is limited. as the employer of record of its temporary employees, the company incurs a risk of liability to its temporary employees for various workplace events, including claims of physical injury, discrimination, harassment or failure to protect confidential personal information. while such claims have not historically had a material adverse effect upon the company, there can be no assurance that such claims in the future will not result in adverse publicity or have a material adverse effect upon the company. the company also incurs a risk of liability to its clients resulting from allegations of errors, omissions or theft by its temporary employees, or allegations of misuse of client confidential information. in many cases, the company has agreed to indemnify its clients in respect of these types of claims. the company maintains insurance with respect to many of such claims. while such claims have not historically had a material adverse effect upon the company, there can be no assurance that the company will continue to be able to obtain insurance at a cost that does not have a material adverse effect upon the company or that such claims (whether by reason of the company not having sufficient 5 insurance or by reason of such claims being outside the scope of the company's insurance) will not have a material adverse effect upon the company. the company is dependent on its management personnel and employees and a failure to attract and retain such personnel could harm its business . the company is engaged in the services business. as such, its success or failure is highly dependent upon the performance of its management personnel and employees, rather than upon technology or upon tangible assets (of which the company has few). there can be no assurance that the company will be able to attract and retain the personnel that are essential to its success. the company's results of operations and ability to grow could be materially negatively affected if it cannot successfully keep pace with technological changes impacting the development and implementation of its services and the evolving needs of its client s. the company's success depends on its ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes affecting both the development and implementation of its services and the staffing needs of its clients. technological advances such as artificial intelligence, machine learning, and automation are impacting industries served by all our lines of business. in addition, the company's business relies on a variety of technologies, including those that support hiring and tracking, order management, billing, and client data analytics. if the company does not sufficiently invest in new technology and industry developments, appropriately implement new technologies, or evolve its business at sufficient speed and scale in response to such developments, or if it does not make the right strategic investments to respond to these developments, the company's services, results of operations, and ability to develop and maintain its business could be negatively affected. the demand for the company's services related to sarbanes-oxley or other regulatory compliance may decline . the operations of both the staffing services business and protiviti include services related to sarbanes-oxley and other regulatory compliance. there can be no assurance that there will be ongoing demand for these services. for example, the jumpstart our business startup ( jobs ) act signed into law in april of 2012 allows most companies going public in the u.s. to defer implementation of some of the provisions of sarbanes-oxley for up to five years after their initial public offering. similarly there are a number of proposals currently being considered by the u.s. congress to further delay or, in some cases, remove the requirements of sarbanes-oxley for a number of public companies. further, many analysts are expecting the u.s. congress and president trump to seek to repeal or modify legislation that is viewed as having over-regulated certain sectors of the u.s. economy and decreased the incentive for u.s. companies to go public and their ability to effectively compete with foreign competition. these or other similar modifications of the regulatory requirements could decrease demand for protiviti's services. long-term contracts do not comprise a significant portion of the company's revenue. because long-term contracts are not a significant part of the company's staffing services business, future results cannot be reliably predicted by considering past trends or extrapolating past results. additionally, the company's clients will frequently enter into non-exclusive arrangements with several firms, which the client is generally able to terminate on short notice and without penalty. the nature of these arrangements further exacerbates the difficulty in predicting our future results. protiviti may be unable to attract and retain key personnel. protiviti is a services business, and is dependent upon its ability to attract and retain qualified, skilled personnel. while protiviti has retained its key personnel to date, there can be no assurance that it will continue to be able to do so. protiviti operates in a highly competitive business and faces competitors who are significantly larger and have more established reputations. protiviti operates in a highly competitive business. as with the company's staffing services business, the barriers to entry are quite low. there are many competitors, some of which have greater resources than protiviti and many of which have been in operation far longer than protiviti . in particular, protiviti faces competition from the big four accounting firms, which have been in operation for a considerable period of time and have established reputations and client bases. because the principal factors upon which competition is based are reputation, technology, tools, project methodologies, price of services and depth of skills of personnel, there can be no assurance that protiviti will be successful in attracting and retaining clients or be able to maintain the technology, personnel and other requirements to successfully compete. protiviti's operations could subject it to liability. the business of protiviti consists of providing business consulting and internal audit services. liability could be incurred, or litigation could be instituted against the company or protiviti for claims related to these activities or to prior transactions or activities. there can be no assurance that such liability or litigation will not have a material adverse impact on protiviti or the company. 6 legal and regulatory risks the company and certain subsidiaries are defendants in several lawsuits that could cause the company to incur substantial liabilities . the company and certain subsidiaries are defendants in several actual or asserted class and representative action lawsuits brought by or on behalf of the company's current and former employees alleging violations of federal and state law with respect to certain wage and hour related matters, as well as claims challenging the company's compliance with the fair credit reporting act. the various claims made in one or more of such lawsuits include, among other things, the misclassification of certain employees as exempt employees under applicable law, failure to comply with wage statement requirements, failure to compensate certain employees for time spent performing activities related to the interviewing process, and other related wage and hour violations. such suits seek, as applicable, unspecified amounts for unpaid overtime compensation, penalties, and other damages, as well as attorneys' fees. it is not possible to predict the outcome of these lawsuits. however, these lawsuits may consume substantial amounts of the company's financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the lawsuits. in addition, the company and its subsidiaries may become subject to similar lawsuits in the same or other jurisdictions, or to various other claims, disputes, and legal or regulatory proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. an unfavorable outcome with respect to these lawsuits and any future lawsuits or regulatory proceedings could, individually or in the aggregate, cause the company to incur substantial liabilities or impact its operations in such a way that may have a material adverse effect upon the company's business, financial condition or results of operations. furthermore, any future lawsuits, claims, disputes, or legal or regulatory proceedings may also consume substantial amounts of the company's financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, regardless of the ultimate outcome. in addition, an unfavorable outcome in one or more of these cases could cause the company to change its compensation plans for its employees, which could have a material adverse effect upon the company's business. government regulations may result in prohibition or restriction of certain types of employment services or the imposition of additional licensing or tax requirements that may reduce the company's future earnings. in many jurisdictions in which the company operates, the employment services industry is heavily regulated. for example, governmental regulations in some countries restrict the length of contracts and the industries in which the company's employees may be used. in other countries, special taxes, fees or costs are imposed in connection with the use of its employees. additionally, trade unions in some countries have used the political process to target the industry, in an effort to increase the regulatory burden and expense associated with offering or utilizing temporary staffing solutions. the countries in which we operate may, among other things: create additional regulations that prohibit or restrict the types of employment services that the company currently provides; require new or additional benefits be paid to the company's employees; require the company to obtain additional licensing to provide employment services; or increase taxes, such as sales or value-added taxes, payable by the providers of temporary workers. any future regulations may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and financial results because they may make it more difficult or expensive for the company to continue to provide employment services. additionally, as the company expands existing service offerings, adds new service offerings, or enters new markets, it may become subject to additional restrictions and regulations which may impede its business, increase costs and impact profitability. the company's business is subject to extensive government regulation and a failure to comply with regulations could harm its business. the company's business is subject to regulation or licensing in many states in the u.s. and in certain foreign countries. while the company has had no material difficulty complying with regulations in the past, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to continue to obtain all necessary licenses or approvals or that the cost of compliance will not prove to be material. any inability of the company to comply with government regulation or licensing requirements could materially adversely affect the company. further, changes to existing regulation or licensing requirements could impose additional costs and other burdens or limitations on the company's operations. in addition, the company's temporary services business entails employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients' workplaces. increased government regulation of the workplace or of the employer-employee relationship, or judicial or administrative proceedings related to such regulation, could materially adversely affect the company. in addition, to the extent that government regulation imposes increased costs upon the company, such as unemployment insurance taxes, there can be no assurance that such costs will not adversely impact the company's profit margins. further, lawsuits or other proceedings related to the company's compliance with government regulations or licensing requirements could materially adversely affect the company. for example, the company is currently named as a defendant in litigation challenging its compliance with the fair credit reporting act. it is not possible to predict the outcome of such litigation; however, such litigation or any future lawsuits or proceedings related to the company's compliance with government regulation or licensing requirements could consume substantial amounts 7 of the company's financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, regardless of the ultimate outcome of any such lawsuits or other proceedings. an unfavorable outcome with respect to such litigation or any future lawsuits or proceedings could, individually or in the aggregate, cause the company to incur substantial liabilities that may have a material adverse effect upon the company's business, financial condition or results of operations. the company's compliance policies and controls may not prevent violations that could result in significant fines and penalties. the company could also be exposed to fines and penalties under u.s. or local jurisdiction trade sanctions and controls as well as laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials including the foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws that prohibit payments to foreign officials. failure to comply with local laws in a particular market may result in substantial liability and could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. although the company has implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, it cannot be sure that its employees, contractors or agents will not violate such policies. any such violations could materially damage the company's reputation, brand, business and operating results. further, changes in u.s. laws and policies governing foreign trade or investment and use of foreign operations or workers, and any negative sentiments towards the united states as a result of such changes, could adversely affect the company's operations. health care reform could increase the costs of the company's temporary staffing operations . in march 2010, the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (the ppaca ) was signed into law in the united states. in 2015, the company redesigned its employee benefits to offer health insurance coverage to its temporary candidates in order to meet the requirements of the ppaca's employer mandate. president trump and the u.s. congress have and likely will continue to seek to modify, repeal, or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the ppaca. the u.s. congress has made several attempts to repeal or modify the ppaca and in 2019, the u.s. court of appeals for the fifth circuit invalidated significant portions of the ppaca. in 2020, the u.s. house of representatives petitioned the u.s. supreme court to review the fifth circuit's decision. it is unclear at this point what the scope of any future such legislation will be and when it will become effective. because of the uncertainty surrounding this replacement health care reform legislation, we cannot predict with any certainty the likely impact of the ppaca's repeal or the adoption of any other health care reform legislation on the company's financial condition or operating results. whether or not there is alternative health care legislation enacted in the u.s., there is likely to be significant disruption to the health care market in the coming months and years and the costs of the company's health care expenditures may increase. u.s. federal tax regulations and interpretations could adversely affect the company. on december 22, 2017, the tax cuts and jobs act (the tcja ) was signed into law. notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of these changes on the company's results of operations will likely evolve as new regulations and interpretations relating to the tcja are implemented. in addition, various political figures have pledged their support to overturning or modifying key aspects of the tcja which could further increase the uncertainty relating to the impact of this or any future tax legislation on the company's results of operations. risks related to the company's information technology, cybersecurity and data protection the company's computer and communications hardware and software systems are vulnerable to damage and interruption. the company's ability to manage its operations successfully is critical to its success and largely depends upon the efficient and uninterrupted operation of its computer and communications hardware and software systems, some of which are managed by third-party vendors. the company's primary computer systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events and errors in usage by the company's employees and those of the company's vendors. the company's employees or vendors may have access or exposure to personally identifiable or otherwise confidential information and customer data and systems, the misuse of which could result in legal liability. cyber-attacks, including attacks motivated by grievances against the business services industry in general or against the company in particular, may disable or damage its systems. it is possible that the company's security controls or those of its third-party vendors over personal and other data and other practices it follows may not prevent the improper access to or disclosure of personally identifiable or otherwise confidential information. such disclosure or damage to the company's systems could harm its reputation and subject it to government sanctions and liability under its contracts and laws that protect personal data and confidential information, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. the potential risk of security breaches and cyber-attacks may increase as the company introduces new service offerings. 8 changes in data privacy and protection laws and regulations in respect of control of personal information could increase the company's costs or otherwise adversely impact its operations. in the ordinary course of business, the company collects, uses, and retains personal information from its employees, employment candidates, and contractors, including, without limitation, full names, government-issued identification numbers, addresses, birth dates, and payroll-related information. the possession and use of personal information in conducting the company's business subjects it to a variety of complex and evolving domestic and foreign laws and regulations regarding data privacy, protection and security, which, in many cases, apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information among the company and its subsidiaries. for example, the european union's general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which became effective in may 2018, imposes stringent operational requirements for entities processing personal information, such as strong safeguards for data transfers to countries outside the european union and strong enforcement authorities and mechanisms. complying with the enhanced obligations imposed by the gdpr and other current and future laws and regulations relating to data transfer, residency, privacy and protection has increased and may continue to increase the company's operating costs and require significant management time and attention, while any failure by the company or its subsidiaries to comply with applicable laws could result in governmental enforcement actions, fines, and other penalties that could potentially have an adverse effect on the company's operations and reputation. risks related to the company's internal controls and accounting policies failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in the company's financial reporting. failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in the company's financial reporting. if the company's management is unable to certify the effectiveness of its internal controls or if its independent registered public accounting firm cannot render an opinion on the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting, or if material weaknesses in the company's internal controls are identified, the company could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence. in addition, if the company does not maintain adequate financial and management personnel, processes and controls, it may not be able to accurately report its financial performance on a timely basis, which could cause its stock price to fall. failure to identify and respond to risk issues in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business. although we have processes in place to attempt to identify and respond to risk issues in a timely manner, our efforts may not be sufficient. the company's culture may not sufficiently encourage timely identification and escalation of significant risk issues . the collective impact of the tone at the top, tone in the middle and tone at the bottom on risk management, compliance and responsible business behavior has a huge effect on timely escalation of risk issues, particularly those affecting core operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for further discussion of the impact of foreign currency exchange rates on the company's results of operations and financial condition. years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018 revenues. the company's revenues were $6.07 billion for the year ended december 31, 2019, increasing by 4.7% compared to $5.80 billion for the year ended december 31, 2018. revenues from foreign operations represented 22% and 24% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. the company analyzes its revenues for three reportable segments: temporary and consultant staffing, permanent placement staffing and risk consulting and internal audit services. in 2019, revenues for all three of the company's reportable segments were up compared to 2018. revenue growth was strongest domestically. risk consulting and internal audit services continued to post strong growth rates. contributing factors for each reportable segment are discussed below in further detail. temporary and consultant staffing revenues were $4.41 billion for the year ended december 31, 2019, increasing by 1.9% compared to revenues of $4.33 billion for the year ended december 31, 2018. key drivers of temporary and consultant staffing revenues include average hourly bill rates and the number of hours worked by the company's engagement professionals on client engagements. on an as adjusted basis, temporary and consultant staffing revenues increased 3.8% for 2019, compared to 2018, due primarily to a 5.2% increase in average bill rates, partially offset by fewer hours worked by the company's engagement professionals. in the u.s., 2019 revenues increased 3.9% on an as reported basis and 4.1% on an as adjusted basis, compared to 2018. for the company's international operations, 2019 revenues decreased 4.8% on an as reported basis and increased 2.8% on an as adjusted basis, compared to 2018. permanent placement staffing revenues were $533 million for the year ended december 31, 2019, increasing by 4.2% compared to revenues of $512 million for the year ended december 31, 2018. key drivers of permanent placement staffing revenues consist of the number of candidate placements and average fees earned per placement. on an as adjusted basis, 16 permanent placement staffing revenues increased 5.6% for 2019 compared to 2018, driven by increases in number of placements and average fees earned per placement. in the u.s., 2019 revenues increased 6.5% on an as reported basis and 6.7% on an as adjusted basis, compared to 2018. for the company's international operations, 2019 revenues decreased 0.8% on an as reported basis, and increased 2.9% on an as adjusted basis, compared to 2018. historically, demand for permanent placement services is even more sensitive to economic and labor market conditions than demand for temporary and consulting staffing and this is expected to continue. risk consulting and internal audit services revenues were $1.13 billion for the year ended december 31, 2019, increasing by 17.9% compared to revenues of $958 million for the year ended december 31, 2018. key drivers of risk consulting and internal audit services revenues are the billable hours worked by consultants on client engagements and average hourly bill rates. on an as adjusted basis, risk consulting and internal audit services revenues increased 15.0% for 2019 compared to 2018, driven primarily by an increase in billable hours. in the u.s., 2019 revenues increased 16.2% on an as reported basis, or 16.5% on an as adjusted basis, compared to 2018. for the company's international operations, 2019 revenues increased 24.1% on an as reported basis, or 10.1% on an as adjusted basis, compared to 2018. a reconciliation of the non-gaap year-over-year revenue growth rates to the as reported year-over-year revenue growth rates for the year ended december 31, 2019, is presented in the following table: global united states international temporary and consultant staffing as reported 1.9 % 3.9 % -4.8 % billing days impact 0.2 % -0.5 % currency impact 1.1 % 4.8 % intercompany adjustments 0.8 % 3.3 % as adjusted 3.8 % 4.1 % 2.8 % permanent placement staffing as reported 4.2 % 6.5 % -0.8 % billing days impact 0.1 % 0.2 % -0.5 % currency impact 1.3 % 4.2 % as adjusted 5.6 % 6.7 % 2.9 % risk consulting and internal audit services as reported 17.9 % 16.2 % 24.1 % billing days impact 0.3 % -0.6 % currency impact 1.0 % 4.0 % intercompany adjustments -3.9 % -17.4 % as adjusted 15.0 % 16.5 % 10.1 % gross margin . the company's gross margin dollars were $2.53 billion for the year ended december 31, 2019, up 5.0% from $2.41 billion for the year ended december 31, 2018. contributing factors for each reportable segment are discussed below in further detail. gross margin dollars for temporary and consultant staffing represent revenues less costs of services, which consist of payroll, payroll taxes and benefit costs for engagement professionals, and reimbursable expenses. the key drivers of gross margin are: i) pay-bill spreads, which represent the differential between wages paid to engagement professionals and amounts billed to clients; ii) fringe costs, which are primarily composed of payroll taxes and benefit costs for temporary and consultant staffing employees; and iii) conversion revenues, which are earned when a temporary position converts to a permanent position with the company's client. gross margin dollars for the company's temporary and consultant staffing division were $1.68 billion for the year ended december 31, 2019, up 2.9% from $1.63 billion for the year ended december 31, 2018. as a percentage of revenues, gross margin dollars for temporary and consultant staffing were 38.0% in 2019, up from 37.6% in 2018. this year-over-year improvement in gross margin percentage was primarily attributable to higher pay-bill spreads. gross margin dollars for permanent placement staffing represent revenues less reimbursable expenses. gross margin dollars for the company's permanent placement staffing division were $532 million for the year ended december 31, 2019, up 4.2% from $511 million for the year ended december 31, 2018. because reimbursable expenses for permanent placement staffing services are de minimis, the increase in gross margin dollars is substantially explained by the increase in revenues previously discussed. 17 gross margin dollars for risk consulting and internal audit services represent revenues less costs of services, which consist primarily of professional staff payroll, payroll taxes, benefit costs and reimbursable expenses. the primary drivers of risk consulting and internal audit services gross margin are: i) the relative composition of and number of professional staff and their respective pay and bill rates; and ii) staff utilization, which is the relationship of time spent on client engagements in proportion to the total time available for the company's risk consulting and internal audit services staff. gross margin dollars for the company's risk consulting and internal audit division were $321 million for the year ended december 31, 2019, up 19.0% from $269 million for the year ended december 31, 2018. as a percentage of revenues, gross margin dollars for risk consulting and internal audit services were 28.4% in 2019, up from 28.1% in 2018. the year-over-year improvement in gross margin percentage was due primarily to improved staff utilization. selling, general and administrative expenses . the company's selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of staff compensation, advertising, variable overhead, depreciation and occupancy costs. the company's selling, general and administrative expenses were $1.91 billion for the year ended december 31, 2019, up 4.8% from $1.82 billion for the year ended december 31, 2018. as a percentage of revenues, the company's selling, general and administrative expenses were 31.4% for both the years ended december 31, 2019, and 2018. contributing factors for each reportable segment are discussed below in further detail. selling, general and administrative expenses for the company's temporary and consultant staffing division were $1.27 billion for the year ended december 31, 2019, increasing by 3.5% from $1.22 billion for the year ended december 31, 2018. as a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses for temporary and consultant staffing were 28.7% in 2019, up from 28.3% in 2018 due primarily to negative leverage resulting from the company's international operations. selling, general and administrative expenses for the company's permanent placement staffing division were $449 million for the year ended december 31, 2019, increasing by 6.7% from $420 million for the year ended december 31, 2018. as a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses for permanent placement staffing services were 84.1% in 2019, up from 82.1% in 2018 due primarily to negative leverage resulting from the company's international operations. selling, general and administrative expenses for the company's risk consulting and internal audit services division were $193 million for the year ended december 31, 2019, increasing by 9.6% from $176 million for the year ended december 31, 2018. as a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses for risk consulting and internal audit services were 17.1% in 2019, down from 18.4% in 2018. the decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue is primarily due to positive operating leverage resulting from increased revenue. operating income . the company's total operating income was $622 million, or 10.2% of revenues, for the year ended december 31, 2019, up 5.6% from $589 million, or 10.2% of revenues, for the year ended december 31, 2018. for the company's temporary and consultant staffing division, operating income was $410 million, or 9.3% of applicable revenues, up 1.3% from $405 million, or 9.3% of applicable revenues, in 2018. for the company's permanent placement staffing division, operating income was $84 million, or 15.7% of applicable revenues, down 7.6% from operating income of $91 million, or 17.7% of applicable revenues, in 2018. for the company's risk consulting and internal audit services division, operating income was $128 million, or 11.3% of applicable revenues, up 36.8% from operating income of $93 million, or 9.7% of applicable revenues, in 2018. provision for income taxes. the provision for income taxes was 27.4% and 26.6% for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. the higher tax rate in 2019 is primarily due to an increase in permanent non-deductible expenses and a return-to-provision tax rate benefit from changes the company made in connection with the tax cuts and jobs act in 2018. years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017 a discussion of changes regarding our financial condition and results of operations for the year ended december 31, 2018, compared to the year ended december 31, 2017, can be found in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in part ii, item 7 of the company's annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2018, filed with the sec on february 15, 2019, which is available free of charge on the sec's website at www.sec.gov and at www.roberthalf.com/investor-center. liquidity and capital resources the change in the company's liquidity during the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018, is primarily the net effect of funds generated by operations and the funds used for capital expenditures, payments for employee deferred compensation plans, repurchases of common stock, and payment of dividends. 18 cash and cash equivalents were $270 million and $277 million at december 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. operating activities provided $520 million during the year ended december 31, 2019, offset by $102 million and $423 million of net cash used in investing activities and financing activities, respectively. operating activities provided $572 million during the year ended december 31, 2018, offset by $89 million and $490 million of net cash used in investing activities and financing activities, respectively. operating activities net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2019, was $520 million. this was composed of net income of $454 million adjusted upward for non-cash items of $118 million, offset by changes in working capital of $52 million. net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2018, was $572 million. this was composed of net income of $434 million adjusted upward for non-cash items of $107 million and net cash provided by changes in working capital of $31 million. investing activities cash used in investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2019, was $102 million. this was composed of capital expenditures of $59 million and net payments for employee deferred compensation plans of $43 million. cash used in investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2018, was $89 million. this was primarily composed of capital expenditures of $43 million and net payments for employee deferred compensation plans of $46 million. financing activities cash used in financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2019, was $423 million. this included repurchases of $277 million in common stock and $146 million in dividends paid to stockholders. cash used in financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2018, was $490 million. this included repurchases of $354 million in common stock and $136 million in dividends paid to stockholders. as of december 31, 2019, the company is authorized to repurchase, from time to time, up to 2.5 million additional shares of the company's common stock on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, depending on market conditions. during the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018, the company repurchased approximately 4.3 million shares and 5.6 million shares of common stock on the open market for a total cost of $250 million and $351 million, respectively. additional stock repurchases were made in connection with employee stock plans, whereby company shares were tendered by employees for the payment of applicable statutory withholding taxes. during the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018, such repurchases totaled approximately 0.4 million shares and 0.2 million shares at a cost of $22 million and $14 million, respectively. repurchases of shares have been funded with cash generated from operations. the company's working capital at december 31, 2019, included $270 million in cash and cash equivalents. the company expects that internally generated cash will be sufficient to support the working capital needs of the company, the company's fixed payments, dividends, and other obligations on both a short-term and long-term basis. in march 2019, the company entered into an uncommitted credit facility (the credit agreement ) of up to $100 million. the company may request borrowings under the credit agreement that are denominated in u.s. dollars and each request is subject to approval by the lender. the company must repay the aggregate principal amount of loans outstanding under the credit agreement on the termination date of each borrowing. borrowings under the credit agreement will bear interest in accordance with the terms of the borrowing, which typically will be calculated according to the london interbank offered rate plus an applicable margin. there were no borrowings under the credit agreement as of december 31, 2019. the company intends to renew this facility prior to its march 19, 2020, expiration. on february 12, 2020, the company announced a quarterly dividend of $.34 per share to be paid to all shareholders of record on february 25, 2020. the dividend will be paid on march 16, 2020. the company's cash flows generated from operations are also the primary source for funding various contractual obligations. the table below summarizes the company's major commitments as of december 31, 2019 (in thousands): payments due by period contractual obligations 2020 2021 and 2022 2023 and 2024 thereafter total long-term debt obligations $ 252 $ 252 $ $ $ 504 operating lease obligations 82,025 125,715 86,046 45,458 339,244 purchase obligations 76,783 54,942 6,643 7,659 146,027 other liabilities 1,528 1,461 1,212 5,535 9,736 total $ 160,588 $ 182,370 $ 93,901 $ 58,652 $ 495,511 19 long-term debt obligations consist of promissory notes and related interest as well as other forms of indebtedness issued in connection with certain acquisitions and other payment obligations. operating lease obligations consist of undiscounted minimum rental commitments for 2020 and thereafter under non-cancelable lease contracts executed as of december 31, 2019. purchase obligations consist of purchase commitments primarily related to telecom service agreements, software subscriptions, and computer hardware and software maintenance agreements. other liabilities consist of asset retirement and deferred compensation obligations. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk because a portion of the company's net revenues are derived from its operations outside the u.s. and are denominated in local currencies, the company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations. the company's exposure to foreign currency exchange rates relates primarily to the company's foreign subsidiaries. exchange rates impact the u.s. dollar value of the company's reported revenues, expenses, earnings, assets and liabilities. for the year ended december 31, 2019, approximately 22% of the company's revenues were generated outside of the united states. these operations transact business in their functional currency, which is the same as their local currency. as a result, fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar, particularly the canadian dollar, british pound, euro, and australian dollar have an impact on the company's reported results. under gaap, revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into u.s. dollars at the monthly average exchange rates prevailing during the period. consequently, as the value of the u.s. dollar changes relative to the currencies of the company's non-u.s. markets, the company's reported results vary. during 2019, the u.s. dollar fluctuated, but generally strengthened, against the primary currencies in which the company conducts business, compared to one year ago. currency exchange rates had the effect of decreasing reported service revenues by $62.8 million, or 1.1%, in 2019 compared to prior year. the general strengthening of the u.s. dollar also affected the reported level of expenses incurred in the company's foreign operations. because substantially all of the company's foreign operations generated revenues and incurred expenses within the same country and currency, the effect of lower reported revenues is largely offset by the decrease in reported operating expenses. reported net income was $2.5 million, or 0.6%, lower in the year ended december 31, 2019, compared to prior year due to the effect of currency exchange rates. for the one month ended january 31, 2020, the u.s. dollar has strengthened against the euro, british pound, canadian dollar, and australian dollar since december 31, 2019. if currency exchange rates were to remain at january 2020 levels throughout 2020, the company's 2020 full-year reported revenues would be impacted unfavorably, mostly offset by a favorable impact to operating expenses. thus, the impact to reported net income would likely be immaterial. fluctuations in currency exchange rates impact the u.s. dollar amount of the company's stockholders' equity. the assets and liabilities of the company's non-u.s. subsidiaries are translated into u.s. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at period end. the resulting translation adjustments are recorded in stockholders' equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. although currency fluctuations impact the company's reported results and shareholders' equity, such fluctuations generally do not affect cash flow or result in actual economic gains or losses. the company generally has few cross-border transfers of funds, except for transfers to the u.s. for payment of intercompany loans, working capital loans made between the u.s. and the company's foreign subsidiaries, and dividends from the company's foreign subsidiaries. 20quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company's market risk sensitive instruments do not subject the company to material market risk exposures. 8 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company's market risk sensitive instruments do not subject the company to material market risk exposures. 12 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations. the company's exposure to foreign currency exchange rates relates primarily to the company's foreign subsidiaries. exchange rates impact the u.s. dollar value of the company's reported earnings, investments in its foreign subsidiaries, and the intercompany transactions with its foreign subsidiaries. for 2003, approximately 18% of the company's revenues were generated outside of the united states. these operations transact business in their functional currency. as a result, fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar have an impact on the company's reported results. revenues and 13 expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into u.s. dollars at the monthly average exchange rates prevailing during the period. consequently, as the value of the u.s. dollar changes relative to the currencies of the company's non-u.s. markets, the company's reported results vary. fluctuations in currency exchange rates impact the u.s. dollar amount of the company's stockholders' equity. the assets and liabilities of the company's non-u.s. subsidiaries are translated into u.s. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at year-end. the resulting translation adjustments are recorded in stockholders' equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). 14 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskrisk factors the company business prospects are subject to various risks and uncertainties that impact its business. the most important of these risks and uncertainties are as follows: business highly dependent upon the state of the economy. the demand for the company services, in particular its staffing services, is highly dependent upon the state of the economy and upon the staffing needs of the company clients. any variation in the economic condition or unemployment levels of the u.s. or of any of the foreign countries in which the company does business, or in the economic condition of any region of any of the foregoing, or in any specific industry may severely reduce the demand for the company services and thereby significantly decrease the company revenues and profits. availability of candidates. the company staffing services business consists of the placement of individuals seeking employment. there can be no assurance that candidates for employment will continue to seek employment through the company. candidates generally seek temporary or regular positions through multiple sources, including the company and its competitors. any shortage of candidates could materially adversely affect the company. highly competitive business. the staffing services business is highly competitive and, because it is a service business, the barriers to entry are quite low. there are many competitors, some of which have greater resources than the company, and new competitors are entering the market all the time. in addition, long-term contracts form a negligible portion of the company revenue. therefore, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to retain clients or market share in the future. nor can there be any assurance that the company will, in light of competitive pressures, be able to remain profitable or, if profitable, maintain its current profit margins. reputation . the success of the company staffing and protiviti businesses is highly dependent upon their reputations. any event that adversely impacts the reputation of either business could materially adversely affect the company. potential liability to employees and clients. the company temporary services business entails employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients workplaces. the company ability to control the workplace environment is limited. as the employer of record of its temporary employees, the company incurs a risk of liability to its temporary employees for various workplace events, including claims of physical injury, discrimination or harassment. while such claims have not historically had a material adverse effect upon the company, there can be no assurance that such claims in the future will not result in adverse publicity or have a material adverse effect upon the company. the company also incurs a risk of liability to its clients resulting from allegations of errors, omissions or theft by its temporary employees. the company maintains insurance with respect to many of such claims. while such claims have not historically had a material adverse effect upon the company, there can be no assurance that the company will continue to be able to obtain insurance at a cost that does not have a material adverse effect upon the company or that such claims (whether by reason of the company not having insurance or by reason of such claims being outside the scope of the company insurance) will not have a material adverse effect upon the company. dependence upon personnel. the company is engaged in the services business. as such, its success or failure is highly dependent upon the performance of its management personnel and employees, rather than upon technology or upon tangible assets (of which the company has few). there can be no assurance that the company will be able to attract and retain the personnel that are essential to its success. government regulation. the company business is subject to regulation or licensing in many states and in certain foreign countries. while the company has had no material difficulty complying with regulations in the past, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to continue to obtain all necessary licenses or 5 approvals or that the cost of compliance will not prove to be material. any inability of the company to comply with government regulation or licensing requirements could materially adversely affect the company. government regulation of the workplace. the company temporary services business entails employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients workplaces. increased government regulation of the workplace or of the employer-employee relationship, or judicial or administrative proceedings related to such regulation, could materially adversely affect the company. demand for services. the operations of both the staffing services business and protiviti include services related to sarbanes-oxley and other regulatory compliance. there can be no assurance that there will be ongoing demand for these services. reliance on short-term contracts. because long-term contracts are not a significant part of the company staffing services business, future results cannot be reliably predicted by considering past trends or extrapolating past results. the company and certain subsidiaries are defendants in several class action lawsuits alleging various wage and hour claims that could cause the company to incur substantial liabilities . the company and certain subsidiaries are defendants in several class action lawsuits brought by or on behalf of the company current and former employees alleging violations of federal and state law with respect to certain wage and hour matters. the company and certain subsidiaries are currently defendants in two class action lawsuits in california and one class action lawsuit in massachusetts. all three lawsuits allege, among other things, the misclassification of certain employees as exempt employees under federal and state law and other related wage and hour violations and seek an unspecified amount for unpaid overtime compensation, statutory penalties, and other damages, as well as attorneys fees. it is not possible to predict the outcome of these lawsuits. however, these lawsuits may consume substantial amounts of the company financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the lawsuits. in addition, the company and its subsidiaries may become subject to similar lawsuits in other jurisdictions. an unfavorable outcome with respect to these lawsuits and any future lawsuits could, individually or in the aggregate, cause the company to incur substantial liabilities that may have a material adverse effect upon the company business, financial condition or results of operations. protiviti dependence on personnel. protiviti is a services business, and is dependent upon its ability to attract and retain personnel. while protiviti has retained its key personnel to date, there can be no assurance that it will continue to be able to do so. protiviti competition. protiviti operates in a highly competitive business. as with the company staffing services business, the barriers to entry are quite low. there are many competitors, some of which have greater resources than protiviti and many of which have been in operation far longer than protiviti . in particular, protiviti faces competition from the big four accounting firms, which have been in operation for a considerable period of time and have established reputations and client bases. because the principal factors upon which competition is based are reputation, technology, tools, project methodologies, price of services and depth of skills of personnel, there can be no assurance that protiviti will be successful in attracting and retaining clients. potential liability. the business of protiviti consists of providing internal audit and business and technology risk consulting services. liability could be incurred or litigation could be instituted against the company or protiviti for claims related to these activities or to prior transactions or activities. there can be no assurance that such liability or litigation will not have a material adverse impact on protiviti or the company.risk factors the company business prospects are subject to various risks and uncertainties that impact its business. the most important of these risks and uncertainties are as follows: business highly dependent upon the state of the economy. the demand for the company services, in particular its staffing services, is highly dependent upon the state of the economy and upon the staffing needs of the company clients. any variation in the economic condition or unemployment levels of the u.s. or of any of the foreign countries in which the company does business, or in the economic condition of any region of any of the foregoing, or in any specific industry may severely reduce the demand for the company services and thereby significantly decrease the company revenues and profits. availability of candidates. the company staffing services business consists of the placement of individuals seeking employment. there can be no assurance that candidates for employment will continue to seek employment through the company. candidates generally seek temporary or regular positions through multiple sources, including the company and its competitors. any shortage of candidates could materially adversely affect the company. highly competitive business. the staffing services business is highly competitive and, because it is a service business, the barriers to entry are quite low. there are many competitors, some of which have greater resources than the company, and new competitors are entering the market all the time. in addition, long-term contracts form a negligible portion of the company revenue. therefore, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to retain clients or market share in the future. nor can there be any assurance that the company will, in light of competitive pressures, be able to remain profitable or, if profitable, maintain its current profit margins. reputation . the success of the company staffing and protiviti businesses is highly dependent upon their reputations. any event that adversely impacts the reputation of either business could materially adversely affect the company. potential liability to employees and clients. the company temporary services business entails employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients workplaces. the company ability to control the workplace environment is limited. as the employer of record of its temporary employees, the company incurs a risk of liability to its temporary employees for various workplace events, including claims of physical injury, discrimination or harassment. while such claims have not historically had a material adverse effect upon the company, there can be no assurance that such claims in the future will not result in adverse publicity or have a material adverse effect upon the company. the company also incurs a risk of liability to its clients resulting from allegations of errors, omissions or theft by its temporary employees. the company maintains insurance with respect to many of such claims. while such claims have not historically had a material adverse effect upon the company, there can be no assurance that the company will continue to be able to obtain insurance at a cost that does not have a material adverse effect upon the company or that such claims (whether by reason of the company not having insurance or by reason of such claims being outside the scope of the company insurance) will not have a material adverse effect upon the company. dependence upon personnel. the company is engaged in the services business. as such, its success or failure is highly dependent upon the performance of its management personnel and employees, rather than upon technology or upon tangible assets (of which the company has few). there can be no assurance that the company will be able to attract and retain the personnel that are essential to its success. government regulation. the company business is subject to regulation or licensing in many states and in certain foreign countries. while the company has had no material difficulty complying with regulations in the past, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to continue to obtain all necessary licenses or 5 approvals or that the cost of compliance will not prove to be material. any inability of the company to comply with government regulation or licensing requirements could materially adversely affect the company. government regulation of the workplace. the company temporary services business entails employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients workplaces. increased government regulation of the workplace or of the employer-employee relationship, or judicial or administrative proceedings related to such regulation, could materially adversely affect the company. demand for services. the operations of both the staffing services business and protiviti include services related to sarbanes-oxley and other regulatory compliance. there can be no assurance that there will be ongoing demand for these services. reliance on short-term contracts. because long-term contracts are not a significant part of the company staffing services business, future results cannot be reliably predicted by considering past trends or extrapolating past results. the company and certain subsidiaries are defendants in several class and representative action lawsuits alleging various wage and hour claims that could cause the company to incur substantial liabilities . the company and certain subsidiaries are defendants in several class and representative action lawsuits brought by or on behalf of the company current and former employees alleging violations of federal and state law with respect to certain wage and hour matters. the company and certain subsidiaries are currently defendants in four such lawsuits in california and one such lawsuit in massachusetts. all five lawsuits allege, among other things, the misclassification of certain employees as exempt employees under federal and state law and other related wage and hour violations and seek an unspecified amount for unpaid overtime compensation, statutory penalties, and other damages, as well as attorneys fees. it is not possible to predict the outcome of these lawsuits. however, these lawsuits may consume substantial amounts of the company financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the lawsuits. in addition, the company and its subsidiaries may become subject to similar lawsuits in the same or other jurisdictions. an unfavorable outcome with respect to these lawsuits and any future lawsuits could, individually or in the aggregate, cause the company to incur substantial liabilities that may have a material adverse effect upon the company business, financial condition or results of operations. protiviti dependence on personnel. protiviti is a services business, and is dependent upon its ability to attract and retain personnel. while protiviti has retained its key personnel to date, there can be no assurance that it will continue to be able to do so. protiviti competition. protiviti operates in a highly competitive business. as with the company staffing services business, the barriers to entry are quite low. there are many competitors, some of which have greater resources than protiviti and many of which have been in operation far longer than protiviti . in particular, protiviti faces competition from the big four accounting firms, which have been in operation for a considerable period of time and have established reputations and client bases. because the principal factors upon which competition is based are reputation, technology, tools, project methodologies, price of services and depth of skills of personnel, there can be no assurance that protiviti will be successful in attracting and retaining clients. potential liability. the business of protiviti consists of providing internal audit and business and technology risk consulting services. liability could be incurred or litigation could be instituted against the company or protiviti for claims related to these activities or to prior transactions or activities. there can be no assurance that such liability or litigation will not have a material adverse impact on protiviti or the company. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations. the company exposure to foreign currency exchange rates relates primarily to the company foreign subsidiaries. exchange rates impact the u.s. dollar value of the company reported earnings, investments in its foreign subsidiaries, and the intercompany transactions with its foreign subsidiaries. for the year ended december 31, 2006, approximately 21% of the company revenues were generated outside of the united states. these operations transact business in their functional currency. as a result, fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar have an impact on the company reported results. revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into u.s. dollars at the monthly average exchange rates prevailing during the period. consequently, as the value of the u.s. dollar changes relative to the currencies of the company non-u.s. markets, the company reported results vary. fluctuations in currency exchange rates impact the u.s. dollar amount of the company stockholders equity. the assets and liabilities of the company non-u.s. subsidiaries are translated into u.s. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at period end. the resulting translation adjustments are recorded in stockholders equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. 18risk factors the company business prospects are subject to various risks and uncertainties that impact its business. the most important of these risks and uncertainties are as follows: business highly dependent upon the state of the economy. the demand for the company services, in particular its staffing services, is highly dependent upon the state of the economy and upon the staffing needs of the company clients. any variation in the economic condition or unemployment levels of the u.s. or of any of the foreign countries in which the company does business, or in the economic condition of any region of any of the foregoing, or in any specific industry may severely reduce the demand for the company services and thereby significantly decrease the company revenues and profits. 4 availability of candidates. the company staffing services business consists of the placement of individuals seeking employment. there can be no assurance that candidates for employment will continue to seek employment through the company. candidates generally seek temporary or regular positions through multiple sources, including the company and its competitors. any shortage of candidates could materially adversely affect the company. highly competitive business. the staffing services business is highly competitive and, because it is a service business, the barriers to entry are quite low. there are many competitors, some of which have greater resources than the company, and new competitors are entering the market all the time. in addition, long-term contracts form a negligible portion of the company revenue. therefore, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to retain clients or market share in the future. nor can there be any assurance that the company will, in light of competitive pressures, be able to remain profitable or, if profitable, maintain its current profit margins. reputation . the success of the company staffing and protiviti businesses is highly dependent upon their reputations. any event that adversely impacts the reputation of either business could materially adversely affect the company. potential liability to employees and clients. the company temporary services business entails employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients workplaces. the company ability to control the workplace environment is limited. as the employer of record of its temporary employees, the company incurs a risk of liability to its temporary employees for various workplace events, including claims of physical injury, discrimination or harassment. while such claims have not historically had a material adverse effect upon the company, there can be no assurance that such claims in the future will not result in adverse publicity or have a material adverse effect upon the company. the company also incurs a risk of liability to its clients resulting from allegations of errors, omissions or theft by its temporary employees. the company maintains insurance with respect to many of such claims. while such claims have not historically had a material adverse effect upon the company, there can be no assurance that the company will continue to be able to obtain insurance at a cost that does not have a material adverse effect upon the company or that such claims (whether by reason of the company not having insurance or by reason of such claims being outside the scope of the company insurance) will not have a material adverse effect upon the company. dependence upon personnel. the company is engaged in the services business. as such, its success or failure is highly dependent upon the performance of its management personnel and employees, rather than upon technology or upon tangible assets (of which the company has few). there can be no assurance that the company will be able to attract and retain the personnel that are essential to its success. government regulation. the company business is subject to regulation or licensing in many states and in certain foreign countries. while the company has had no material difficulty complying with regulations in the past, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to continue to obtain all necessary licenses or approvals or that the cost of compliance will not prove to be material. any inability of the company to comply with government regulation or licensing requirements could materially adversely affect the company. government regulation of the workplace. the company temporary services business entails employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients workplaces. increased government regulation of the workplace or of the employer-employee relationship, or judicial or administrative proceedings related to such regulation, could materially adversely affect the company. demand for services. the operations of both the staffing services business and protiviti include services related to sarbanes-oxley and other regulatory compliance. there can be no assurance that there will be ongoing demand for these services. 5 reliance on short-term contracts. because long-term contracts are not a significant part of the company staffing services business, future results cannot be reliably predicted by considering past trends or extrapolating past results. the company and certain subsidiaries are defendants in several class and representative action lawsuits alleging various wage and hour claims that could cause the company to incur substantial liabilities . the company and certain subsidiaries are defendants in several class and representative action lawsuits brought by or on behalf of the company current and former employees alleging violations of federal and state law with respect to certain wage and hour matters. the company and certain subsidiaries are currently defendants in four such lawsuits in california and one such lawsuit in massachusetts. all five lawsuits allege, among other things, the misclassification of certain employees as exempt employees under federal and state law and other related wage and hour violations and seek an unspecified amount for unpaid overtime compensation, statutory penalties, and other damages, as well as attorneys fees. it is not possible to predict the outcome of these lawsuits. however, these lawsuits may consume substantial amounts of the company financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the lawsuits. in addition, the company and its subsidiaries may become subject to similar lawsuits in the same or other jurisdictions. an unfavorable outcome with respect to these lawsuits and any future lawsuits could, individually or in the aggregate, cause the company to incur substantial liabilities that may have a material adverse effect upon the company business, financial condition or results of operations. protiviti dependence on personnel. protiviti is a services business, and is dependent upon its ability to attract and retain personnel. while protiviti has retained its key personnel to date, there can be no assurance that it will continue to be able to do so. protiviti competition. protiviti operates in a highly competitive business. as with the company staffing services business, the barriers to entry are quite low. there are many competitors, some of which have greater resources than protiviti and many of which have been in operation far longer than protiviti . in particular, protiviti faces competition from the big four accounting firms, which have been in operation for a considerable period of time and have established reputations and client bases. because the principal factors upon which competition is based are reputation, technology, tools, project methodologies, price of services and depth of skills of personnel, there can be no assurance that protiviti will be successful in attracting and retaining clients. potential liability. the business of protiviti consists of providing internal audit and business and technology risk consulting services. liability could be incurred or litigation could be instituted against the company or protiviti for claims related to these activities or to prior transactions or activities. there can be no assurance that such liability or litigation will not have a material adverse impact on protiviti or the company. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations. the company exposure to foreign currency exchange rates relates primarily to the company foreign subsidiaries. exchange rates impact the u.s. dollar value of the company reported earnings, investments in its foreign subsidiaries, and the intercompany transactions with its foreign subsidiaries. for the year ended december 31, 2007, approximately 24% of the company revenues were generated outside of the united states. these operations transact business in their functional currency. as a result, fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar have an impact on the company reported results. revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into u.s. dollars at the monthly average exchange rates prevailing during the period. consequently, as the value of the u.s. dollar changes relative to the currencies of the company non-u.s. markets, the company reported results vary. fluctuations in currency exchange rates impact the u.s. dollar amount of the company stockholders equity. the assets and liabilities of the company non-u.s. subsidiaries are translated into u.s. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at period end. the resulting translation adjustments are recorded in stockholders equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. 17risk factors the company business prospects are subject to various risks and uncertainties that impact its business. the most important of these risks and uncertainties are as follows: the global financial crisis may harm the company business and financial condition . many financial and economic analysts are predicting that the world economy may be entering into a prolonged economic downturn characterized by high unemployment, limited availability of credit and decreased consumer and business spending. given the nature of the company business, financial results could be significantly harmed should such a downturn occur. in the past, the company business has suffered during periods of high unemployment as demand for staffing services tends to significantly decrease during such periods. this impact on the company business could be further dramatized during the current downturn given the unprecedented impact it has had and may continue to have on the global credit markets. in addition, the impact of the credit 4 crisis could harm the company financial condition. at december 31, 2008, the company had approximately $355 million in cash and cash equivalents. the company has historically invested these amounts in u.s. treasuries and government agencies, bank deposits, corporate debt, money market funds, commercial paper and municipal bonds meeting certain criteria. certain of these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks. these risks associated with the company investment portfolio may negatively impact the company financial condition. any reduction in global economic activity may harm the c ompany business. the demand for the company services, in particular its staffing services, is highly dependent upon the state of the economy and upon the staffing needs of the company clients. any variation in the economic condition or unemployment levels of the u.s. or of any of the foreign countries in which the company does business, or in the economic condition of any region of any of the foregoing, or in any specific industry may severely reduce the demand for the company services and thereby significantly decrease the company revenues and profits. the company faces risks in operating internationally. the company depends on operations in international markets for a significant portion of its business. these international operations are subject to a number of risks, including general political and economic conditions in those foreign countries, the burden of complying with various foreign laws and technical standards and unpredictable changes in foreign regulations, u.s. legal requirements governing u.s. companies operating in foreign countries, legal and cultural differences in the conduct of business, potential adverse tax consequences and difficulty in staffing and managing international operations. in addition, the company business may be affected by foreign currency exchange fluctuations. in particular, the company is subject to risk in translating its results in foreign currencies into the u.s. dollar. if the value of the u.s. dollar declines relative to other currencies, the company reported income from these operations could decrease. the company may be unable to find sufficient candidates for its staffing business. the company staffing services business consists of the placement of individuals seeking employment. there can be no assurance that candidates for employment will continue to seek employment through the company. candidates generally seek temporary or regular positions through multiple sources, including the company and its competitors. any shortage of candidates could materially adversely affect the company. the company o perates in a highly competitive business and may be unable to retain clients or market share. the staffing services business is highly competitive and, because it is a service business, the barriers to entry are quite low. there are many competitors, some of which have greater resources than the company, and new competitors are entering the market all the time. in addition, long-term contracts form a negligible portion of the company revenue. therefore, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to retain clients or market share in the future. nor can there be any assurance that the company will, in light of competitive pressures, be able to remain profitable or, if profitable, maintain its current profit margins. the company business depends on a strong reputation and anything that harms its reputation will likely harm its results . as a provider of temporary and permanent staffing solutions as well as consultant services, the company reputation is dependent upon the performance of the employees it places with its clients and the services rendered by its consultants. if the company clients become dissatisfied with the performance of those employees or consultants or if any of those employees or consultants engage in conduct that is harmful to the company clients, the company ability to maintain or expand its client base may be harmed. the company may incur potential liability to employees and clients. the company temporary services business entails employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients workplaces. the company ability to control the workplace environment is limited. as the employer of record of its temporary employees, the company incurs a risk of liability to its temporary employees for various workplace events, including claims of physical injury, discrimination, harassment or failure to protect confidential personal information. while such claims have not historically had a material adverse effect upon the company, there can be no assurance that such claims in the future will not result in adverse publicity or have a material adverse effect 5 upon the company. the company also incurs a risk of liability to its clients resulting from allegations of errors, omissions or theft by its temporary employees, or allegations of misuse of client confidential information. the company maintains insurance with respect to many of such claims. while such claims have not historically had a material adverse effect upon the company, there can be no assurance that the company will continue to be able to obtain insurance at a cost that does not have a material adverse effect upon the company or that such claims (whether by reason of the company not having insurance or by reason of such claims being outside the scope of the company insurance) will not have a material adverse effect upon the company. the company is dependent on its management personnel and employees and a failure to attract and retain such personnel could harm its business. the company is engaged in the services business. as such, its success or failure is highly dependent upon the performance of its management personnel and employees, rather than upon technology or upon tangible assets (of which the company has few). there can be no assurance that the company will be able to attract and retain the personnel that are essential to its success. the company business is subject to extensive government regulation and a failure to comply with regulations could harm its business. the company business is subject to regulation or licensing in many states and in certain foreign countries. while the company has had no material difficulty complying with regulations in the past, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to continue to obtain all necessary licenses or approvals or that the cost of compliance will not prove to be material. any inability of the company to comply with government regulation or licensing requirements could materially adversely affect the company. in addition, the company temporary services business entails employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients workplaces. increased government regulation of the workplace or of the employer-employee relationship, or judicial or administrative proceedings related to such regulation, could materially adversely affect the company. the company computer and communications hardware and software systems are vulnerable to damage and interruption. the company ability to manage its operations successfully is critical to its success and largely depends upon the efficient and uninterrupted operation of its computer and communications hardware and software systems. the company primary computer systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events and errors in usage by the company employees. failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in the company financial reporting. failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in the company financial reporting. if the company management is unable to certify the effectiveness of its internal controls or if its independent registered public accounting firm cannot render an opinion on the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting, or if material weaknesses in the company internal controls are identified, the company could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence. in addition, if the company does not maintain adequate financial and management personnel, processes and controls, it may not be able to accurately report its financial performance on a timely basis, which could cause its stock price to fall. the demand for the company services related to sarbanes-oxley or other regulatory compliance may decline. the operations of both the staffing services business and protiviti include services related to sarbanes-oxley and other regulatory compliance. there can be no assurance that there will be ongoing demand for these services. long-term contracts do not comprise a significant portion of the company revenue. because long-term contracts are not a significant part of the company staffing services business, future results cannot be reliably predicted by considering past trends or extrapolating past results. the company and certain subsidiaries are defendants in several class and representative action lawsuits alleging various wage and hour claims that could cause the company to incur substantial liabilities . the company and certain subsidiaries are defendants in several class and representative action lawsuits brought by or 6 on behalf of the company current and former employees alleging violations of federal and state law with respect to certain wage and hour matters. the company and certain subsidiaries are currently defendants in four such lawsuits, all of which are pending in california. three of such lawsuits allege, among other things, the misclassification of certain employees as exempt employees under federal and state law and other related wage and hour violations and seek an unspecified amount for unpaid overtime compensation, statutory penalties, and other damages, as well as attorneys fees. the fourth lawsuit alleges, among other things, that temporary employees in california were improperly denied expense reimbursement and wages for time purportedly spent preparing for, traveling to, and attending interviews, and seeks compensation for such expenses and wages, penalties and injunctive relief, as well as attorneys fees. it is not possible to predict the outcome of these lawsuits. however, these lawsuits may consume substantial amounts of the company financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the lawsuits. in addition, the company and its subsidiaries may become subject to similar lawsuits in the same or other jurisdictions. an unfavorable outcome with respect to these lawsuits and any future lawsuits could, individually or in the aggregate, cause the company to incur substantial liabilities that may have a material adverse effect upon the company business, financial condition or results of operations. protiviti may be unable to attract and retain key personnel. protiviti is a services business, and is dependent upon its ability to attract and retain personnel. while protiviti has retained its key personnel to date, there can be no assurance that it will continue to be able to do so. protiviti operates in a highly competitive business and faces competitors who are significantly larger and have more established reputations. protiviti operates in a highly competitive business. as with the company staffing services business, the barriers to entry are quite low. there are many competitors, some of which have greater resources than protiviti and many of which have been in operation far longer than protiviti . in particular, protiviti faces competition from the big four accounting firms, which have been in operation for a considerable period of time and have established reputations and client bases. because the principal factors upon which competition is based are reputation, technology, tools, project methodologies, price of services and depth of skills of personnel, there can be no assurance that protiviti will be successful in attracting and retaining clients. protiviti operations could subject it to liability. the business of protiviti consists of providing business consulting and internal audit services. liability could be incurred or litigation could be instituted against the company or protiviti for claims related to these activities or to prior transactions or activities. there can be no assurance that such liability or litigation will not have a material adverse impact on protiviti or the company. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations. the company exposure to foreign currency exchange rates relates primarily to the company foreign subsidiaries. exchange rates impact the u.s. dollar value of the company reported earnings, investments in its foreign subsidiaries, and the intercompany transactions with its foreign subsidiaries. for the year ended december 31, 2008, approximately 29% of the company revenues were generated outside of the united states. these operations transact business in their functional currency. as a result, fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar have an impact on the company reported results. revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into u.s. dollars at the monthly average exchange rates prevailing during the period. consequently, as the value of the u.s. dollar changes relative to the currencies of the company non-u.s. markets, the company reported results vary. fluctuations in currency exchange rates impact the u.s. dollar amount of the company stockholders equity. the assets and liabilities of the company non-u.s. subsidiaries are translated into u.s. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at period end. the resulting translation adjustments are recorded in stockholders equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. 18risk factors the company business prospects are subject to various risks and uncertainties that impact its business. the most important of these risks and uncertainties are as follows: the global economic crisis may continue to harm the company business and financial condition . the world economy may continue in a prolonged economic downturn characterized by high unemployment, limited availability of credit and decreased consumer and business spending. given the nature of the company business, financial results could be significantly harmed should such a prolonged downturn occur. in the past, the company business has suffered during periods of high unemployment as demand for staffing services tends to significantly decrease during such periods. this impact on the company business could be further dramatized given the unprecedented impact it has had and may continue to have on the global labor markets. in addition, the impact of the economic crisis could harm the company financial condition. at december 31, 2009, the 4 company had approximately $366 million in cash and cash equivalents. the company has historically invested these amounts in u.s. treasuries and government agencies, bank deposits, corporate debt, money market funds, commercial paper and municipal bonds meeting certain criteria. certain of these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks. these risks associated with the company investment portfolio may negatively impact the company financial condition. any reduction in global economic activity may harm the c ompany business. the demand for the company services, in particular its staffing services, is highly dependent upon the state of the economy and upon the staffing needs of the company clients. any variation in the economic condition or unemployment levels of the u.s. or of any of the foreign countries in which the company does business, or in the economic condition of any region of any of the foregoing, or in any specific industry may severely reduce the demand for the company services and thereby significantly decrease the company revenues and profits. the company business depends on a strong reputation and anything that harms its reputation will likely harm its results . as a provider of temporary and permanent staffing solutions as well as consultant services, the company reputation is dependent upon the performance of the employees it places with its clients and the services rendered by its consultants. if the company clients become dissatisfied with the performance of those employees or consultants or if any of those employees or consultants engage in conduct that is harmful to the company clients, the company ability to maintain or expand its client base may be harmed. the company and certain subsidiaries are defendants in several class and representative action lawsuits alleging various wage and hour claims that could cause the company to incur substantial liabilities . the company and certain subsidiaries are defendants in five class and representative action lawsuits brought by or on behalf of the company current and former employees alleging violations of federal and state law with respect to certain wage and hour matters. four of such lawsuits allege, among other things, the misclassification of certain employees as exempt employees under applicable law and other related wage and hour violations and seek an unspecified amount for unpaid overtime compensation, statutory penalties, and other damages, as well as attorneys fees. the fifth lawsuit alleges, among other things, that temporary employees in california were improperly denied expense reimbursement and wages for time purportedly spent preparing for, traveling to, and attending interviews, and seeks compensation for such expenses and wages, penalties and injunctive relief, as well as attorneys fees. it is not possible to predict the outcome of these lawsuits. however, these lawsuits may consume substantial amounts of the company financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the lawsuits. in addition, the company and its subsidiaries may become subject to similar lawsuits in the same or other jurisdictions. an unfavorable outcome with respect to these lawsuits and any future lawsuits could, individually or in the aggregate, cause the company to incur substantial liabilities that may have a material adverse effect upon the company business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, an unfavorable outcome in one or more of these cases could cause the company to change its incentive compensation plans for its employees, which could have a material adverse effect upon the company business. the company faces risks in operating internationally. the company depends on operations in international markets for a significant portion of its business. these international operations are subject to a number of risks, including general political and economic conditions in those foreign countries, the burden of complying with various foreign laws and technical standards and unpredictable changes in foreign regulations, u.s. legal requirements governing u.s. companies operating in foreign countries, legal and cultural differences in the conduct of business, potential adverse tax consequences and difficulty in staffing and managing international operations. in addition, the company business may be affected by foreign currency exchange fluctuations. in particular, the company is subject to risk in translating its results in foreign currencies into the u.s. dollar. if the value of the u.s. dollar declines relative to other currencies, the company reported income from these operations could decrease. the company may be unable to find sufficient candidates for its staffing business. the company staffing services business consists of the placement of individuals seeking employment. there can be no assurance that 5 candidates for employment will continue to seek employment through the company. candidates generally seek temporary or regular positions through multiple sources, including the company and its competitors. any shortage of candidates could materially adversely affect the company. the company o perates in a highly competitive business and may be unable to retain clients or market share. the staffing services business is highly competitive and, because it is a service business, the barriers to entry are quite low. there are many competitors, some of which have greater resources than the company, and new competitors are entering the market all the time. in addition, long-term contracts form a negligible portion of the company revenue. therefore, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to retain clients or market share in the future. nor can there be any assurance that the company will, in light of competitive pressures, be able to remain profitable or, if profitable, maintain its current profit margins. the company may incur potential liability to employees and clients. the company temporary services business entails employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients workplaces. the company ability to control the workplace environment is limited. as the employer of record of its temporary employees, the company incurs a risk of liability to its temporary employees for various workplace events, including claims of physical injury, discrimination, harassment or failure to protect confidential personal information. while such claims have not historically had a material adverse effect upon the company, there can be no assurance that such claims in the future will not result in adverse publicity or have a material adverse effect upon the company. the company also incurs a risk of liability to its clients resulting from allegations of errors, omissions or theft by its temporary employees, or allegations of misuse of client confidential information. the company maintains insurance with respect to many of such claims. while such claims have not historically had a material adverse effect upon the company, there can be no assurance that the company will continue to be able to obtain insurance at a cost that does not have a material adverse effect upon the company or that such claims (whether by reason of the company not having insurance or by reason of such claims being outside the scope of the company insurance) will not have a material adverse effect upon the company. the company is dependent on its management personnel and employees and a failure to attract and retain such personnel could harm its business. the company is engaged in the services business. as such, its success or failure is highly dependent upon the performance of its management personnel and employees, rather than upon technology or upon tangible assets (of which the company has few). there can be no assurance that the company will be able to attract and retain the personnel that are essential to its success. the company business is subject to extensive government regulation and a failure to comply with regulations could harm its business. the company business is subject to regulation or licensing in many states and in certain foreign countries. while the company has had no material difficulty complying with regulations in the past, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to continue to obtain all necessary licenses or approvals or that the cost of compliance will not prove to be material. any inability of the company to comply with government regulation or licensing requirements could materially adversely affect the company. in addition, the company temporary services business entails employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients workplaces. increased government regulation of the workplace or of the employer-employee relationship, or judicial or administrative proceedings related to such regulation, could materially adversely affect the company. health care reform could increase the costs of the company temporary staffing operations . health care reform may be addressed by congress during 2010. depending upon the provisions of any final legislation that is adopted, the cost to the company of providing temporary employees may be increased by the terms of the reform. such an increase in costs could have a material adverse effect on the company profit margins or, if the company increases its charges to clients, upon the demand for the company services, which could materially reduce revenues. the company computer and communications hardware and software systems are vulnerable to damage and interruption. the company ability to manage its operations successfully is critical to its success and 6 largely depends upon the efficient and uninterrupted operation of its computer and communications hardware and software systems. the company primary computer systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events and errors in usage by the company employees. failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in the company financial reporting. failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in the company financial reporting. if the company management is unable to certify the effectiveness of its internal controls or if its independent registered public accounting firm cannot render an opinion on the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting, or if material weaknesses in the company internal controls are identified, the company could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence. in addition, if the company does not maintain adequate financial and management personnel, processes and controls, it may not be able to accurately report its financial performance on a timely basis, which could cause its stock price to fall. the demand for the company services related to sarbanes-oxley or other regulatory compliance may decline. the operations of both the staffing services business and protiviti include services related to sarbanes-oxley and other regulatory compliance. there can be no assurance that there will be ongoing demand for these services. long-term contracts do not comprise a significant portion of the company revenue. because long-term contracts are not a significant part of the company staffing services business, future results cannot be reliably predicted by considering past trends or extrapolating past results. protiviti may be unable to attract and retain key personnel. protiviti is a services business, and is dependent upon its ability to attract and retain personnel. while protiviti has retained its key personnel to date, there can be no assurance that it will continue to be able to do so. protiviti operates in a highly competitive business and faces competitors who are significantly larger and have more established reputations. protiviti operates in a highly competitive business. as with the company staffing services business, the barriers to entry are quite low. there are many competitors, some of which have greater resources than protiviti and many of which have been in operation far longer than protiviti . in particular, protiviti faces competition from the big four accounting firms, which have been in operation for a considerable period of time and have established reputations and client bases. because the principal factors upon which competition is based are reputation, technology, tools, project methodologies, price of services and depth of skills of personnel, there can be no assurance that protiviti will be successful in attracting and retaining clients. protiviti operations could subject it to liability. the business of protiviti consists of providing business consulting and internal audit services. liability could be incurred or litigation could be instituted against the company or protiviti for claims related to these activities or to prior transactions or activities. there can be no assurance that such liability or litigation will not have a material adverse impact on protiviti or the company. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations. the company exposure to foreign currency exchange rates relates primarily to the company foreign subsidiaries. exchange rates impact the u.s. dollar value of the company reported earnings, investments in its foreign subsidiaries, and the intercompany transactions with its foreign subsidiaries. for the year ended december 31, 2009, approximately 29% of the company revenues were generated outside of the united states. these operations transact business in their functional currency. as a result, fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar have an impact on the company reported results. revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into u.s. dollars at the monthly average exchange rates prevailing during the period. consequently, as the value of the u.s. dollar changes relative to the currencies of the company non-u.s. markets, the company reported results vary. fluctuations in currency exchange rates impact the u.s. dollar amount of the company stockholders equity. the assets and liabilities of the company non-u.s. subsidiaries are translated into u.s. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at period end. the resulting translation adjustments are recorded in stockholders equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. 24quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations. the company exposure to foreign currency exchange rates relates primarily to the company foreign subsidiaries. exchange rates impact the u.s. dollar value of the company reported earnings, investments in its foreign subsidiaries, and the intercompany transactions with its foreign subsidiaries. for the year ended december 31, 2010, approximately 29% of the company revenues were generated outside of the united states. these operations transact business in their functional currency. as a result, fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar have an impact on the company reported results. revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into u.s. dollars at the monthly average exchange rates prevailing during the period. consequently, as the value of the u.s. dollar changes relative to the currencies of the company non-u.s. markets, the company reported results vary. fluctuations in currency exchange rates impact the u.s. dollar amount of the company stockholders equity. the assets and liabilities of the company non-u.s. subsidiaries are translated into u.s. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at period end. the resulting translation adjustments are recorded in stockholders equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. 22quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations. the company exposure to foreign currency exchange rates relates primarily to the company foreign subsidiaries. exchange rates impact the u.s. dollar value of the company reported earnings, investments in its foreign subsidiaries, and the intercompany transactions with its foreign subsidiaries. for the year ended december 31, 2011, approximately 30% of the company revenues were generated outside of the united states. these operations transact business in their functional currency. as a result, fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar have an impact on the company reported results. revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into u.s. dollars at the monthly average exchange rates prevailing during the period. consequently, as the value of the u.s. dollar changes relative to the currencies of the company non-u.s. markets, the company reported results vary. fluctuations in currency exchange rates impact the u.s. dollar amount of the company stockholders equity. the assets and liabilities of the company non-u.s. subsidiaries are translated into u.s. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at period end. the resulting translation adjustments are recorded in stockholders equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. 24quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations. the company exposure to foreign currency exchange rates relates primarily to the company foreign subsidiaries. exchange rates impact the u.s. dollar value of the company reported earnings, investments in its foreign subsidiaries, and the intercompany transactions with its foreign subsidiaries. 22 for the year ended december 31, 2012, approximately 26% of the company revenues were generated outside of the united states. these operations transact business in their functional currency. as a result, fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar have an impact on the company reported results. revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into u.s. dollars at the monthly average exchange rates prevailing during the period. consequently, as the value of the u.s. dollar changes relative to the currencies of the company non-u.s. markets, the company reported results vary. fluctuations in currency exchange rates impact the u.s. dollar amount of the company stockholders equity. the assets and liabilities of the company non-u.s. subsidiaries are translated into u.s. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at period end. the resulting translation adjustments are recorded in stockholders equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. 23risk factors the company business prospects are subject to various risks and uncertainties that impact its business. the most important of these risks and uncertainties are as follows: the global economic crisis may continue to harm the company business and financial condition . the world economy may continue in a prolonged economic downturn characterized by high unemployment, limited availability of credit and decreased consumer and business spending. given the nature of the company business, financial results could be significantly harmed should such a prolonged downturn occur. in the past, the company business has suffered during periods of high unemployment as demand for staffing services tends to significantly decrease during such periods. this impact on the company business could be further dramatized given the unprecedented impact it has had and may continue to have on the global labor markets. 4 any reduction in global economic activity may harm the c ompany business. the demand for the company services, in particular its staffing services, is highly dependent upon the state of the economy and upon the staffing needs of the company clients. any variation in the economic condition or unemployment levels of the u.s. or of any of the foreign countries in which the company does business, or in the economic condition of any region of any of the foregoing, or in any specific industry may severely reduce the demand for the company services and thereby significantly decrease the company revenues and profits. the company business depends on a strong reputation and anything that harms its reputation will likely harm its results . as a provider of temporary and permanent staffing solutions as well as consultant services, the company reputation is dependent upon the performance of the employees it places with its clients and the services rendered by its consultants. if the company clients become dissatisfied with the performance of those employees or consultants or if any of those employees or consultants engage in conduct that is harmful to the company clients, the company ability to maintain or expand its client base may be harmed. the company and certain subsidiaries are defendants in several lawsuits alleging various wage and hour related claims that could cause the company to incur substantial liabilities . the company and certain subsidiaries are defendants in several actual or asserted class and representative action lawsuits brought by or on behalf of the company current and former employees alleging violations of federal and state law with respect to certain wage and hour related matters. the various claims made in one or more of such lawsuits include, among other things, the misclassification of certain employees as exempt employees under applicable law, failure to comply with wage statement requirements and other related wage and hour violations. such suits seek, as applicable, unspecified amounts for unpaid overtime compensation, penalties, and other damages, as well as attorneys fees. it is not possible to predict the outcome of these lawsuits. however, these lawsuits may consume substantial amounts of the company financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the lawsuits. in addition, the company and its subsidiaries may become subject to similar lawsuits in the same or other jurisdictions. an unfavorable outcome with respect to these lawsuits and any future lawsuits could, individually or in the aggregate, cause the company to incur substantial liabilities that may have a material adverse effect upon the company business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, an unfavorable outcome in one or more of these cases could cause the company to change its compensation plans for its employees, which could have a material adverse effect upon the company business. the company faces risks in operating internationally. the company depends on operations in international markets, including europe, for a significant portion of its business. the european market has been experiencing on-going economic uncertainty which has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the company operations in europe. to the extent that these adverse economic conditions in europe continue or worsen, demand for the company services may decline, which could significantly harm its business and results of operations. in addition, these international operations are subject to a number of risks, including general political and economic conditions in those foreign countries, the burden of complying with various foreign laws and technical standards and unpredictable changes in foreign regulations, u.s. legal requirements governing u.s. companies operating in foreign countries, legal and cultural differences in the conduct of business, potential adverse tax consequences and difficulty in staffing and managing international operations. in addition, the company business may be affected by foreign currency exchange fluctuations. in particular, the company is subject to risk in translating its results in foreign currencies into the u.s. dollar. if the value of the u.s. dollar strengthens relative to other currencies, the company reported income from these operations could decrease. the company may be unable to find sufficient candidates for its staffing business. the company staffing services business consists of the placement of individuals seeking employment. there can be no assurance that candidates for employment will continue to seek employment through the company. candidates generally seek temporary or regular positions through multiple sources, including the company and its competitors. any shortage of candidates could materially adversely affect the company. 5 the company o perates in a highly competitive business and may be unable to retain clients or market share. the staffing services business is highly competitive and, because it is a service business, the barriers to entry are quite low. there are many competitors, some of which have greater resources than the company, and new competitors are entering the market all the time. in addition, long-term contracts form a negligible portion of the company revenue. therefore, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to retain clients or market share in the future. nor can there be any assurance that the company will, in light of competitive pressures, be able to remain profitable or, if profitable, maintain its current profit margins. the company may incur potential liability to employees and clients. the company temporary services business entails employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients workplaces. the company ability to control the workplace environment is limited. as the employer of record of its temporary employees, the company incurs a risk of liability to its temporary employees for various workplace events, including claims of physical injury, discrimination, harassment or failure to protect confidential personal information. while such claims have not historically had a material adverse effect upon the company, there can be no assurance that such claims in the future will not result in adverse publicity or have a material adverse effect upon the company. the company also incurs a risk of liability to its clients resulting from allegations of errors, omissions or theft by its temporary employees, or allegations of misuse of client confidential information. the company maintains insurance with respect to many of such claims. while such claims have not historically had a material adverse effect upon the company, there can be no assurance that the company will continue to be able to obtain insurance at a cost that does not have a material adverse effect upon the company or that such claims (whether by reason of the company not having insurance or by reason of such claims being outside the scope of the company insurance) will not have a material adverse effect upon the company. the company is dependent on its management personnel and employees and a failure to attract and retain such personnel could harm its business. the company is engaged in the services business. as such, its success or failure is highly dependent upon the performance of its management personnel and employees, rather than upon technology or upon tangible assets (of which the company has few). there can be no assurance that the company will be able to attract and retain the personnel that are essential to its success. the company business is subject to extensive government regulation and a failure to comply with regulations could harm its business. the company business is subject to regulation or licensing in many states and in certain foreign countries. while the company has had no material difficulty complying with regulations in the past, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to continue to obtain all necessary licenses or approvals or that the cost of compliance will not prove to be material. any inability of the company to comply with government regulation or licensing requirements could materially adversely affect the company. in addition, the company temporary services business entails employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients workplaces. increased government regulation of the workplace or of the employer-employee relationship, or judicial or administrative proceedings related to such regulation, could materially adversely affect the company. in addition, to the extent that government regulation imposes increased costs upon the company, such as unemployment insurance taxes, there can be no assurance that such costs will not adversely impact the company profit margins. health care reform could increase the costs of the company temporary staffing operations . in march 2010, the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (collectively, the health care reform laws ) were signed into law in the united states. the health care reform laws include a large number of health-related provisions, including requiring most individuals to have health insurance and establishing new regulations on health plans. although the health care reform laws do not mandate that employers offer health insurance, beginning in 2015 penalties will be assessed on large employers who do not offer health insurance that meets certain affordability or benefit requirements. providing such additional health insurance benefits to the company employees, or the payment of penalties if such coverage is not provided, will increase the company expense. if the company is unable to raise the rates it charges its clients to cover this expense, such increases in expense could harm the company financial results. 6 the company computer and communications hardware and software systems are vulnerable to damage and interruption. the company ability to manage its operations successfully is critical to its success and largely depends upon the efficient and uninterrupted operation of its computer and communications hardware and software systems. the company primary computer systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events and errors in usage by the company employees. failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in the company financial reporting. failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in the company financial reporting. if the company management is unable to certify the effectiveness of its internal controls or if its independent registered public accounting firm cannot render an opinion on the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting, or if material weaknesses in the company internal controls are identified, the company could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence. in addition, if the company does not maintain adequate financial and management personnel, processes and controls, it may not be able to accurately report its financial performance on a timely basis, which could cause its stock price to fall. the demand for the company services related to sarbanes-oxley or other regulatory compliance may decline. the operations of both the staffing services business and protiviti include services related to sarbanes-oxley and other regulatory compliance. there can be no assurance that there will be ongoing demand for these services. for example, the jumpstart our business startup ( jobs ) act signed into law in april of 2012 allows most companies going public in the u.s. to defer implementation of some of the provisions of sarbanes-oxley for up to five years after their initial public offering. this or other similar delays or modifications of the sarbanes oxley requirements could decrease demand for protiviti services. long-term contracts do not comprise a significant portion of the company revenue. because long-term contracts are not a significant part of the company staffing services business, future results cannot be reliably predicted by considering past trends or extrapolating past results. protiviti may be unable to attract and retain key personnel. protiviti is a services business, and is dependent upon its ability to attract and retain personnel. while protiviti has retained its key personnel to date, there can be no assurance that it will continue to be able to do so. protiviti operates in a highly competitive business and faces competitors who are significantly larger and have more established reputations. protiviti operates in a highly competitive business. as with the company staffing services business, the barriers to entry are quite low. there are many competitors, some of which have greater resources than protiviti and many of which have been in operation far longer than protiviti . in particular, protiviti faces competition from the big four accounting firms, which have been in operation for a considerable period of time and have established reputations and client bases. because the principal factors upon which competition is based are reputation, technology, tools, project methodologies, price of services and depth of skills of personnel, there can be no assurance that protiviti will be successful in attracting and retaining clients. protiviti operations could subject it to liability. the business of protiviti consists of providing business consulting and internal audit services. liability could be incurred or litigation could be instituted against the company or protiviti for claims related to these activities or to prior transactions or activities. there can be no assurance that such liability or litigation will not have a material adverse impact on protiviti or the company.risk factors the company's business prospects are subject to various risks and uncertainties that impact its business. the most important of these risks and uncertainties are as follows: the global economic downturn may continue to harm the company's business and financial condition . many of the company's markets, particularly in europe, are currently experiencing a prolonged economic downturn characterized by high unemployment, limited availability of credit and decreased consumer and business spending. given the nature of the company's business, financial results could be significantly harmed should this downturn continue for an extended period of time or intensify. in the past, the company's business has suffered during periods of high unemployment as demand for staffing services tends to significantly decrease during such periods. the impact of this downturn on the company's business could be further dramatized given the severe impact it has had and may continue to have on the global labor markets. any reduction in global economic activity may harm the company's business. the demand for the company's services, in particular its staffing services, is highly dependent upon the state of the economy and upon the staffing needs of the company's clients. any variation in the economic condition or unemployment levels of the u.s. or of any of the foreign countries in which the company does business, or in the economic condition of any region of any of the foregoing, or in any specific industry may severely reduce the demand for the company's services and thereby significantly decrease the company's revenues and profits. the company's business depends on a strong reputation and anything that harms its reputation will likely harm its results. as a provider of temporary and permanent staffing solutions as well as consultant services, the company's reputation is dependent upon the performance of the employees it places with its clients and the services rendered by its consultants. if the company's clients become dissatisfied with the performance of those employees or consultants or if any of those employees or consultants engage in conduct that is harmful to the company's clients, the company's ability to maintain or expand its client base may be harmed. the company and certain subsidiaries are defendants in several lawsuits that could cause the company to incur substantial liabilities . the company and certain subsidiaries are defendants in several actual or asserted class and 4 representative action lawsuits brought by or on behalf of the company's current and former employees alleging violations of federal and state law with respect to certain wage and hour related matters, as well as claims challenging the company's compliance with the fair credit reporting act. the various claims made in one or more of such lawsuits include, among other things, the misclassification of certain employees as exempt employees under applicable law, failure to comply with wage statement requirements and other related wage and hour violations. such suits seek, as applicable, unspecified amounts for unpaid overtime compensation, penalties, and other damages, as well as attorneys' fees. it is not possible to predict the outcome of these lawsuits. however, these lawsuits may consume substantial amounts of the company's financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the lawsuits. in addition, the company and its subsidiaries may become subject to similar lawsuits in the same or other jurisdictions. an unfavorable outcome with respect to these lawsuits and any future lawsuits could, individually or in the aggregate, cause the company to incur substantial liabilities that may have a material adverse effect upon the company's business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, an unfavorable outcome in one or more of these cases could cause the company to change its compensation plans for its employees, which could have a material adverse effect upon the company's business. the company faces risks in operating internationally. the company depends on operations in international markets, including europe, for a significant portion of its business. the european market has been experiencing on-going economic uncertainty which has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the company's operations in europe. to the extent that these adverse economic conditions in europe continue or worsen, demand for the company's services may decline, which could significantly harm its business and results of operations. in addition, these international operations are subject to a number of risks, including general political and economic conditions in those foreign countries, the burden of complying with various foreign laws and technical standards and unpredictable changes in foreign regulations, u.s. legal requirements governing u.s. companies operating in foreign countries, legal and cultural differences in the conduct of business, potential adverse tax consequences and difficulty in staffing and managing international operations. in addition, the company's business may be affected by foreign currency exchange fluctuations. in particular, the company is subject to risk in translating its results in foreign currencies into the u.s. dollar. if the value of the u.s. dollar strengthens relative to other currencies, the company's reported income from these operations could decrease. the value of the u.s. dollar has recently strengthened considerably against a number of major foreign currencies, and a continuation or extension of this strength relative to these other currencies could adversely impact the company's reported income from its international markets and cause its revenue in such markets, when translated into u.s. dollars, to decline. government regulations may result in prohibition or restriction of certain types of employment services or the imposition of additional licensing or tax requirements that may reduce the company's future earnings. in many jurisdictions in which the company operates, the employment services industry is heavily regulated. for example, governmental regulations in some countries restrict the length of contracts and the industries in which the company's employees may be used. in other countries, special taxes, fees or costs are imposed in connection with the use of its employees. additionally, trade unions in some countries have used the political process to target the industry, in an effort to increase the regulatory burden and expense associated with offering or utilizing temporary staffing solutions. the countries in which we operate may, among other things: create additional regulations that prohibit or restrict the types of employment services that the company currently provides; require new or additional benefits be paid to the company's employees; require the company to obtain additional licensing to provide employment services; or increase taxes, such as sales or value-added taxes, payable by the providers of temporary workers. any future regulations may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and financial results because they may make it more difficult or expensive for the company to continue to provide employment services. the company may be unable to find sufficient candidates for its staffing business. the company's staffing services business consists of the placement of individuals seeking employment. there can be no assurance that candidates for employment will continue to seek employment through the company. candidates generally seek temporary or regular positions through multiple sources, including the company and its competitors. any shortage of candidates could materially adversely affect the company. the company operates in a highly competitive business and may be unable to retain clients or market share. the staffing services business is highly competitive and, because it is a service business, the barriers to entry are quite low. there are many competitors, some of which have greater resources than the company, and new competitors are entering the market all the time. in addition, long-term contracts form a negligible portion of the company's revenue. therefore, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to retain clients or market share in the future. nor can there be any assurance that the 5 company will, in light of competitive pressures, be able to remain profitable or, if profitable, maintain its current profit margins. the company may incur potential liability to employees and clients. the company's temporary services business entails employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients' workplaces. the company's ability to control the workplace environment is limited. as the employer of record of its temporary employees, the company incurs a risk of liability to its temporary employees for various workplace events, including claims of physical injury, discrimination, harassment or failure to protect confidential personal information. while such claims have not historically had a material adverse effect upon the company, there can be no assurance that such claims in the future will not result in adverse publicity or have a material adverse effect upon the company. the company also incurs a risk of liability to its clients resulting from allegations of errors, omissions or theft by its temporary employees, or allegations of misuse of client confidential information. the company maintains insurance with respect to many of such claims. while such claims have not historically had a material adverse effect upon the company, there can be no assurance that the company will continue to be able to obtain insurance at a cost that does not have a material adverse effect upon the company or that such claims (whether by reason of the company not having insurance or by reason of such claims being outside the scope of the company's insurance) will not have a material adverse effect upon the company. the company is dependent on its management personnel and employees and a failure to attract and retain such personnel could harm its business. the company is engaged in the services business. as such, its success or failure is highly dependent upon the performance of its management personnel and employees, rather than upon technology or upon tangible assets (of which the company has few). there can be no assurance that the company will be able to attract and retain the personnel that are essential to its success. the company's business is subject to extensive government regulation and a failure to comply with regulations could harm its business. the company's business is subject to regulation or licensing in many states and in certain foreign countries. while the company has had no material difficulty complying with regulations in the past, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to continue to obtain all necessary licenses or approvals or that the cost of compliance will not prove to be material. any inability of the company to comply with government regulation or licensing requirements could materially adversely affect the company. in addition, the company's temporary services business entails employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients' workplaces. increased government regulation of the workplace or of the employer-employee relationship, or judicial or administrative proceedings related to such regulation, could materially adversely affect the company. in addition, to the extent that government regulation imposes increased costs upon the company, such as unemployment insurance taxes, there can be no assurance that such costs will not adversely impact the company's profit margins. further, lawsuits or other proceedings related to the company's compliance with government regulations or licensing requirements could materially adversely affect the company. for example, the company is currently named as a defendant in litigation challenging its compliance with the fair credit reporting act. it is not possible to predict the outcome of such litigation; however, such litigation or any future lawsuits or proceedings related to the company's compliance with government regulation or licensing requirements could consume substantial amounts of the company's financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, regardless of the ultimate outcome of any such lawsuits or other proceedings. an unfavorable outcome with respect to such litigation or any future lawsuits or proceedings could, individually or in the aggregate, cause the company to incur substantial liabilities that may have a material adverse effect upon the company's business, financial condition or results of operations. health care reform could increase the costs of the company's temporary staffing operations . in march 2010, the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (the ppaca ) was signed into law in the united states. the ppaca imposed new mandates on individuals and employers, requiring most individuals to have health insurance and, beginning in 2015, assessing penalties on large employers that do not offer health insurance that meets certain coverage, value, or affordability standards. beginning 2015, the company has redesigned its employee benefits to offer health insurance coverage to its temporary candidates in a way that it believes will meet the requirements of the ppaca's employer mandate. providing such additional health insurance benefits and an increase in the number of employees who elect to participate in the company's health plans may significantly increase the company's health care-related costs. while the company will attempt to recover these costs from its customers, there can be no assurance that it will be successfully able to do so and, if it cannot recover such costs, its financial results will suffer. in addition, because the regulations governing the ppaca's employer mandate are new and subject to interpretation, it is possible that despite the company's efforts, the company may incur liability in the form of penalties, fines, or damages if: the health plans offered to temporary candidates are subsequently found not to meet minimum essential coverage, affordability or minimum value standards; the company's method for determining eligibility for coverage is found inadequate; or 6 the company's clients seek indemnification for health care claims by candidates working on client assignments. the cost of any such penalties, fines, or damages could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial and operating results. the company's computer and communications hardware and software systems are vulnerable to damage and interruption. the company's ability to manage its operations successfully is critical to its success and largely depends upon the efficient and uninterrupted operation of its computer and communications hardware and software systems. the company's primary computer systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events and errors in usage by the company's employees. in particular, the company's employees may have access or exposure to personally identifiable or otherwise confidential information and customer data and systems, the misuse of which could result in legal liability. cyber-attacks, including attacks motivated by grievances against the business services industry in general or against the company in particular, may disable or damage its systems. it is possible that the company's security controls over personal and other data and other practices it follows may not prevent the improper access to or disclosure of personally identifiable or otherwise confidential information. such disclosure or damage to the company's systems could harm its reputation and subject it to liability under its contracts and laws that protect personal data and confidential information, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in the company's financial reporting. failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in the company's financial reporting. if the company's management is unable to certify the effectiveness of its internal controls or if its independent registered public accounting firm cannot render an opinion on the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting, or if material weaknesses in the company's internal controls are identified, the company could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence. in addition, if the company does not maintain adequate financial and management personnel, processes and controls, it may not be able to accurately report its financial performance on a timely basis, which could cause its stock price to fall. the company's results of operations and ability to grow could be materially negatively affected if it cannot successfully keep pace with technological changes in the development and implementation of its services. the company's success depends on its ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes in the development and implementation of its services. the company's business is reliant on a variety of technologies, including those which support hiring and tracking, order management, billing, and client data analytics. if the company does not sufficiently invest in new technology and industry developments, appropriately implement new technologies, or evolve its business at sufficient speed and scale in response to such developments, or if it does not make the right strategic investments to respond to these developments, the company's services, results of operations, and ability to develop and maintain its business could be negatively affected. the demand for the company's services related to sarbanes-oxley or other regulatory compliance may decline. the operations of both the staffing services business and protiviti include services related to sarbanes-oxley and other regulatory compliance. there can be no assurance that there will be ongoing demand for these services. for example, the jumpstart our business startup ( jobs ) act signed into law in april of 2012 allows most companies going public in the u.s. to defer implementation of some of the provisions of sarbanes-oxley for up to five years after their initial public offering. similarly there are a number of proposals currently being considered by the u.s. congress to further delay or, in some cases, remove the requirements of sarbanes-oxley for a number of public companies. these or other similar delays or modifications of the sarbanes oxley requirements could decrease demand for protiviti's services. long-term contracts do not comprise a significant portion of the company's revenue. because long-term contracts are not a significant part of the company's staffing services business, future results cannot be reliably predicted by considering past trends or extrapolating past results. protiviti may be unable to attract and retain key personnel. protiviti is a services business, and is dependent upon its ability to attract and retain personnel. while protiviti has retained its key personnel to date, there can be no assurance that it will continue to be able to do so. protiviti operates in a highly competitive business and faces competitors who are significantly larger and have more established reputations. protiviti operates in a highly competitive business. as with the company's staffing services business, the barriers to entry are quite low. there are many competitors, some of which have greater resources than protiviti and many of which have been in operation far longer than protiviti . in particular, protiviti faces competition from the big four accounting firms, which have been in operation for a considerable period of time and have established reputations and client bases. because the principal factors upon which competition is based are reputation, technology, tools, project methodologies, 7 price of services and depth of skills of personnel, there can be no assurance that protiviti will be successful in attracting and retaining clients. protiviti's operations could subject it to liability. the business of protiviti consists of providing business consulting and internal audit services. liability could be incurred or litigation could be instituted against the company or protiviti for claims related to these activities or to prior transactions or activities. there can be no assurance that such liability or litigation will not have a material adverse impact on protiviti or the company. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations. the company's exposure to foreign currency exchange rates relates primarily to the company's foreign subsidiaries. exchange rates impact the u.s. dollar value of the company's reported earnings, investments in its foreign subsidiaries, and the intercompany transactions with its foreign subsidiaries. for the year ended december 31, 2014 , approximately 23% of the company's revenues were generated outside of the united states. these operations transact business in their functional currency. as a result, fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar, particularly the canadian dollar, british pound, euro, and australian dollar have an impact on the company's reported results. revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into u.s. dollars at the monthly average exchange rates prevailing during the period. consequently, as the value of the u.s. dollar changes relative to the currencies of the company's non-u.s. markets, the company's reported results vary. fluctuations in currency exchange rates impact the u.s. dollar amount of the company's stockholders' equity. the assets and liabilities of the company's non-u.s. subsidiaries are translated into u.s. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at period end. the resulting translation adjustments are recorded in stockholders' equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. 23risk factors the company's business prospects are subject to various risks and uncertainties that impact its business. the most important of these risks and uncertainties are as follows: the global economic downturn may continue to harm the company's business and financial condition . many of the company's markets, particularly in europe, are currently experiencing a prolonged economic downturn characterized by high unemployment, limited availability of credit and decreased consumer and business spending. given the nature of the company's business, financial results could be significantly harmed should this downturn continue for an extended period of time or intensify. in the past, the company's business has suffered during periods of high unemployment as demand for staffing services tends to significantly decrease during such periods. the impact of this downturn on the company's business could be further dramatized given the severe impact it has had and may continue to have on the global labor markets. any reduction in global economic activity may harm the company's business. the demand for the company's services, in particular its staffing services, is highly dependent upon the state of the economy and upon the staffing needs of the company's clients. any variation in the economic condition or unemployment levels of the u.s. or of any of the foreign countries in which the company does business, or in the economic condition of any region of any of the foregoing, or in any specific industry may severely reduce the demand for the company's services and thereby significantly decrease the company's revenues and profits. the company's business depends on a strong reputation and anything that harms its reputation will likely harm its results. as a provider of temporary and permanent staffing solutions as well as consultant services, the company's reputation is dependent upon the performance of the employees it places with its clients and the services rendered by its consultants. the company depends on its reputation and name recognition to secure engagements and to hire qualified employees and consultants. if the company's clients become dissatisfied with the performance of those employees or consultants or if any of those employees or consultants engage in or are believed to have engaged in conduct that is harmful to the company's clients, the company's ability to maintain or expand its client base may be harmed. the company and certain subsidiaries are defendants in several lawsuits that could cause the company to incur substantial liabilities . the company and certain subsidiaries are defendants in several actual or asserted class and representative action lawsuits brought by or on behalf of the company's current and former employees alleging violations of federal and state law with respect to certain wage and hour related matters, as well as claims challenging the company's compliance with the fair credit reporting act. the various claims made in one or more of such lawsuits include, among other things, the misclassification of certain employees as exempt employees under applicable law, failure to comply with wage statement requirements, failure to compensate certain employees for time spent performing activities related to the interviewing process, and other related wage and hour violations. such suits seek, as applicable, unspecified amounts for unpaid overtime compensation, penalties, and other damages, as well as attorneys' fees. it is not possible to predict the outcome of these lawsuits. however, these lawsuits may consume substantial amounts of the company's financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the lawsuits. in addition, the company and its subsidiaries may become subject to similar lawsuits in the same or other jurisdictions. an unfavorable outcome with respect to 4 these lawsuits and any future lawsuits could, individually or in the aggregate, cause the company to incur substantial liabilities that may have a material adverse effect upon the company's business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, an unfavorable outcome in one or more of these cases could cause the company to change its compensation plans for its employees, which could have a material adverse effect upon the company's business. the company faces risks in operating internationally. the company depends on operations in international markets, including europe, for a significant portion of its business. the european market has been experiencing on-going economic uncertainty which has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the company's operations in europe. to the extent that these adverse economic conditions in europe continue or worsen, demand for the company's services may decline, which could significantly harm its business and results of operations. in addition, these international operations are subject to a number of risks, including general political and economic conditions in those foreign countries, the burden of complying with various foreign laws and technical standards and unpredictable changes in foreign regulations, u.s. legal requirements governing u.s. companies operating in foreign countries, legal and cultural differences in the conduct of business, potential adverse tax consequences and difficulty in staffing and managing international operations. in addition, the company's business may be affected by foreign currency exchange fluctuations. in particular, the company is subject to risk in translating its results in foreign currencies into the u.s. dollar. if the value of the u.s. dollar strengthens relative to other currencies, the company's reported income from these operations could decrease. the value of the u.s. dollar has recently strengthened considerably against a number of major foreign currencies, and a continuation or extension of this strength relative to these other currencies could adversely impact the company's reported income from its international markets and cause its revenue in such markets, when translated into u.s. dollars, to decline. government regulations may result in prohibition or restriction of certain types of employment services or the imposition of additional licensing or tax requirements that may reduce the company's future earnings. in many jurisdictions in which the company operates, the employment services industry is heavily regulated. for example, governmental regulations in some countries restrict the length of contracts and the industries in which the company's employees may be used. in other countries, special taxes, fees or costs are imposed in connection with the use of its employees. additionally, trade unions in some countries have used the political process to target the industry, in an effort to increase the regulatory burden and expense associated with offering or utilizing temporary staffing solutions. the countries in which we operate may, among other things: create additional regulations that prohibit or restrict the types of employment services that the company currently provides; require new or additional benefits be paid to the company's employees; require the company to obtain additional licensing to provide employment services; or increase taxes, such as sales or value-added taxes, payable by the providers of temporary workers. any future regulations may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and financial results because they may make it more difficult or expensive for the company to continue to provide employment services. additionally, as the company expands existing service offerings, adds new service offerings, or enters new markets, it may become subject to additional restrictions and regulations which may impede its business, increase costs and impact profitability. the company may be unable to find sufficient candidates for its staffing business. the company's staffing services business consists of the placement of individuals seeking employment. there can be no assurance that candidates for employment will continue to seek employment through the company. candidates generally seek temporary or regular positions through multiple sources, including the company and its competitors. any shortage of candidates could materially adversely affect the company. the company operates in a highly competitive business and may be unable to retain clients or market share. the staffing services business is highly competitive and, because it is a service business, the barriers to entry are quite low. there are many competitors, some of which have greater resources than the company, and new competitors are entering the market all the time. in addition, long-term contracts form a negligible portion of the company's revenue. therefore, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to retain clients or market share in the future. nor can there be any assurance that the company will, in light of competitive pressures, be able to remain profitable or, if profitable, maintain its current profit margins. the company may incur potential liability to employees and clients. the company's temporary services business entails employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients' workplaces. the company's ability to control the workplace environment is limited. as the employer of record of its temporary employees, the company incurs a risk of liability to its temporary employees for various workplace events, including claims of physical injury, discrimination, harassment or failure to protect confidential personal information. while such claims have not historically had a material 5 adverse effect upon the company, there can be no assurance that such claims in the future will not result in adverse publicity or have a material adverse effect upon the company. the company also incurs a risk of liability to its clients resulting from allegations of errors, omissions or theft by its temporary employees, or allegations of misuse of client confidential information. in many cases, the company has agreed to indemnify its clients in respect of these types of claims. the company maintains insurance with respect to many of such claims. while such claims have not historically had a material adverse effect upon the company, there can be no assurance that the company will continue to be able to obtain insurance at a cost that does not have a material adverse effect upon the company or that such claims (whether by reason of the company not having sufficient insurance or by reason of such claims being outside the scope of the company's insurance) will not have a material adverse effect upon the company. the company is dependent on its management personnel and employees and a failure to attract and retain such personnel could harm its business. the company is engaged in the services business. as such, its success or failure is highly dependent upon the performance of its management personnel and employees, rather than upon technology or upon tangible assets (of which the company has few). there can be no assurance that the company will be able to attract and retain the personnel that are essential to its success. the company's business is subject to extensive government regulation and a failure to comply with regulations could harm its business. the company's business is subject to regulation or licensing in many states in the u.s. and in certain foreign countries. while the company has had no material difficulty complying with regulations in the past, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to continue to obtain all necessary licenses or approvals or that the cost of compliance will not prove to be material. any inability of the company to comply with government regulation or licensing requirements could materially adversely affect the company. in addition, the company's temporary services business entails employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients' workplaces. increased government regulation of the workplace or of the employer-employee relationship, or judicial or administrative proceedings related to such regulation, could materially adversely affect the company. in addition, to the extent that government regulation imposes increased costs upon the company, such as unemployment insurance taxes, there can be no assurance that such costs will not adversely impact the company's profit margins. further, lawsuits or other proceedings related to the company's compliance with government regulations or licensing requirements could materially adversely affect the company. for example, the company is currently named as a defendant in litigation challenging its compliance with the fair credit reporting act. it is not possible to predict the outcome of such litigation; however, such litigation or any future lawsuits or proceedings related to the company's compliance with government regulation or licensing requirements could consume substantial amounts of the company's financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, regardless of the ultimate outcome of any such lawsuits or other proceedings. an unfavorable outcome with respect to such litigation or any future lawsuits or proceedings could, individually or in the aggregate, cause the company to incur substantial liabilities that may have a material adverse effect upon the company's business, financial condition or results of operations. health care reform could increase the costs of the company's temporary staffing operations . in march 2010, the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (the ppaca ) was signed into law in the united states. the ppaca imposed new mandates on individuals and employers, requiring most individuals to have health insurance and, beginning in 2015, assessing penalties on large employers that do not offer health insurance that meets certain coverage, value, or affordability standards. beginning 2015, the company has redesigned its employee benefits to offer health insurance coverage to its temporary candidates in a way that it believes meets the requirements of the ppaca's employer mandate. providing such additional health insurance benefits and an increase in the number of employees who elect to participate in the company's health plans may significantly increase the company's health care-related costs as compared to historical periods. while the company is attempting to recover these costs from its customers, there can be no assurance that it will be successfully able to do so, and any difficulties it encounters in recovering such costs will cause its financial results to suffer. in addition, because the regulations governing the ppaca's employer mandate are new and subject to interpretation, it is possible that despite the company's efforts, the company may incur liability in the form of penalties, fines, or damages if: the health plans offered to temporary candidates are subsequently found not to meet minimum essential coverage, affordability or minimum value standards; the company's method for determining eligibility for coverage is found inadequate; or the company's clients seek indemnification for health care claims by candidates working on client assignments. the cost of any such penalties, fines, or damages could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial and operating results. 6 the company's computer and communications hardware and software systems are vulnerable to damage and interruption. the company's ability to manage its operations successfully is critical to its success and largely depends upon the efficient and uninterrupted operation of its computer and communications hardware and software systems, some of which are managed by third-party vendors. the company's primary computer systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events and errors in usage by the company's employees and those of the company's vendors. in particular, the company's employees or vendors may have access or exposure to personally identifiable or otherwise confidential information and customer data and systems, the misuse of which could result in legal liability. cyber-attacks, including attacks motivated by grievances against the business services industry in general or against the company in particular, may disable or damage its systems. it is possible that the company's security controls or those of its third-party vendors over personal and other data and other practices it follows may not prevent the improper access to or disclosure of personally identifiable or otherwise confidential information. such disclosure or damage to the company's systems could harm its reputation and subject it to government sanctions and liability under its contracts and laws that protect personal data and confidential information, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. the potential risk of security breaches and cyber-attacks may increase as the company introduces new service offerings. failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in the company's financial reporting. failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in the company's financial reporting. if the company's management is unable to certify the effectiveness of its internal controls or if its independent registered public accounting firm cannot render an opinion on the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting, or if material weaknesses in the company's internal controls are identified, the company could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence. in addition, if the company does not maintain adequate financial and management personnel, processes and controls, it may not be able to accurately report its financial performance on a timely basis, which could cause its stock price to fall. the company's results of operations and ability to grow could be materially negatively affected if it cannot successfully keep pace with technological changes in the development and implementation of its services. the company's success depends on its ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes in the development and implementation of its services. the company's business is reliant on a variety of technologies, including those which support hiring and tracking, order management, billing, and client data analytics. if the company does not sufficiently invest in new technology and industry developments, appropriately implement new technologies, or evolve its business at sufficient speed and scale in response to such developments, or if it does not make the right strategic investments to respond to these developments, the company's services, results of operations, and ability to develop and maintain its business could be negatively affected. the demand for the company's services related to sarbanes-oxley or other regulatory compliance may decline. the operations of both the staffing services business and protiviti include services related to sarbanes-oxley and other regulatory compliance. there can be no assurance that there will be ongoing demand for these services. for example, the jumpstart our business startup ( jobs ) act signed into law in april of 2012 allows most companies going public in the u.s. to defer implementation of some of the provisions of sarbanes-oxley for up to five years after their initial public offering. similarly there are a number of proposals currently being considered by the u.s. congress to further delay or, in some cases, remove the requirements of sarbanes-oxley for a number of public companies. these or other similar delays or modifications of the sarbanes oxley requirements could decrease demand for protiviti 's services. long-term contracts do not comprise a significant portion of the company's revenue. because long-term contracts are not a significant part of the company's staffing services business, future results cannot be reliably predicted by considering past trends or extrapolating past results. additionally, the company's clients will frequently enter into non-exclusive arrangements with several firms, which the client is generally able to terminate on short notice and without penalty. the nature of these arrangements further exacerbates the difficulty in predicting our future results. protiviti may be unable to attract and retain key personnel. protiviti is a services business, and is dependent upon its ability to attract and retain qualified, skilled personnel. while protiviti has retained its key personnel to date, there can be no assurance that it will continue to be able to do so. protiviti operates in a highly competitive business and faces competitors who are significantly larger and have more established reputations. protiviti operates in a highly competitive business. as with the company's staffing services business, the barriers to entry are quite low. there are many competitors, some of which have greater resources than protiviti and many of which have been in operation far longer than protiviti . in particular, protiviti faces competition from the big four accounting firms, which have been in operation for a considerable period of time and have established reputations and client bases. because the principal factors upon which competition is based are reputation, technology, tools, project methodologies, 7 price of services and depth of skills of personnel, there can be no assurance that protiviti will be successful in attracting and retaining clients or be able to maintain the technology, personnel and other requirements to successfully compete. protiviti's operations could subject it to liability. the business of protiviti consists of providing business consulting and internal audit services. liability could be incurred or litigation could be instituted against the company or protiviti for claims related to these activities or to prior transactions or activities. there can be no assurance that such liability or litigation will not have a material adverse impact on protiviti or the company. "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for further discussion of the impact of foreign currency exchange rates on the company's results of operations and financial condition. years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014 revenues. the company's revenues were $5.09 billion for the year ended december 31, 2015 , increasing by 8.5% compared to $4.70 billion for the year ended december 31, 2014 . revenues from foreign operations represented 19% and 23% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. the company analyzes its revenues for three reportable segments: temporary and consultant staffing, permanent placement staffing and risk consulting and internal audit services. in 2015 , revenues for all three of the company's reportable segments were up compared to 2014 . results were strongest domestically with demand also improving in several other countries, most notably within europe. risk consulting and internal audit services continued to post strong growth rates. contributing factors for each reportable segment are discussed below in further detail. temporary and consultant staffing services revenues were $3.93 billion for the year ended december 31, 2015 , increasing by 6.9% compared to revenues of $3.68 billion for the year ended december 31, 2014 . key drivers of temporary and consultant staffing services revenues include average hourly bill rates and the number of hours worked by the company's temporary employees on client engagements. on a same-day, constant-currency basis, temporary and consultant staffing services revenues increased 10.3% for 2015 , compared to 2014 , due primarily to an increase in temporary hours worked by the company's 17 temporary employees and inclusive of a 4.5% increase in average bill rates. in the u.s., 2015 revenues increased 11.5% on an as reported basis and 11.4% on a same-day basis, compared to 2014 . for the company's international operations, 2015 revenues decreased 8.9% on an as reported basis and increased 6.4% on a same-day, constant-currency basis, compared to 2014 . permanent placement staffing revenues were $421 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 , increasing by 6.8% compared to revenues of $395 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 . key drivers of permanent placement staffing revenues consist of the number of candidate placements and average fees earned per placement. on a same-day, constant-currency basis, permanent placement revenues increased 11.7% for 2015 compared to 2014 . in the u.s., 2015 revenues increased 15.5% on an as reported basis and 15.4% on a same-day basis, compared to 2014 . for the company's international operations, 2015 revenues decreased 9.3% on an as reported basis, and on a same-day, constant-currency basis increased 4.9% , compared to 2014 , driven primarily by an increase in number of placements. historically, demand for permanent placement services is even more sensitive to economic and labor market conditions than demand for temporary and consulting staffing services and this is expected to continue. risk consulting and internal audit services revenues were $743 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 , increasing by 19.0% compared to revenues of $624 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 . key drivers of risk consulting and internal audit services revenues are the billable hours worked by consultants on client engagements and average hourly bill rates. on a same-day, constant-currency basis, risk consulting and internal audit services revenues increased 21.8% for 2015 compared to 2014 , due primarily to an increase in billable hours worked. in the u.s., 2015 revenues increased 22.3% on an as reported basis, or 22.5% on a same-day basis, compared to 2014 . for the company's international operations, 2015 revenues increased 4.0% on an as reported basis, and on a same-day, constant-currency basis increased 18.7% , compared to 2014 . a reconciliation of the non-gaap year-over-year revenue growth rates to the as reported year-over-year revenue growth rates for the year ended december 31, 2015 , is presented in the following table: global united states international temporary and consultant staffing as reported 6.9 % 11.5 % -8.9 % billing days impact 0.0 % -0.1 % -0.1 % currency impact 3.4 % 15.4 % same billing days and constant currency 10.3 % 11.4 % 6.4 % permanent placement staffing as reported 6.8 % 15.5 % -9.3 % billing days impact -0.1 % -0.1 % 0.0 % currency impact 5.0 % 14.2 % same billing days and constant currency 11.7 % 15.4 % 4.9 % risk consulting and internal audit services as reported 19.0 % 22.3 % 4.0 % billing days impact 0.1 % 0.2 % 0.2 % currency impact 2.7 % 14.5 % same billing days and constant currency 21.8 % 22.5 % 18.7 % gross margin . the company's gross margin dollars were $2.11 billion for the year ended december 31, 2015 , up 10.0% from $1.92 billion for the year ended december 31, 2014 . for 2015 compared to 2014 , gross margin dollars for all three of the company's reportable segments increased. gross margin dollars as a percentage of revenues increased for both the company's temporary and consultant staffing services segment and the risk consulting and internal audit services segment on a year-over-year basis. contributing factors for each reportable segment are discussed below in further detail. gross margin dollars from the company's temporary and consultant staffing services represent revenues less direct costs of services, which consist of payroll, payroll taxes and benefit costs for temporary employees, and reimbursable expenses. the key drivers of gross margin are: i) pay/bill spreads, which represent the differential between wages paid to temporary employees and amounts billed to clients; ii) fringe costs, which are primarily composed of payroll taxes and benefit costs for 18 temporary and consultant staffing employees; and iii) conversion revenues, which are earned when a temporary position converts to a permanent position with the company's client. gross margin dollars for the company's temporary and consultant staffing services division were $1.46 billion for the year ended december 31, 2015 , up 8.8% from $1.35 billion for the year ended december 31, 2014 . as a percentage of revenues, gross margin dollars for temporary and consultant staffing services were 37.2% in 2015 , up from 36.6% in 2014 . this year-over-year improvement in gross margin percentage of 0.6% was primarily attributable to higher pay/bill spreads and lower fringe costs driven by lower state unemployment insurance expenses in 2015 compared to 2014. gross margin dollars from permanent placement staffing services represent revenues less reimbursable expenses. gross margin dollars for the company's permanent placement staffing division were $421 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 , up 6.7% from $394 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 . because reimbursable expenses for permanent placement staffing services are de minimis, the increase in gross margin dollars is substantially explained by the increase in revenues previously discussed. gross margin dollars for risk consulting and internal audit services represent revenues less direct costs of services, which consist primarily of professional staff payroll, payroll taxes, benefit costs and reimbursable expenses. the primary drivers of risk consulting and internal audit services gross margin are: i) the relative composition of and number of professional staff and their respective pay and bill rates; and ii) staff utilization, which is the relationship of time spent on client engagements in proportion to the total time available for the company's risk consulting and internal audit services staff. gross margin dollars for the company's risk consulting and internal audit division were $230 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 , up 25.6% from $183 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 . as a percentage of revenues, gross margin dollars for risk consulting and internal audit services were 31.0% in 2015 , up from 29.4% in 2014 . the improvement in 2015 compared to 2014 was due to a better alignment of the mix of professional staff relative to client demand. selling, general and administrative expenses . the company's selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of staff compensation, advertising, depreciation and occupancy costs. the company's selling, general and administrative expenses were $1.53 billion for the year ended december 31, 2015 , up 7.6% from $1.43 billion for the year ended december 31, 2014 . as a percentage of revenues, the company's selling, general and administrative expenses were 30.1% for 2015 , down from 30.4% for 2014 . in 2015 , selling, general and administrative expenses increased for all three of the company's reportable segments compared to 2014 . as percentage of revenue, selling, general and administrative expenses for the company's permanent placement staffing and risk consulting and internal audit services divisions decreased in 2015 compared to 2014, however for the temporary and consulting staffing division, selling, general and administrative expenses increased as a percentage of revenue. contributing factors for each reportable segment are discussed below in further detail. selling, general and administrative expenses for the company's temporary and consultant staffing services division were $1.06 billion for the year ended december 31, 2015 , up 7.8% from $987 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 . as a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses for temporary and consultant staffing services were 27.1% in 2015 , up from 26.8% in 2014 . for 2015 compared to 2014 , the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue is primarily due to an increase in field compensation expense and variable overhead, partially offset by a decrease in admin compensation and fixed overhead. selling, general and administrative expenses for the company's permanent placement staffing division were $336 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 , up 6.2% from $316 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 . as a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses for permanent placement staffing services were 79.7% in 2015 , down from 80.1% in 2014 . for 2015 compared to 2014 , decreases in fixed overhead and variable overhead, partially offset by an increase in field compensation drove the overall decrease as a percentage of revenues. selling, general and administrative expenses for the company's risk consulting and internal audit services division were $134 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 , up 9.3% from $123 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 . as a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses for risk consulting and internal audit services were 18.1% in 2015 , down from 19.7% in 2014 . for 2015 compared to 2014 , improved leverage of general and administrative expenses, as a result of higher revenue, drove the overall decrease as a percentage of revenues. operating income . the company's total operating income was $581 million , or 11.4% of revenues, for the year ended december 31, 2015 , up 16.8% from $497 million, or 10.6% of revenues, for the year ended december 31, 2014 . for the company's temporary and consultant staffing services division, operating income was $400 million , or 10.2% of applicable revenues, up 11.5% from $359 million, or 9.8% of applicable revenues, in 2014 . for the company's permanent placement 19 staffing division, operating income was $85 million , or 20.2% of applicable revenues, up 8.5% from operating income of $78 million, or 19.9% of applicable revenues, in 2014 . for the company's risk consulting and internal audit services division, operating income was $96 million , or 12.9% of applicable revenues, up 58.9% from operating income of $60 million, or 9.7% of applicable revenues, in 2014 . provision for income taxes. the provision for income taxes was relatively consistent at 38.4% and 38.5% for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013 revenues. the company's revenues were $4.70 billion for the year ended december 31, 2014, increasing by 10.6% compared to $4.25 billion for the year ended december 31, 2013. revenues from foreign operations represented 23% and 24% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. the company analyzes its revenues for three reportable segments: temporary and consultant staffing, permanent placement staffing and risk consulting and internal audit services. in 2014, revenues for all three of the company's reportable segments were up compared to 2013. results were strongest domestically with broad-based revenue expansion across the company's staffing and consulting operations. contributing factors for each reportable segment are discussed below in further detail. temporary and consultant staffing services revenues were $3.68 billion for the year ended december 31, 2014, increasing by 9.1% compared to revenues of $3.37 billion for the year ended december 31, 2013. key drivers of temporary and consultant staffing services revenues include average hourly bill rates and hours worked by the company's temporary employees on client engagements. on a same-day, constant-currency basis, temporary and consultant staffing services revenues increased 9.5% for 2014 compared to 2013, due primarily to an increase in temporary hours worked by the company's temporary employees and inclusive of a 3.2% increase in average bill rates. in the u.s., 2014 revenues increased 10.6% on both an as reported and a same-day basis, compared to 2013. for the company's international operations, 2014 revenues increased 4.2% and on a same-day, constant-currency basis increased 5.9%, compared to 2013. permanent placement staffing revenues were $395 million for the year ended december 31, 2014, increasing by 13.5% compared to revenues of $348 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. key drivers of permanent placement staffing revenues consist of number of candidate placements and average fees earned per placement. on a same-day, constant-currency basis, permanent placement revenues increased 14.3% for 2014 compared to 2013. in the u.s., 2014 revenues increased 17.8% on both an as reported and same-day basis, compared to 2013, driven primarily by an increase in number of placements. historically, demand for permanent placement services is even more sensitive to economic and labor market conditions than demand for temporary and consulting staffing services and this is expected to continue. for the company's international operations, 2014 revenues increased 6.3%, and on a same-day, constant-currency basis increased 8.5%, compared to 2013. risk consulting and internal audit services revenues were $624 million for the year ended december 31, 2014, increasing by 18.1% compared to revenues of $528 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. key drivers of risk consulting and internal audit services revenues are the billable hours worked by consultants on client engagements and average hourly bill rates. on a same-day, constant-currency basis, risk consulting and internal audit services revenues increased 17.5% for 2014 compared to 2013, due primarily to an increase in billable hours worked. in the u.s., 2014 revenues increased 21.9%, or 21.0% on a same-day basis, compared to 2013. for the company's international operations, 2014 revenues increased 3.8% and on a same-day, constant-currency basis increased 4.1%, compared to 2013. 20 a reconciliation of the non-gaap year-over-year revenue growth rates to the as reported year-over-year revenue growth rates for the year ended december 31, 2014 , is presented in the following table: global united states international temporary and consultant staffing as reported 9.1 % 10.6 % 4.2 % billing days impact 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % currency impact 0.4 % 1.7 % same billing days and constant currency 9.5 % 10.6 % 5.9 % permanent placement staffing as reported 13.5 % 17.8 % 6.3 % billing days impact 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % currency impact 0.8 % 2.2 % same billing days and constant currency 14.3 % 17.8 % 8.5 % risk consulting and internal audit services as reported 18.1 % 21.9 % 3.8 % billing days impact -0.8 % -0.9 % -0.8 % currency impact 0.2 % 1.1 % same billing days and constant currency 17.5 % 21.0 % 4.1 % gross margin . the company's gross margin dollars were $1.92 billion for the year ended december 31, 2014, up 11.6% from $1.72 billion for the year ended december 31, 2013. for 2014 compared to 2013, gross margin dollars for all three of the company's reportable segments increased. gross margin dollars as a percentage of revenues increased for both the company's temporary and consultant staffing services segment and the risk consulting and internal audit services segment on a year-over-year basis. contributing factors for each reportable segment are discussed below in further detail. gross margin dollars from the company's temporary and consultant staffing services represent revenues less direct costs of services, which consist of payroll, payroll taxes and benefit costs for temporary employees, and reimbursable expenses.the key drivers of gross margin are: i) pay/bill spreads, which represent the differential between wages paid to temporary employees and amounts billed to clients; ii) fringe costs, which are primarily composed of payroll taxes and benefit costs for temporary and consultant staffing employees; and iii) conversion revenues, which are earned when a temporary position converts to a permanent position with the company's client. gross margin dollars for the company's temporary and consultant staffing services division were $1.35 billion for the year ended december 31, 2014 , up 10.2% from $1.22 billion for the year ended december 31, 2013. as a percentage of revenues, gross margin dollars for temporary and consultant staffing services were 36.6% in 2014, up from 36.2% in 2013. this year-over-year improvement in gross margin percentage of 0.4% was primarily attributable to lower fringe costs driven by lower state unemployment insurance expenses in 2014 compared to 2013. gross margin dollars from permanent placement staffing services represent revenues less reimbursable expenses. gross margin dollars for the company's permanent placement staffing division were $394 million for the year ended december 31, 2014, up 13.5% from $348 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. because reimbursable expenses for permanent placement staffing services are de minimis, the increase in gross margin dollars is substantially explained by the increase in revenues previously discussed. gross margin dollars for risk consulting and internal audit services represent revenues less direct costs of services, which consist primarily of professional staff payroll, payroll taxes, benefit costs and reimbursable expenses. the primary drivers of risk consulting and internal audit services gross margin are: i) the relative composition of and number of professional staff and their respective pay and bill rates; and ii) staff utilization, which is the relationship of time spent on client engagements in proportion to the total time available for the company's risk consulting and internal audit services staff. gross margin dollars for the company's risk consulting and internal audit division were $183 million for the year ended december 31, 2014, up 18.5% from $155 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. as a percentage of revenues, gross margin dollars for risk consulting and internal audit services were 29.4% in 2014, up from 29.3% in 2013. the increase in 2014 gross margin 21 percentage was primarily the result of higher staff utilization rates. the slight improvement in 2014 was due to a better alignment of the mix of professional staff relative to client demand. selling, general and administrative expenses . the company's selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of staff compensation, advertising, depreciation and occupancy costs. the company's selling, general and administrative expenses were $1.43 billion for the year ended december 31, 2014, up 7.6% from $1.32 billion for the year ended december 31, 2013. as a percentage of revenues, the company's selling, general and administrative expenses were 30.4% for 2014, down from 31.2% for 2013. in 2014, selling, general and administrative expenses increased for all three of the company's reportable segments compared to 2013. as percentage of revenue, selling, general and administrative expenses for all three of the company's reportable segments decreased in 2014 compared to 2013. contributing factors for each reportable segment are discussed below in further detail. selling, general and administrative expenses for the company's temporary and consultant staffing services division were $987 million for the year ended december 31, 2014, up 7.3% from $920 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. as a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses for temporary and consultant staffing services were 26.8% in 2014, down from 27.3% in 2013. for 2014 compared to 2013, the decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue is primarily due to an improvement in leverage resulting from higher revenue in 2014 . selling, general and administrative expenses for the company's permanent placement staffing division were $316 million for the year ended december 31, 2014, up 7.8% from $293 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. as a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses for permanent placement staffing services were 80.1% in 2014, down from 84.3% in 2013. for 2014 compared to 2013, decreases in field compensation, administrative compensation and fixed overhead drove the overall decrease as a percentage of revenues. selling, general and administrative expenses for the company's risk consulting and internal audit services division were $123 million for the year ended december 31, 2014, up 9.8% from $112 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. as a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses for risk consulting and internal audit services were 19.7% in 2014, down from 21.2% in 2013. for 2014 compared to 2013, improved leverage in general and administrative expenses, as a result of higher revenue, drove the overall decrease as a percentage of revenues. operating income . the company's total operating income was $497 million, or 10.6% of revenues, for the year ended december 31, 2014, up 24.8% from $398 million, or 9.4% of revenues, for the year ended december 31, 2013. for the company's temporary and consultant staffing services division, operating income was $359 million, or 9.8% of applicable revenues, up 19.0% from $301 million, or 8.9% of applicable revenues, in 2013. for the company's permanent placement staffing division, operating income was $78 million, or 19.9% of applicable revenues, up 44.0% from operating income of $54 million, or 15.6% of applicable revenues, in 2013. for the company's risk consulting and internal audit services division, operating income was $60 million, or 9.7% of applicable revenues, up 41.2% from operating income of $43 million, or 8.1% of applicable revenues, in 2013. provision for income taxes. the provision for income taxes was 38.5% and 36.6% for the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. the 2014 increase is primarily due to fewer available foreign tax benefits and a decrease in federal tax credits. liquidity and capital resources the change in the company's liquidity during the years ended december 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , is primarily the net effect of funds generated by operations and the funds used for capital expenditures, repurchases of common stock and payment of dividends. cash and cash equivalents were $225 million , $287 million and $276 million at december 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. operating activities provided $438 million during the year ended december 31, 2015 , offset by $118 million and $369 million of net cash used in investing activities and financing activities, respectively. operating activities provided $341 million during the year ended december 31, 2014 , offset by $89 million and $230 million of net cash used in investing activities and financing activities, respectively. operating activities provided $309 million during the year ended december 31, 2013 , offset by $98 million and $220 million of net cash used in investing activities and financing activities, respectively. 22 operating activities net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2015 , was $438 million . this was composed of net income of $358 million adjusted upward for non-cash items of $89 million , offset by net cash used in changes in working capital of $9 million . net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2014 , was composed of net income of $306 million adjusted for non-cash items of $90 million, offset by net cash used in changes in working capital of $55 million. net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2013 , was composed of net income of $252 million adjusted for non-cash items of $74 million, and net cash provided by changes in working capital of $17 million. investing activities cash used in investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2015 , was $118 million . this was composed of capital expenditures of $75 million , deposits to trusts for employee deferred compensation plans of $28 million , and payment for an acquisition, net of cash acquired, of $15 million . cash used in investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2014 , was $89 million. this was primarily composed of capital expenditures of $63 million and deposits to trusts for employee deferred compensation plans of $26 million. cash used in investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2013 , was $98 million. this was primarily composed of capital expenditures of $54 million and deposits to trusts for employee deferred compensation plans of $44 million. financing activities cash used in financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2015 , was $369 million . this included repurchases of $271 million in common stock and $108 million in cash dividends to stockholders, offset by the proceeds of $2 million from exercises of stock options and the excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $9 million . cash used in financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2014 , was $230 million. this included repurchases of $154 million in common stock and $97 million in cash dividends to stockholders, offset by the proceeds of $14 million from exercises of stock options and the excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $7 million. cash used in financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2013 , was $220 million. this included repurchases of $168 million in common stock, $89 million in cash dividends to stockholders and $4 million of payments of notes payable and other indebtedness, offset by proceeds of $33 million from exercises of stock options and the excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $8 million. as of december 31, 2015 , the company is authorized to repurchase, from time to time, up to 10.4 million additional shares of the company's common stock on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, depending on market conditions. during the years ended december 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , the company repurchased approximately 4.3 million shares, 3.3 million shares and 3.3 million shares of common stock on the open market for a total cost of $228 million, $162 million and $118 million, respectively. additional stock repurchases were made in connection with employee stock plans, whereby company shares were tendered by employees for the payment of exercise price and applicable statutory withholding taxes. during the years ended december 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , such repurchases totaled approximately 0.5 million shares, 0.5 million shares and 1.2 million shares at a cost of $25 million, $22 million and $44 million, respectively. repurchases of shares have been funded with cash generated from operations. the company's working capital at december 31, 2015 , included $225 million in cash and cash equivalents. the company expects that internally generated cash will be sufficient to support the working capital needs of the company, the company's fixed payments, dividends, and other obligations on both a short-term and long-term basis. on february 11, 2016, the company announced a quarterly dividend of $.22 per share to be paid to all shareholders of record on february 25, 2016. the dividend will be paid on march 15, 2016. the company's cash flows generated from operations are also the primary source for funding various contractual obligations. the table below summarizes the company's major commitments as of december 31, 2015 (in thousands): payments due by period contractual obligations 2016 2017 and 2018 2019 and 2020 thereafter total long-term debt obligations $ 252 $ 505 $ 505 $ 252 $ 1,514 operating lease obligations 88,177 131,364 80,431 81,437 381,409 purchase obligations 42,044 28,772 2,840 73,656 other liabilities 1,062 1,853 669 6,493 10,077 total $ 131,535 $ 162,494 $ 84,445 $ 88,182 $ 466,656 23 long-term debt obligations consist of promissory notes and related interest as well as other forms of indebtedness issued in connection with certain acquisitions and other payment obligations. operating lease obligations consist of minimum rental commitments for 2016 and thereafter under non-cancelable leases in effect at december 31, 2015 . purchase obligations consist of purchase commitments primarily related to telecom service agreements, software licenses and subscriptions, and computer hardware and software maintenance agreements. other liabilities consist of asset retirement and deferred compensation obligations. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk because a portion of the company's net revenues are derived from its operations outside the u.s. and are denominated in local currencies, the company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations. the company's exposure to foreign currency exchange rates relates primarily to the company's foreign subsidiaries. exchange rates impact the u.s. dollar value of the company's reported revenues, expenses, earnings, assets and liabilities. for the year ended december 31, 2015 , approximately 19% of the company's revenues were generated outside of the united states. these operations transact business in their functional currency, which is the same as their local currency. as a result, fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar, particularly the canadian dollar, british pound, euro, and australian dollar have an impact on the company's reported results. under gaap, revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into u.s. dollars at the monthly average exchange rates prevailing during the period. consequently, as the value of the u.s. dollar changes relative to the currencies of the company's non-u.s. markets, the company's reported results vary. during 2015, the u.s. dollar fluctuated, but generally strengthened, against the primary currencies in which the company conducts business. currency exchange rates had the effect of decreasing reported net service revenues by $162 million, or 3.5%, in 2015 compared to prior year. the general strengthening of the u.s. dollar also affected the reported level of expenses incurred in the company's foreign operations. because substantially all of the company's foreign operations generated revenues and incurred expenses within the same country and currency, the favorable effect of lower reported operating expenses largely offset the decline in reported revenues. reported net income was $6.6 million, or 2.2%, lower in the year ended december 31, 2015 compared to prior year due to the effect of currency exchange rates. for the month ended january 31, 2016, the u.s. dollar strengthened against the euro, british pound, canadian dollar, and australian dollar. if currency exchange rates were to remain at january 2016 levels throughout 2016, the company's 2016 full-year reported revenues would be impacted unfavorably, mostly offset by a favorable impact to operating expenses. thus, the impact to reported net income would likely be immaterial. fluctuations in currency exchange rates impact the u.s. dollar amount of the company's stockholders' equity. the assets and liabilities of the company's non-u.s. subsidiaries are translated into u.s. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at period end. the resulting translation adjustments are recorded in stockholders' equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. although currency fluctuations impact the company's reported results and shareholders' equity, such fluctuations generally do not affect cash flow or result in actual economic gains or losses. the company generally has few cross-border transfers of funds, except for transfers to the u.s. for payment of intercompany loans, working capital loans made between the u.s. and the company's foreign subsidiaries, and dividends from the company's foreign subsidiaries. 24risk factors the company's business prospects are subject to various risks and uncertainties that impact its business. the most important of these risks and uncertainties are as follows: any reduction in global economic activity may harm the company's business and financial condition. the demand for the company's services, in particular its staffing services, is highly dependent upon the state of the economy and upon the staffing needs of the company's clients. certain of the company's markets have recently or are currently experiencing prolonged economic downturns characterized by high unemployment, limited availability of credit and decreased consumer and business spending. in addition, certain geopolitical events, including the united kingdom's vote to withdraw from the european union ( brexit ), have caused significant economic, market, political and regulatory uncertainty in some of the company's markets. any decline in the economic condition or employment levels of the u.s. or of any of the foreign countries in which the company does business, or in the economic condition of any region of any of the foregoing, or in any specific industry may severely reduce the demand for the company's services and thereby significantly decrease the company's revenues and profits. further, continued or intensifying economic, political or regulatory uncertainty in the company's markets could reduce demand for the company's services. the company's business depends on a strong reputation and anything that harms its reputation will likely harm its results. as a provider of temporary and permanent staffing solutions as well as consultant services, the company's reputation is dependent upon the performance of the employees it places with its clients and the services rendered by its consultants. the company depends on its reputation and name recognition to secure engagements and to hire qualified employees and consultants. if the company's clients become dissatisfied with the performance of those employees or consultants or if any of those employees or consultants engage in or are believed to have engaged in conduct that is harmful to the company's clients, the company's ability to maintain or expand its client base may be harmed. the company and certain subsidiaries are defendants in several lawsuits that could cause the company to incur substantial liabilities . the company and certain subsidiaries are defendants in several actual or asserted class and representative action lawsuits brought by or on behalf of the company's current and former employees alleging violations of federal and state law with respect to certain wage and hour related matters, as well as claims challenging the company's compliance with the fair credit reporting act. the various claims made in one or more of such lawsuits include, among other things, the misclassification of certain employees as exempt employees under applicable law, failure to comply with wage statement requirements, failure to compensate certain employees for time spent performing activities related to the interviewing process, and other related wage and hour violations. such suits seek, as applicable, unspecified amounts for unpaid overtime compensation, penalties, and other damages, as well as attorneys' fees. it is not possible to predict the outcome of these lawsuits. however, these lawsuits may consume substantial amounts of the company's financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the lawsuits. in addition, the company and its subsidiaries may become subject to similar lawsuits in the same or other jurisdictions. an unfavorable outcome with respect to these lawsuits and any future lawsuits could, individually or in the aggregate, cause the company to incur substantial liabilities that may have a material adverse effect upon the company's business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, 4 an unfavorable outcome in one or more of these cases could cause the company to change its compensation plans for its employees, which could have a material adverse effect upon the company's business. the company faces risks in operating internationally. the company depends on operations in international markets, including europe, for a significant portion of its business. the european market has been experiencing on-going economic uncertainty, which has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the company's operations in europe. in particular, brexit has contributed to, and may continue to contribute to, european economic, market and regulatory uncertainty and could adversely affect european or worldwide economic, market, regulatory, or political conditions. to the extent that adverse economic conditions and uncertainty in europe (related to brexit or otherwise) continue or worsen, demand for the company's services may decline, which could significantly harm its business and results of operations. in addition, these international operations are subject to a number of risks, including general political and economic conditions in those foreign countries, the burden of complying with various foreign laws and technical standards and unpredictable changes in foreign regulations, u.s. legal requirements governing u.s. companies operating in foreign countries, legal and cultural differences in the conduct of business, potential adverse tax consequences and difficulty in staffing and managing international operations. in addition, the company's business may be affected by foreign currency exchange fluctuations. in particular, the company is subject to risk in translating its results in foreign currencies into the u.s. dollar. if the value of the u.s. dollar strengthens relative to other currencies, the company's reported income from these operations could decrease. the value of the u.s. dollar has recently strengthened considerably against a number of major foreign currencies, and a continuation or extension of this strength relative to these other currencies could adversely impact the company's reported income from its international markets and cause its revenue in such markets, when translated into u.s. dollars, to decline. the company could also be exposed to fines and penalties under u.s. or local jurisdiction trade sanctions and controls as well as laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials. although the company has implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, it cannot be sure that its employees, contractors or agents will not violate such policies. any such violations could materially damage the company's reputation, brand, business and operating results. further, changes in u.s. laws and policies governing foreign trade or investment and use of foreign operations or workers, and any negative sentiments towards the united states as a result of such changes, could adversely affect the company's operations. government regulations may result in prohibition or restriction of certain types of employment services or the imposition of additional licensing or tax requirements that may reduce the company's future earnings. in many jurisdictions in which the company operates, the employment services industry is heavily regulated. for example, governmental regulations in some countries restrict the length of contracts and the industries in which the company's employees may be used. in other countries, special taxes, fees or costs are imposed in connection with the use of its employees. additionally, trade unions in some countries have used the political process to target the industry, in an effort to increase the regulatory burden and expense associated with offering or utilizing temporary staffing solutions. the countries in which we operate may, among other things: create additional regulations that prohibit or restrict the types of employment services that the company currently provides; require new or additional benefits be paid to the company's employees; require the company to obtain additional licensing to provide employment services; or increase taxes, such as sales or value-added taxes, payable by the providers of temporary workers. any future regulations may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and financial results because they may make it more difficult or expensive for the company to continue to provide employment services. additionally, as the company expands existing service offerings, adds new service offerings, or enters new markets, it may become subject to additional restrictions and regulations which may impede its business, increase costs and impact profitability. the company may be unable to find sufficient candidates for its staffing business. the company's staffing services business consists of the placement of individuals seeking employment. there can be no assurance that candidates for employment will continue to seek employment through the company. candidates generally seek temporary or regular positions through multiple sources, including the company and its competitors. any shortage of candidates could materially adversely affect the company. the company operates in a highly competitive business and may be unable to retain clients or market share. the staffing services business is highly competitive and, because it is a service business, the barriers to entry are quite low. there are many competitors, some of which have greater resources than the company, and new competitors are entering the market all the time. in addition, long-term contracts form a negligible portion of the company's revenue. therefore, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to retain clients or market share in the future. nor can there be any assurance that the 5 company will, in light of competitive pressures, be able to remain profitable or, if profitable, maintain its current profit margins. the company may incur potential liability to employees and clients. the company's temporary services business entails employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients' workplaces. the company's ability to control the workplace environment is limited. as the employer of record of its temporary employees, the company incurs a risk of liability to its temporary employees for various workplace events, including claims of physical injury, discrimination, harassment or failure to protect confidential personal information. while such claims have not historically had a material adverse effect upon the company, there can be no assurance that such claims in the future will not result in adverse publicity or have a material adverse effect upon the company. the company also incurs a risk of liability to its clients resulting from allegations of errors, omissions or theft by its temporary employees, or allegations of misuse of client confidential information. in many cases, the company has agreed to indemnify its clients in respect of these types of claims. the company maintains insurance with respect to many of such claims. while such claims have not historically had a material adverse effect upon the company, there can be no assurance that the company will continue to be able to obtain insurance at a cost that does not have a material adverse effect upon the company or that such claims (whether by reason of the company not having sufficient insurance or by reason of such claims being outside the scope of the company's insurance) will not have a material adverse effect upon the company. the company is dependent on its management personnel and employees and a failure to attract and retain such personnel could harm its business. the company is engaged in the services business. as such, its success or failure is highly dependent upon the performance of its management personnel and employees, rather than upon technology or upon tangible assets (of which the company has few). there can be no assurance that the company will be able to attract and retain the personnel that are essential to its success. the company's business is subject to extensive government regulation and a failure to comply with regulations could harm its business. the company's business is subject to regulation or licensing in many states in the u.s. and in certain foreign countries. while the company has had no material difficulty complying with regulations in the past, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to continue to obtain all necessary licenses or approvals or that the cost of compliance will not prove to be material. any inability of the company to comply with government regulation or licensing requirements could materially adversely affect the company. further, changes to existing regulation or licensing requirements could impose additional costs and other burdens or limitations on the company's operations. in addition, the company's temporary services business entails employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients' workplaces. increased government regulation of the workplace or of the employer-employee relationship, or judicial or administrative proceedings related to such regulation, could materially adversely affect the company. in addition, to the extent that government regulation imposes increased costs upon the company, such as unemployment insurance taxes, there can be no assurance that such costs will not adversely impact the company's profit margins. further, lawsuits or other proceedings related to the company's compliance with government regulations or licensing requirements could materially adversely affect the company. for example, the company is currently named as a defendant in litigation challenging its compliance with the fair credit reporting act. it is not possible to predict the outcome of such litigation; however, such litigation or any future lawsuits or proceedings related to the company's compliance with government regulation or licensing requirements could consume substantial amounts of the company's financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, regardless of the ultimate outcome of any such lawsuits or other proceedings. an unfavorable outcome with respect to such litigation or any future lawsuits or proceedings could, individually or in the aggregate, cause the company to incur substantial liabilities that may have a material adverse effect upon the company's business, financial condition or results of operations. health care reform could increase the costs of the company's temporary staffing operations . in march 2010, the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (the ppaca ) was signed into law in the united states. in 2015, the company redesigned its employee benefits to offer health insurance coverage to its temporary candidates in order to meet the requirements of the ppaca's employer mandate. numerous statements made by president trump and members of the u.s. congress indicate that it is likely that legislation will be passed by congress and signed into law by president trump that repeals the ppaca, in whole or in part, and/or introduces a new form of health care reform. it is unclear at this point what the scope of such legislation will be and when it will become effective. because of the uncertainty surrounding this replacement health care reform legislation, we cannot predict with any certainty the likely impact of the ppaca's repeal or the adoption of any other health care reform legislation on the company's financial condition or operating results. whether or not there is alternative health care legislation enacted in the u.s., there is likely to be significant disruption to the health care market in the coming months and years and the costs of the company's health care expenditures may increase. 6 the company's computer and communications hardware and software systems are vulnerable to damage and interruption. the company's ability to manage its operations successfully is critical to its success and largely depends upon the efficient and uninterrupted operation of its computer and communications hardware and software systems, some of which are managed by third-party vendors. the company's primary computer systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events and errors in usage by the company's employees and those of the company's vendors. in particular, the company's employees or vendors may have access or exposure to personally identifiable or otherwise confidential information and customer data and systems, the misuse of which could result in legal liability. cyber-attacks, including attacks motivated by grievances against the business services industry in general or against the company in particular, may disable or damage its systems. it is possible that the company's security controls or those of its third-party vendors over personal and other data and other practices it follows may not prevent the improper access to or disclosure of personally identifiable or otherwise confidential information. such disclosure or damage to the company's systems could harm its reputation and subject it to government sanctions and liability under its contracts and laws that protect personal data and confidential information, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. the potential risk of security breaches and cyber-attacks may increase as the company introduces new service offerings. it is also possible that certain jurisdictions may enact laws or regulations in respect of control of personal information that could increase the company's costs or otherwise adversely impact its operations. failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in the company's financial reporting. failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in the company's financial reporting. if the company's management is unable to certify the effectiveness of its internal controls or if its independent registered public accounting firm cannot render an opinion on the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting, or if material weaknesses in the company's internal controls are identified, the company could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence. in addition, if the company does not maintain adequate financial and management personnel, processes and controls, it may not be able to accurately report its financial performance on a timely basis, which could cause its stock price to fall. the company's results of operations and ability to grow could be materially negatively affected if it cannot successfully keep pace with technological changes in the development and implementation of its services. the company's success depends on its ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes in the development and implementation of its services. the company's business is reliant on a variety of technologies, including those which support hiring and tracking, order management, billing, and client data analytics. if the company does not sufficiently invest in new technology and industry developments, appropriately implement new technologies, or evolve its business at sufficient speed and scale in response to such developments, or if it does not make the right strategic investments to respond to these developments, the company's services, results of operations, and ability to develop and maintain its business could be negatively affected. the demand for the company's services related to sarbanes-oxley or other regulatory compliance may decline. the operations of both the staffing services business and protiviti include services related to sarbanes-oxley and other regulatory compliance. there can be no assurance that there will be ongoing demand for these services. for example, the jumpstart our business startup ( jobs ) act signed into law in april of 2012 allows most companies going public in the u.s. to defer implementation of some of the provisions of sarbanes-oxley for up to five years after their initial public offering. similarly there are a number of proposals currently being considered by the u.s. congress to further delay or, in some cases, remove the requirements of sarbanes-oxley for a number of public companies. further, many analysts are expecting the new u.s. congress and president trump to seek to repeal or modify legislation that is viewed as having over-regulated certain sectors of the u.s. economy and decreased the incentive for u.s. companies to go public and their ability to effectively compete with foreign competition. these or other similar modifications of the regulatory requirements could decrease demand for protiviti's services. long-term contracts do not comprise a significant portion of the company's revenue. because long-term contracts are not a significant part of the company's staffing services business, future results cannot be reliably predicted by considering past trends or extrapolating past results. additionally, the company's clients will frequently enter into non-exclusive arrangements with several firms, which the client is generally able to terminate on short notice and without penalty. the nature of these arrangements further exacerbates the difficulty in predicting our future results. protiviti may be unable to attract and retain key personnel. protiviti is a services business, and is dependent upon its ability to attract and retain qualified, skilled personnel. while protiviti has retained its key personnel to date, there can be no assurance that it will continue to be able to do so. protiviti operates in a highly competitive business and faces competitors who are significantly larger and have more established reputations. protiviti operates in a highly competitive business. as with the company's staffing services business, the barriers to entry are quite low. there are many competitors, some of which have greater resources than protiviti and many 7 of which have been in operation far longer than protiviti . in particular, protiviti faces competition from the big four accounting firms, which have been in operation for a considerable period of time and have established reputations and client bases. because the principal factors upon which competition is based are reputation, technology, tools, project methodologies, price of services and depth of skills of personnel, there can be no assurance that protiviti will be successful in attracting and retaining clients or be able to maintain the technology, personnel and other requirements to successfully compete. protiviti's operations could subject it to liability. the business of protiviti consists of providing business consulting and internal audit services. liability could be incurred or litigation could be instituted against the company or protiviti for claims related to these activities or to prior transactions or activities. there can be no assurance that such liability or litigation will not have a material adverse impact on protiviti or the company. "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for further discussion of the impact of foreign currency exchange rates on the company's results of operations and financial condition. years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015 revenues. the company's revenues were $5.25 billion for the year ended december 31, 2016 , increasing by 3.1% compared to $5.09 billion for the year ended december 31, 2015 . revenues from foreign operations represented 20% and 19% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. the company analyzes its revenues for three reportable segments: temporary and consultant staffing, permanent placement staffing and risk consulting and internal audit services. in 2016 , revenues for temporary and consultant staffing and risk consulting and internal audit services were up and revenue for permanent placement staffing was down compared to 2015 . revenue growth was strongest internationally, most notably within europe. risk consulting and internal audit services continued to post strong growth rates. contributing factors for each reportable segment are discussed below in further detail. temporary and consultant staffing revenues were $4.03 billion for the year ended december 31, 2016 , increasing by 2.4% compared to revenues of $3.93 billion for the year ended december 31, 2015 . key drivers of temporary and consultant staffing revenues include average hourly bill rates and the number of hours worked by the company's temporary employees on client engagements. on a same-day, constant-currency basis, temporary and consultant staffing revenues increased 2.8% for 2016 , compared to 2015 , due primarily to a 4.2% increase in average bill rates, partially offset by fewer hours worked by the company's temporary employees. in the u.s., 2016 revenues increased 2.0% on an as reported basis and 1.9% on a same-day basis, compared to 2015 . for the company's international operations, 2016 revenues increased 4.2% on an as reported basis and 6.9% on a same-day, constant-currency basis, compared to 2015 . permanent placement staffing revenues were $419 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 , decreasing by 0.5% compared to revenues of $421 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 . key drivers of permanent placement staffing revenues consist of the number of candidate placements and average fees earned per placement. on a same-day, constant-currency basis, permanent placement revenues increased 0.3% for 2016 compared to 2015 . the decrease in as reported revenue was driven primarily by a decrease in number of placements, partially offset by an increase in average fees earned per placement. in the u.s., 2016 revenues increased 0.3% on an as reported basis and 0.1% on a same-day basis, compared to 2015 . for the company's international operations, 2016 revenues decreased 2.3% on an as reported basis, and on a same-day, constant-currency basis increased 0.6% , compared to 2015 . historically, demand for permanent placement services is even 17 more sensitive to economic and labor market conditions than demand for temporary and consulting staffing and this is expected to continue. risk consulting and internal audit services revenues were $804 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 , increasing by 8.3% compared to revenues of $743 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 . key drivers of risk consulting and internal audit services revenues are the billable hours worked by consultants on client engagements and average hourly bill rates. on a same-day, constant-currency basis, risk consulting and internal audit services revenues increased 8.5% for 2016 compared to 2015 , due primarily to an increase in number of hours worked, partially offset by a decrease in average hourly bill rates. in the u.s., 2016 revenues increased 8.0% on an as reported basis, or 7.9% on a same-day basis, compared to 2015 . for the company's international operations, 2016 revenues increased 9.6% on an as reported basis and 11.7% on a same-day, constant-currency basis, compared to 2015 . a reconciliation of the non-gaap year-over-year revenue growth rates to the as reported year-over-year revenue growth rates for the year ended december 31, 2016 , is presented in the following table: global united states international temporary and consultant staffing as reported 2.4 % 2.0 % 4.2 % billing days impact -0.1 % -0.1 % -0.1 % currency impact 0.5 % 2.8 % same billing days and constant currency 2.8 % 1.9 % 6.9 % permanent placement staffing as reported -0.5 % 0.3 % -2.3 % billing days impact -0.1 % -0.2 % -0.1 % currency impact 0.9 % 3.0 % same billing days and constant currency 0.3 % 0.1 % 0.6 % risk consulting and internal audit services as reported 8.3 % 8.0 % 9.6 % billing days impact -0.2 % -0.1 % -0.2 % currency impact 0.4 % 2.3 % same billing days and constant currency 8.5 % 7.9 % 11.7 % gross margin . the company's gross margin dollars were $2.16 billion for the year ended december 31, 2016 , up 2.2% from $2.11 billion for the year ended december 31, 2015 . contributing factors for each reportable segment are discussed below in further detail. gross margin dollars from the company's temporary and consultant staffing represent revenues less direct costs of services, which consist of payroll, payroll taxes and benefit costs for temporary employees, and reimbursable expenses. the key drivers of gross margin are: i) pay/bill spreads, which represent the differential between wages paid to temporary employees and amounts billed to clients; ii) fringe costs, which are primarily composed of payroll taxes and benefit costs for temporary and consultant staffing employees; and iii) conversion revenues, which are earned when a temporary position converts to a permanent position with the company's client. gross margin dollars for the company's temporary and consultant staffing division were $1.51 billion for the year ended december 31, 2016 , up 3.2% from $1.46 billion for the year ended december 31, 2015 . as a percentage of revenues, gross margin dollars for temporary and consultant staffing were 37.5% in 2016 , up from 37.2% in 2015 . this year-over-year improvement in gross margin percentage of 0.3% was primarily attributable to higher pay/bill spreads and lower payroll taxes and workers compensation costs, partially offset by lower conversion revenues as a percentage of applicable revenue in 2016 compared to 2015 . gross margin dollars from permanent placement staffing represent revenues less reimbursable expenses. gross margin dollars for the company's permanent placement staffing division were $419 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 , down 0.5% from $421 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 . because reimbursable expenses for permanent placement staffing services are de minimis, the decrease in gross margin dollars is substantially explained by the decrease in revenues previously discussed. gross margin dollars for risk consulting and internal audit services represent revenues less direct costs of services, which consist primarily of professional staff payroll, payroll taxes, benefit costs and reimbursable expenses. the primary drivers of 18 risk consulting and internal audit services gross margin are: i) the relative composition of and number of professional staff and their respective pay and bill rates; and ii) staff utilization, which is the relationship of time spent on client engagements in proportion to the total time available for the company's risk consulting and internal audit services staff. gross margin dollars for the company's risk consulting and internal audit division were $231 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 , up 0.4% from $230 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 . as a percentage of revenues, gross margin dollars for risk consulting and internal audit services were 28.7% in 2016 , down from 31.0% in 2015 . the decline in 2016 gross margin percentage compared to 2015 was due to lower staff utilization rates and the mix impact of lower financial services and regulatory compliance revenues, which is typically a higher margin business for the company. selling, general and administrative expenses . the company's selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of staff compensation, advertising, depreciation and occupancy costs. the company's selling, general and administrative expenses were $1.61 billion for the year ended december 31, 2016 , up 4.7% from $1.53 billion for the year ended december 31, 2015 . as a percentage of revenues, the company's selling, general and administrative expenses were 30.6% for 2016 , up from 30.1% for 2015 . contributing factors for each reportable segment are discussed below in further detail. selling, general and administrative expenses for the company's temporary and consultant staffing division were $1.12 billion for the year ended december 31, 2016 , up 5.0% from $1.06 billion for the year ended december 31, 2015 . as a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses for temporary and consultant staffing were 27.7% in 2016 , up from 27.1% in 2015 . for 2016 compared to 2015 , the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue is primarily due to increases in staff compensation costs, inclusive of employee medical costs, and variable overhead, including costs related to the company's new crm and project management systems. selling, general and administrative expenses for the company's permanent placement staffing division were $339 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 , up 0.8% from $336 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 . as a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses for permanent placement staffing services were 80.7% in 2016 , up from 79.7% in 2015 . for 2016 compared to 2015 , the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue is primarily due to increases in staff compensation costs, inclusive of employee medical costs. selling, general and administrative expenses for the company's risk consulting and internal audit services division were $150 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 , up 11.9% from $134 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 . as a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses for risk consulting and internal audit services were 18.7% in 2016 , up from 18.1% in 2015 . for 2016 compared to 2015 , the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue is primarily due to an increase in administrative compensation and fixed overhead. operating income . the company's total operating income was $555 million , or 10.6% of revenues, for the year ended december 31, 2016 , down 4.5% from $581 million , or 11.4% of revenues, for the year ended december 31, 2015 . for the company's temporary and consultant staffing division, operating income was $394 million , or 9.8% of applicable revenues, down 1.5% from $400 million , or 10.2% of applicable revenues, in 2015 . for the company's permanent placement staffing division, operating income was $80 million , or 19.1% of applicable revenues, down 5.9% from operating income of $85 million , or 20.2% of applicable revenues, in 2015 . for the company's risk consulting and internal audit services division, operating income was $81 million , or 10.0% of applicable revenues, down 15.7% from operating income of $96 million , or 12.9% of applicable revenues, in 2015 . provision for income taxes. the provision for income taxes was 38.0% and 38.4% for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. the decrease is primarily due to an increase of federal and state credits in the u.s, and benefit of foreign losses. 19 years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014 revenues. the company's revenues were $5.09 billion for the year ended december 31, 2015, increasing by 8.5% compared to $4.70 billion for the year ended december 31, 2014. revenues from foreign operations represented 19% and 23% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. the company analyzes its revenues for three reportable segments: temporary and consultant staffing, permanent placement staffing and risk consulting and internal audit services. in 2015, revenues for all three of the company's reportable segments were up compared to 2014. results were strongest domestically with demand also improving in several other countries, most notably within europe. risk consulting and internal audit services continued to post strong growth rates. contributing factors for each reportable segment are discussed below in further detail. temporary and consultant staffing revenues were $3.93 billion for the year ended december 31, 2015, increasing by 6.9% compared to revenues of $3.68 billion for the year ended december 31, 2014. key drivers of temporary and consultant staffing revenues include average hourly bill rates and the number of hours worked by the company's temporary employees on client engagements. on a same-day, constant-currency basis, temporary and consultant staffing revenues increased 10.3% for 2015, compared to 2014, due primarily to an increase in temporary hours worked by the company's temporary employees and inclusive of a 4.5% increase in average bill rates. in the u.s., 2015 revenues increased 11.5% on an as reported basis and 11.4% on a same-day basis, compared to 2014. for the company's international operations, 2015 revenues decreased 8.9% on an as reported basis and increased 6.4% on a same-day, constant-currency basis, compared to 2014. permanent placement staffing revenues were $421 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, increasing by 6.8% compared to revenues of $395 million for the year ended december 31, 2014. key drivers of permanent placement staffing revenues consist of the number of candidate placements and average fees earned per placement. on a same-day, constant-currency basis, permanent placement revenues increased 11.7% for 2015 compared to 2014. in the u.s., 2015 revenues increased 15.5% on an as reported basis and 15.4% on a same-day basis, compared to 2014. for the company's international operations, 2015 revenues decreased 9.3% on an as reported basis, and on a same-day, constant-currency basis increased 4.9%, compared to 2014, driven primarily by an increase in number of placements. historically, demand for permanent placement services is even more sensitive to economic and labor market conditions than demand for temporary and consulting staffing and this is expected to continue. risk consulting and internal audit services revenues were $743 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, increasing by 19.0% compared to revenues of $624 million for the year ended december 31, 2014. key drivers of risk consulting and internal audit services revenues are the billable hours worked by consultants on client engagements and average hourly bill rates. on a same-day, constant-currency basis, risk consulting and internal audit services revenues increased 21.8% for 2015 compared to 2014, due primarily to an increase in billable hours worked. in the u.s., 2015 revenues increased 22.3% on an as reported basis, or 22.5% on a same-day basis, compared to 2014. for the company's international operations, 2015 revenues increased 4.0% on an as reported basis, and on a same-day, constant-currency basis increased 18.7%, compared to 2014. 20 a reconciliation of the non-gaap year-over-year revenue growth rates to the as reported year-over-year revenue growth rates for the year ended december 31, 2015, is presented in the following table: global united states international temporary and consultant staffing as reported 6.9 % 11.5 % -8.9 % billing days impact 0.0 % -0.1 % -0.1 % currency impact 3.4 % 15.4 % same billing days and constant currency 10.3 % 11.4 % 6.4 % permanent placement staffing as reported 6.8 % 15.5 % -9.3 % billing days impact -0.1 % -0.1 % 0.0 % currency impact 5.0 % 14.2 % same billing days and constant currency 11.7 % 15.4 % 4.9 % risk consulting and internal audit services as reported 19.0 % 22.3 % 4.0 % billing days impact 0.1 % 0.2 % 0.2 % currency impact 2.7 % 14.5 % same billing days and constant currency 21.8 % 22.5 % 18.7 % gross margin . the company's gross margin dollars were $2.11 billion for the year ended december 31, 2015, up 10.0% from $1.92 billion for the year ended december 31, 2014. for 2015 compared to 2014, gross margin dollars for all three of the company's reportable segments increased. gross margin dollars as a percentage of revenues increased for both the company's temporary and consultant staffing segment and the risk consulting and internal audit services segment on a year-over-year basis. contributing factors for each reportable segment are discussed below in further detail. gross margin dollars from the company's temporary and consultant staffing represent revenues less direct costs of services, which consist of payroll, payroll taxes and benefit costs for temporary employees, and reimbursable expenses. the key drivers of gross margin are: i) pay/bill spreads, which represent the differential between wages paid to temporary employees and amounts billed to clients; ii) fringe costs, which are primarily composed of payroll taxes and benefit costs for temporary and consultant staffing employees; and iii) conversion revenues, which are earned when a temporary position converts to a permanent position with the company's client. gross margin dollars for the company's temporary and consultant staffing division were $1.46 billion for the year ended december 31, 2015, up 8.8% from $1.35 billion for the year ended december 31, 2014. as a percentage of revenues, gross margin dollars for temporary and consultant staffing were 37.2% in 2015, up from 36.6% in 2014. this year-over-year improvement in gross margin percentage of 0.6% was primarily attributable to higher pay/bill spreads and lower fringe costs driven by lower state unemployment insurance expenses in 2015 compared to 2014. gross margin dollars from permanent placement staffing services represent revenues less reimbursable expenses. gross margin dollars for the company's permanent placement staffing division were $421 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, up 6.7% from $394 million for the year ended december 31, 2014. because reimbursable expenses for permanent placement staffing services are de minimis, the increase in gross margin dollars is substantially explained by the increase in revenues previously discussed. gross margin dollars for risk consulting and internal audit services represent revenues less direct costs of services, which consist primarily of professional staff payroll, payroll taxes, benefit costs and reimbursable expenses. the primary drivers of risk consulting and internal audit services gross margin are: i) the relative composition of and number of professional staff and their respective pay and bill rates; and ii) staff utilization, which is the relationship of time spent on client engagements in proportion to the total time available for the company's risk consulting and internal audit services staff. gross margin dollars for the company's risk consulting and internal audit division were $230 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, up 25.6% from $183 million for the year ended december 31, 2014. as a percentage of revenues, gross margin dollars for risk consulting and internal audit services were 31.0% in 2015, up from 29.4% in 2014. the improvement in 2015 compared to 2014 was due to a better alignment of the mix of professional staff relative to client demand. 21 selling, general and administrative expenses . the company's selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of staff compensation, advertising, depreciation and occupancy costs. the company's selling, general and administrative expenses were $1.53 billion for the year ended december 31, 2015, up 7.6% from $1.43 billion for the year ended december 31, 2014. as a percentage of revenues, the company's selling, general and administrative expenses were 30.1% for 2015, down from 30.4% for 2014. in 2015, selling, general and administrative expenses increased for all three of the company's reportable segments compared to 2014. as percentage of revenue, selling, general and administrative expenses for the company's permanent placement staffing and risk consulting and internal audit services divisions decreased in 2015 compared to 2014, however for the temporary and consulting staffing division, selling, general and administrative expenses increased as a percentage of revenue. contributing factors for each reportable segment are discussed below in further detail. selling, general and administrative expenses for the company's temporary and consultant staffing division were $1.06 billion for the year ended december 31, 2015, up 7.8% from $987 million for the year ended december 31, 2014. as a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses for temporary and consultant staffing were 27.1% in 2015, up from 26.8% in 2014. for 2015 compared to 2014, the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue is primarily due to an increase in field compensation expense and variable overhead, partially offset by a decrease in administrative compensation and fixed overhead. selling, general and administrative expenses for the company's permanent placement staffing division were $336 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, up 6.2% from $316 million for the year ended december 31, 2014. as a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses for permanent placement staffing services were 79.7% in 2015, down from 80.1% in 2014. for 2015 compared to 2014, decreases in fixed overhead and variable overhead, partially offset by an increase in field compensation drove the overall decrease as a percentage of revenues. selling, general and administrative expenses for the company's risk consulting and internal audit services division were $134 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, up 9.3% from $123 million for the year ended december 31, 2014. as a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses for risk consulting and internal audit services were 18.1% in 2015, down from 19.7% in 2014. for 2015 compared to 2014, improved leverage of general and administrative expenses, as a result of higher revenue, drove the overall decrease as a percentage of revenues. operating income . the company's total operating income was $581 million, or 11.4% of revenues, for the year ended december 31, 2015, up 16.8% from $497 million, or 10.6% of revenues, for the year ended december 31, 2014. for the company's temporary and consultant staffing division, operating income was $400 million, or 10.2% of applicable revenues, up 11.5% from $359 million, or 9.8% of applicable revenues, in 2014. for the company's permanent placement staffing division, operating income was $85 million, or 20.2% of applicable revenues, up 8.5% from operating income of $78 million, or 19.9% of applicable revenues, in 2014. for the company's risk consulting and internal audit services division, operating income was $96 million, or 12.9% of applicable revenues, up 58.9% from operating income of $60 million, or 9.7% of applicable revenues, in 2014. provision for income taxes. the provision for income taxes was relatively consistent at 38.4% and 38.5% for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. liquidity and capital resources the change in the company's liquidity during the years ended december 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , is primarily the net effect of funds generated by operations and the funds used for capital expenditures, repurchases of common stock and payment of dividends. cash and cash equivalents were $260 million , $225 million , and $287 million at december 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. operating activities provided $442 million during the year ended december 31, 2016 , offset by $112 million and $288 million of net cash used in investing activities and financing activities, respectively. operating activities provided $438 million during the year ended december 31, 2015 , offset by $118 million and $369 million of net cash used in investing activities and financing activities, respectively. operating activities provided $341 million during the year ended december 31, 2014 , offset by $89 million and $230 million of net cash used in investing activities and financing activities, respectively. operating activities net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2016 , was $442 million . this was composed of net income of $343 million adjusted upward for non-cash items of $113 million , offset by net cash used in changes in working capital of $14 million . net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2015 , was composed of net income of $358 million adjusted upward for non-cash items of $89 million , offset by net cash used in changes in working capital of $9 million . net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2014 , was 22 composed of net income of $306 million adjusted upward for non-cash items of $90 million, offset by net cash used in changes in working capital of $55 million. investing activities cash used in investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2016 , was $112 million . this was composed of capital expenditures of $83 million , deposits to trusts for employee deferred compensation plans of $27 million , and payments for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, of $2 million . cash used in investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2015 , was $118 million . this was primarily composed of capital expenditures of $75 million and deposits to trusts for employee deferred compensation plans of $28 million , and payment for an acquisition, net of cash acquired, of $15 million . cash used in investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2014 , was $89 million. this was primarily composed of capital expenditures of $63 million and deposits to trusts for employee deferred compensation plans of $26 million. financing activities cash used in financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2016 , was $288 million . this included repurchases of $176 million in common stock and $114 million in cash dividends to stockholders, offset by the excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $2 million . cash used in financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2015 , was $369 million . this included repurchases of $271 million in common stock and $108 million in cash dividends to stockholders, offset by the proceeds of $2 million from exercises of stock options and the excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $9 million . cash used in financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2014 , was $230 million. this included repurchases of $154 million in common stock, $97 million in cash dividends to stockholders, offset by proceeds of $14 million from exercises of stock options and the excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $7 million. as of december 31, 2016 , the company is authorized to repurchase, from time to time, up to 6.4 million additional shares of the company's common stock on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, depending on market conditions. during the years ended december 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , the company repurchased approximately 4.0 million shares, 4.3 million shares and 3.3 million shares of common stock on the open market for a total cost of $164 million, $228 million and $162 million, respectively. additional stock repurchases were made in connection with employee stock plans, whereby company shares were tendered by employees for the payment of exercise price and applicable statutory withholding taxes. during the years ended december 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , such repurchases totaled approximately 0.4 million shares, 0.5 million shares and 0.5 million shares at a cost of $15 million, $25 million and $22 million, respectively. repurchases of shares have been funded with cash generated from operations. the company's working capital at december 31, 2016 , included $260 million in cash and cash equivalents. the company expects that internally generated cash will be sufficient to support the working capital needs of the company, the company's fixed payments, dividends, and other obligations on both a short-term and long-term basis. on february 8, 2017, the company announced a quarterly dividend of $.24 per share to be paid to all shareholders of record on february 24, 2017. the dividend will be paid on march 15, 2017. the company's cash flows generated from operations are also the primary source for funding various contractual obligations. the table below summarizes the company's major commitments as of december 31, 2016 (in thousands): payments due by period contractual obligations 2017 2018 and 2019 2020 and 2021 thereafter total long-term debt obligations $ 252 $ 505 $ 505 $ $ 1,262 operating lease obligations 85,143 126,554 81,304 66,939 359,940 purchase obligations 52,920 19,936 111 72,967 other liabilities 1,251 1,539 1,402 5,866 10,058 total $ 139,566 $ 148,534 $ 83,322 $ 72,805 $ 444,227 long-term debt obligations consist of promissory notes and related interest as well as other forms of indebtedness issued in connection with certain acquisitions and other payment obligations. operating lease obligations consist of minimum rental commitments for 2017 and thereafter under non-cancelable leases in effect at december 31, 2016 . purchase obligations consist of purchase commitments primarily related to telecom service agreements, software subscriptions, and computer hardware and software maintenance agreements. other liabilities consist of asset retirement and deferred compensation obligations. 23 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk because a portion of the company's net revenues are derived from its operations outside the u.s. and are denominated in local currencies, the company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations. the company's exposure to foreign currency exchange rates relates primarily to the company's foreign subsidiaries. exchange rates impact the u.s. dollar value of the company's reported revenues, expenses, earnings, assets and liabilities. for the year ended december 31, 2016 , approximately 20% of the company's revenues were generated outside of the united states. these operations transact business in their functional currency, which is the same as their local currency. as a result, fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar, particularly the canadian dollar, british pound, euro, and australian dollar have an impact on the company's reported results. under gaap, revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into u.s. dollars at the monthly average exchange rates prevailing during the period. consequently, as the value of the u.s. dollar changes relative to the currencies of the company's non-u.s. markets, the company's reported results vary. during 2016 , the u.s. dollar fluctuated, but generally strengthened, against the primary currencies in which the company conducts business. currency exchange rates had the effect of decreasing reported net service revenues by $27 million, or 0.5%, in 2016 compared to prior year. the general strengthening of the u.s. dollar also affected the reported level of expenses incurred in the company's foreign operations. because substantially all of the company's foreign operations generated revenues and incurred expenses within the same country and currency, the favorable effect of lower reported operating expenses largely offset the decline in reported revenues. reported net income was $0.5 million, or 0.2%, lower in the year ended december 31, 2016 compared to prior year due to the effect of currency exchange rates. for the month ended january 31, 2017 , the u.s. dollar weakened against the euro, british pound, canadian dollar, and australian dollar. if currency exchange rates were to remain at january 2017 levels throughout 2017 , the company's 2017 full-year reported revenues would be impacted favorably, mostly offset by an unfavorable impact to operating expenses. thus, the impact to reported net income would likely be immaterial. fluctuations in currency exchange rates impact the u.s. dollar amount of the company's stockholders' equity. the assets and liabilities of the company's non-u.s. subsidiaries are translated into u.s. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at period end. the resulting translation adjustments are recorded in stockholders' equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. although currency fluctuations impact the company's reported results and shareholders' equity, such fluctuations generally do not affect cash flow or result in actual economic gains or losses. the company generally has few cross-border transfers of funds, except for transfers to the u.s. for payment of intercompany loans, working capital loans made between the u.s. and the company's foreign subsidiaries, and dividends from the company's foreign subsidiaries. 24risk factors the company's business prospects are subject to various risks and uncertainties that impact its business. the most important of these risks and uncertainties are as follows: any reduction in global economic activity may harm the company's business and financial condition. the demand for the company's services, in particular its staffing services, is highly dependent upon the state of the economy and upon the staffing needs of the company's clients. certain of the company's markets have recently experienced prolonged economic downturns characterized by high unemployment, limited availability of credit and decreased consumer and business spending. in addition, certain geopolitical events, including the ongoing negotiation of the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union ( brexit ), have caused significant economic, market, political and regulatory uncertainty in some of the company's markets. any decline in the economic condition or employment levels of the u.s. or of any of the foreign countries in which the company does business, or in the economic condition of any region of any of the foregoing, or in any specific industry may severely reduce the demand for the company's services and thereby significantly decrease the company's revenues and profits. further, continued or intensifying economic, political or regulatory uncertainty in the company's markets could reduce demand for the company's services. the company's business depends on a strong reputation and anything that harms its reputation will likely harm its results. as a provider of temporary and permanent staffing solutions as well as consultant services, the company's reputation is dependent upon the performance of the employees it places with its clients and the services rendered by its consultants. the company depends on its reputation and name recognition to secure engagements and to hire qualified employees and consultants. if the company's clients become dissatisfied with the performance of those employees or consultants or if any of those employees or consultants engage in or are believed to have engaged in conduct that is harmful to the company's clients, the company's ability to maintain or expand its client base may be harmed. the company and certain subsidiaries are defendants in several lawsuits that could cause the company to incur substantial liabilities . the company and certain subsidiaries are defendants in several actual or asserted class and representative action lawsuits brought by or on behalf of the company's current and former employees alleging violations of federal and state law with respect to certain wage and hour related matters, as well as claims challenging the company's compliance with the fair credit reporting act. the various claims made in one or more of such lawsuits include, among other things, the misclassification of certain employees as exempt employees under applicable law, failure to comply with wage statement requirements, failure to compensate certain employees for time spent performing activities related to the interviewing process, and other related wage and hour violations. such suits seek, as applicable, unspecified amounts for unpaid overtime compensation, penalties, and other damages, as well as attorneys' fees. it is not possible to predict the outcome of these lawsuits. however, these lawsuits may consume substantial amounts of the company's financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the lawsuits. in addition, the company and its subsidiaries may become subject to similar lawsuits in the same or other jurisdictions, or to various other claims, disputes, and legal or regulatory proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. an unfavorable outcome with respect to these lawsuits and any future lawsuits or regulatory proceedings could, individually or in the aggregate, cause the company to incur 4 substantial liabilities or impact its operations in such a way that may have a material adverse effect upon the company's business, financial condition or results of operations. furthermore, any future lawsuits, claims, disputes, or legal or regulatory proceedings may also consume substantial amounts of the company's financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, regardless of the ultimate outcome. in addition, an unfavorable outcome in one or more of these cases could cause the company to change its compensation plans for its employees, which could have a material adverse effect upon the company's business. the company faces risks in operating internationally. the company depends on operations in international markets, including europe, for a significant portion of its business. in the past several years, the european market experienced economic uncertainty, which adversely affected, and the return of which may in the future adversely affect, the company's operations in europe. in particular, brexit has contributed to, and may continue to contribute to, european economic, market and regulatory uncertainty and could adversely affect european or worldwide economic, market, regulatory, or political conditions. to the extent that adverse economic conditions and uncertainty in europe (related to brexit or otherwise) worsen, demand for the company's services may decline, which could significantly harm its business and results of operations. in addition, these international operations are subject to a number of risks, including general political and economic conditions in those foreign countries, the burden of complying with various foreign laws and technical standards and unpredictable changes in foreign regulations, u.s. legal requirements governing u.s. companies operating in foreign countries, legal and cultural differences in the conduct of business, potential adverse tax consequences and difficulty in staffing and managing international operations. in addition, the company's business may be affected by foreign currency exchange fluctuations. in particular, the company is subject to risk in translating its results in foreign currencies into the u.s. dollar. if the value of the u.s. dollar strengthens relative to other currencies, the company's reported income from these operations could decrease. the value of the u.s. dollar has recently strengthened considerably against a number of major foreign currencies, and a continuation or extension of this strength relative to these other currencies could adversely impact the company's reported income from its international markets and cause its revenue in such markets, when translated into u.s. dollars, to decline. the company could also be exposed to fines and penalties under u.s. or local jurisdiction trade sanctions and controls as well as laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials. although the company has implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, it cannot be sure that its employees, contractors or agents will not violate such policies. any such violations could materially damage the company's reputation, brand, business and operating results. further, changes in u.s. laws and policies governing foreign trade or investment and use of foreign operations or workers, and any negative sentiments towards the united states as a result of such changes, could adversely affect the company's operations. government regulations may result in prohibition or restriction of certain types of employment services or the imposition of additional licensing or tax requirements that may reduce the company's future earnings. in many jurisdictions in which the company operates, the employment services industry is heavily regulated. for example, governmental regulations in some countries restrict the length of contracts and the industries in which the company's employees may be used. in other countries, special taxes, fees or costs are imposed in connection with the use of its employees. additionally, trade unions in some countries have used the political process to target the industry, in an effort to increase the regulatory burden and expense associated with offering or utilizing temporary staffing solutions. the countries in which we operate may, among other things: create additional regulations that prohibit or restrict the types of employment services that the company currently provides; require new or additional benefits be paid to the company's employees; require the company to obtain additional licensing to provide employment services; or increase taxes, such as sales or value-added taxes, payable by the providers of temporary workers. any future regulations may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and financial results because they may make it more difficult or expensive for the company to continue to provide employment services. additionally, as the company expands existing service offerings, adds new service offerings, or enters new markets, it may become subject to additional restrictions and regulations which may impede its business, increase costs and impact profitability. the company may be unable to find sufficient candidates for its staffing business. the company's staffing services business consists of the placement of individuals seeking employment. there can be no assurance that candidates for employment will continue to seek employment through the company. candidates generally seek temporary or regular positions through multiple sources, including the company and its competitors. unemployment in the united states has been low in the past couple of years and has recently decreased further; some economists have speculated that in certain markets, the u.s. could be at or near full employment. this phenomenon has made finding sufficient eligible candidates to meet employers' 5 demands more challenging and further increases in the employment rates could compound these difficulties. any shortage of candidates could materially adversely affect the company. the company operates in a highly competitive business and may be unable to retain clients or market share. the staffing services business is highly competitive and, because it is a service business, the barriers to entry are quite low. there are many competitors, some of which have greater resources than the company, and new competitors are entering the market all the time. in addition, long-term contracts form a negligible portion of the company's revenue. therefore, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to retain clients or market share in the future. nor can there be any assurance that the company will, in light of competitive pressures, be able to remain profitable or, if profitable, maintain its current profit margins. the company may incur potential liability to employees and clients. the company's temporary services business entails employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients' workplaces. the company's ability to control the workplace environment is limited. as the employer of record of its temporary employees, the company incurs a risk of liability to its temporary employees for various workplace events, including claims of physical injury, discrimination, harassment or failure to protect confidential personal information. while such claims have not historically had a material adverse effect upon the company, there can be no assurance that such claims in the future will not result in adverse publicity or have a material adverse effect upon the company. the company also incurs a risk of liability to its clients resulting from allegations of errors, omissions or theft by its temporary employees, or allegations of misuse of client confidential information. in many cases, the company has agreed to indemnify its clients in respect of these types of claims. the company maintains insurance with respect to many of such claims. while such claims have not historically had a material adverse effect upon the company, there can be no assurance that the company will continue to be able to obtain insurance at a cost that does not have a material adverse effect upon the company or that such claims (whether by reason of the company not having sufficient insurance or by reason of such claims being outside the scope of the company's insurance) will not have a material adverse effect upon the company. the company is dependent on its management personnel and employees and a failure to attract and retain such personnel could harm its business. the company is engaged in the services business. as such, its success or failure is highly dependent upon the performance of its management personnel and employees, rather than upon technology or upon tangible assets (of which the company has few). there can be no assurance that the company will be able to attract and retain the personnel that are essential to its success. the company's business is subject to extensive government regulation and a failure to comply with regulations could harm its business. the company's business is subject to regulation or licensing in many states in the u.s. and in certain foreign countries. while the company has had no material difficulty complying with regulations in the past, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to continue to obtain all necessary licenses or approvals or that the cost of compliance will not prove to be material. any inability of the company to comply with government regulation or licensing requirements could materially adversely affect the company. further, changes to existing regulation or licensing requirements could impose additional costs and other burdens or limitations on the company's operations. in addition, the company's temporary services business entails employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients' workplaces. increased government regulation of the workplace or of the employer-employee relationship, or judicial or administrative proceedings related to such regulation, could materially adversely affect the company. in addition, to the extent that government regulation imposes increased costs upon the company, such as unemployment insurance taxes, there can be no assurance that such costs will not adversely impact the company's profit margins. further, lawsuits or other proceedings related to the company's compliance with government regulations or licensing requirements could materially adversely affect the company. for example, the company is currently named as a defendant in litigation challenging its compliance with the fair credit reporting act. it is not possible to predict the outcome of such litigation; however, such litigation or any future lawsuits or proceedings related to the company's compliance with government regulation or licensing requirements could consume substantial amounts of the company's financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, regardless of the ultimate outcome of any such lawsuits or other proceedings. an unfavorable outcome with respect to such litigation or any future lawsuits or proceedings could, individually or in the aggregate, cause the company to incur substantial liabilities that may have a material adverse effect upon the company's business, financial condition or results of operations. health care reform could increase the costs of the company's temporary staffing operations . in march 2010, the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (the ppaca ) was signed into law in the united states. in 2015, the company redesigned its employee benefits to offer health insurance coverage to its temporary candidates in order to meet the requirements of the ppaca's employer mandate. it is likely that president trump and the u.s. congress will continue to seek to modify, repeal, or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the ppaca. president trump has issued multiple executive orders in support of repealing the ppaca, 6 in whole or in part, and the u.s. congress has made several attempts to repeal or modify the ppaca. it is unclear at this point what the scope of any future such legislation will be and when it will become effective. because of the uncertainty surrounding this replacement health care reform legislation, we cannot predict with any certainty the likely impact of the ppaca's repeal or the adoption of any other health care reform legislation on the company's financial condition or operating results. whether or not there is alternative health care legislation enacted in the u.s., there is likely to be significant disruption to the health care market in the coming months and years and the costs of the company's health care expenditures may increase. the company's computer and communications hardware and software systems are vulnerable to damage and interruption. the company's ability to manage its operations successfully is critical to its success and largely depends upon the efficient and uninterrupted operation of its computer and communications hardware and software systems, some of which are managed by third-party vendors. the company's primary computer systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events and errors in usage by the company's employees and those of the company's vendors. in particular, the company's employees or vendors may have access or exposure to personally identifiable or otherwise confidential information and customer data and systems, the misuse of which could result in legal liability. cyber-attacks, including attacks motivated by grievances against the business services industry in general or against the company in particular, may disable or damage its systems. it is possible that the company's security controls or those of its third-party vendors over personal and other data and other practices it follows may not prevent the improper access to or disclosure of personally identifiable or otherwise confidential information. such disclosure or damage to the company's systems could harm its reputation and subject it to government sanctions and liability under its contracts and laws that protect personal data and confidential information, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. the potential risk of security breaches and cyber-attacks may increase as the company introduces new service offerings. changes in data privacy and protection laws and regulations in respect of control of personal information could increase the company's costs or otherwise adversely impact its operations. in the ordinary course of business, the company collects, uses, and retains personal information from its employees, employment candidates, and contractors, including, without limitation, full names, government-issued identification numbers, addresses, birth dates, and payroll-related information. the possession and use of personal information in conducting the company's business subjects it to a variety of complex and evolving domestic and foreign laws and regulations regarding data privacy, protection and security, which, in many cases, apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information among the company and its subsidiaries. for example, the european union's general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which becomes effective in may 2018, will impose more stringent operational requirements for entities processing personal information, such as stronger safeguards for data transfers to countries outside the european union and stronger enforcement authorities and mechanisms. complying with the enhanced obligations imposed by the gdpr and other current and future laws and regulations relating to data transfer, residency, privacy and protection may increase the company's operating costs and require significant management time and attention, while any failure by the company or its subsidiaries to comply with applicable laws could result in governmental enforcement actions, fines, and other penalties that could potentially have an adverse effect on the company's operations and reputation. failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in the company's financial reporting. failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in the company's financial reporting. if the company's management is unable to certify the effectiveness of its internal controls or if its independent registered public accounting firm cannot render an opinion on the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting, or if material weaknesses in the company's internal controls are identified, the company could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence. in addition, if the company does not maintain adequate financial and management personnel, processes and controls, it may not be able to accurately report its financial performance on a timely basis, which could cause its stock price to fall. the company's results of operations and ability to grow could be materially negatively affected if it cannot successfully keep pace with technological changes in the development and implementation of its services. the company's success depends on its ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes in the development and implementation of its services. the company's business is reliant on a variety of technologies, including those which support hiring and tracking, order management, billing, and client data analytics. if the company does not sufficiently invest in new technology and industry developments, appropriately implement new technologies, or evolve its business at sufficient speed and scale in response to such developments, or if it does not make the right strategic investments to respond to these developments, the company's services, results of operations, and ability to develop and maintain its business could be negatively affected. the demand for the company's services related to sarbanes-oxley or other regulatory compliance may decline. the operations of both the staffing services business and protiviti include services related to sarbanes-oxley and other regulatory compliance. there can be no assurance that there will be ongoing demand for these services. for example, the jumpstart our 7 business startup ( jobs ) act signed into law in april of 2012 allows most companies going public in the u.s. to defer implementation of some of the provisions of sarbanes-oxley for up to five years after their initial public offering. similarly there are a number of proposals currently being considered by the u.s. congress to further delay or, in some cases, remove the requirements of sarbanes-oxley for a number of public companies. further, many analysts are expecting the u.s. congress and president trump to seek to repeal or modify legislation that is viewed as having over-regulated certain sectors of the u.s. economy and decreased the incentive for u.s. companies to go public and their ability to effectively compete with foreign competition. these or other similar modifications of the regulatory requirements could decrease demand for protiviti's services. long-term contracts do not comprise a significant portion of the company's revenue. because long-term contracts are not a significant part of the company's staffing services business, future results cannot be reliably predicted by considering past trends or extrapolating past results. additionally, the company's clients will frequently enter into non-exclusive arrangements with several firms, which the client is generally able to terminate on short notice and without penalty. the nature of these arrangements further exacerbates the difficulty in predicting our future results. u.s. federal tax regulations and interpretations could adversely affect the company. on december 22, 2017, the tax cuts and jobs act (the tcja ) was signed into law. the tcja resulted in a revaluation of the company's estimated deferred income tax net assets and a resulting one-time non-cash charge to its provision for income taxes in an amount of $34 million, or $.27 per share, in the fourth quarter of 2017. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and the company's consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto contained in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. in addition, the tcja contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including the reduction of the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% beginning in 2018, limitation for net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income and elimination of net operating loss carrybacks, one time taxation of offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated, elimination of u.s. tax on foreign earnings (subject to certain important exceptions), and modifying or repealing many business deductions (including the ability to deduct executive compensation expenses in excess of $1 million in virtually all instances). notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of these changes on the company's results of operations is uncertain and will likely evolve as new regulations and interpretations relating to the tcja are implemented. in addition, various political figures have pledged their support to overturning or modifying key aspects of the tcja which could further increase the uncertainty relating to the impact of this or any future tax legislation on the company's results of operations. protiviti may be unable to attract and retain key personnel. protiviti is a services business, and is dependent upon its ability to attract and retain qualified, skilled personnel. while protiviti has retained its key personnel to date, there can be no assurance that it will continue to be able to do so. protiviti operates in a highly competitive business and faces competitors who are significantly larger and have more established reputations. protiviti operates in a highly competitive business. as with the company's staffing services business, the barriers to entry are quite low. there are many competitors, some of which have greater resources than protiviti and many of which have been in operation far longer than protiviti . in particular, protiviti faces competition from the big four accounting firms, which have been in operation for a considerable period of time and have established reputations and client bases. because the principal factors upon which competition is based are reputation, technology, tools, project methodologies, price of services and depth of skills of personnel, there can be no assurance that protiviti will be successful in attracting and retaining clients or be able to maintain the technology, personnel and other requirements to successfully compete. protiviti's operations could subject it to liability. the business of protiviti consists of providing business consulting and internal audit services. liability could be incurred or litigation could be instituted against the company or protiviti for claims related to these activities or to prior transactions or activities. there can be no assurance that such liability or litigation will not have a material adverse impact on protiviti or the company. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for further discussion of the impact of foreign currency exchange rates on the company's results of operations and financial condition. years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016 revenues. the company's revenues were $5.27 billion for the year ended december 31, 2017 , increasing by 0.3% compared to $5.25 billion for the year ended december 31, 2016 . revenues from foreign operations represented 22% and 20% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. the company analyzes its revenues for three reportable segments: temporary and consultant staffing, permanent placement staffing and risk consulting and internal audit services. in 2017 , revenues for permanent placement staffing and risk consulting and internal audit services were up and revenues for temporary and consultant staffing were down slightly compared to 2016 . revenue growth was strongest internationally, most notably within europe. contributing factors for each reportable segment are discussed below in further detail. temporary and consultant staffing revenues were $4.01 billion for the year ended december 31, 2017 , remained essentially flat compared to revenues of $4.03 billion for the year ended december 31, 2016 . key drivers of temporary and consultant staffing revenues include average hourly bill rates and the number of hours worked by the company's temporary employees on client engagements. on a same-day, constant-currency basis, temporary and consultant staffing revenues decreased 0.3% for 2017 , compared to 2016 , due primarily to fewer hours worked by the company's temporary employees, partially offset by a 2.7% increase in average bill rates. in the u.s., 2017 revenues decreased 3.1% on an as reported basis and 2.8% on a same-day basis, compared to 2016 . for the company's international operations, 2017 revenues increased 11.0% on an as reported basis and 10.1% on a same-day, constant-currency basis, compared to 2016 . 17 permanent placement staffing revenues were $439 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 , increasing by 4.7% compared to revenues of $419 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 . key drivers of permanent placement staffing revenues consist of the number of candidate placements and average fees earned per placement. on a same-day, constant-currency basis, permanent placement staffing revenues increased 4.9% for 2017 compared to 2016 due to increases in both the number of placements and average fees per placement. in the u.s., 2017 revenues increased 0.9% on an as reported basis and 1.3% on a same-day basis, compared to 2016 . for the company's international operations, 2017 revenues increased 14.1% on an as reported basis, and on a same-day, constant-currency basis increased 13.5% , compared to 2016 . historically, demand for permanent placement services is even more sensitive to economic and labor market conditions than demand for temporary and consulting staffing and this is expected to continue. risk consulting and internal audit services revenues were $817 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 , increasing by 1.5% compared to revenues of $804 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 . key drivers of risk consulting and internal audit services revenues are the billable hours worked by consultants on client engagements and average hourly bill rates. on a same-day, constant-currency basis, risk consulting and internal audit services revenues increased 1.9% for 2017 compared to 2016 , driven primarily by increases in billable hours and billing rates. in the u.s., 2017 revenues remained essentially flat on an as reported basis, and increased 0.3% on a same-day basis, compared to 2016 . for the company's international operations, 2017 revenues increased 9.5% on an as reported basis, or 10.2% on a same-day, constant-currency basis, compared to 2016 . a reconciliation of the non-gaap year-over-year revenue growth rates to the as reported year-over-year revenue growth rates for the year ended december 31, 2017 , is presented in the following table: global united states international temporary and consultant staffing as reported -0.4 % -3.1 % 11.0 % billing days impact 0.4 % 0.3 % 0.5 % currency impact -0.3 % -1.4 % same billing days and constant currency -0.3 % -2.8 % 10.1 % permanent placement staffing as reported 4.7 % 0.9 % 14.1 % billing days impact 0.5 % 0.4 % 0.4 % currency impact -0.3 % -1.0 % same billing days and constant currency 4.9 % 1.3 % 13.5 % risk consulting and internal audit services as reported 1.5 % 0.0 % 9.5 % billing days impact 0.4 % 0.3 % 0.4 % currency impact 0.0 % 0.3 % same billing days and constant currency 1.9 % 0.3 % 10.2 % gross margin . the company's gross margin dollars were $2.16 billion for both the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016 . contributing factors for each reportable segment are discussed below in further detail. gross margin dollars for temporary and consultant staffing represent revenues less direct costs of services, which consist of payroll, payroll taxes and benefit costs for temporary employees, and reimbursable expenses. the key drivers of gross margin are: i) pay/bill spreads, which represent the differential between wages paid to temporary employees and amounts billed to clients; ii) fringe costs, which are primarily composed of payroll taxes and benefit costs for temporary and consultant staffing employees; and iii) conversion revenues, which are earned when a temporary position converts to a permanent position with the company's client. gross margin dollars for the company's temporary and consultant staffing division were $1.49 billion for the year ended december 31, 2017 , down 1.1% from $1.51 billion for the year ended december 31, 2016 . as a percentage of revenues, gross margin dollars for temporary and consultant staffing were 37.2% in 2017 , down from 37.5% in 2016 . this year-over-year decline in gross margin percentage is primarily attributable to higher workers' compensation costs and other fringe benefit costs. the company's 2017 results include $0.9 million in workers' compensation credits, pursuant to third-party actuarial reviews of the company's workers' compensation accruals. this compares to a credit of $5.8 million in the year-ago period. 18 gross margin dollars for permanent placement staffing represent revenues less reimbursable expenses. gross margin dollars for the company's permanent placement staffing division were $438 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 , up 4.7% from $419 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 . because reimbursable expenses for permanent placement staffing services are de minimis, the increase in gross margin dollars is substantially explained by the increase in revenues previously discussed. gross margin dollars for risk consulting and internal audit services represent revenues less direct costs of services, which consist primarily of professional staff payroll, payroll taxes, benefit costs and reimbursable expenses. the primary drivers of risk consulting and internal audit services gross margin are: i) the relative composition of and number of professional staff and their respective pay and bill rates; and ii) staff utilization, which is the relationship of time spent on client engagements in proportion to the total time available for the company's risk consulting and internal audit services staff. gross margin dollars for the company's risk consulting and internal audit division were $232 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 , up 0.2% from $231 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 . as a percentage of revenues, gross margin dollars for risk consulting and internal audit services were 28.4% in 2017 , down from 28.7% in 2016 . the decline in 2017 gross margin percentage compared to 2016 was primarily due to slightly lower staff utilization rates. selling, general and administrative expenses . the company's selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of staff compensation, advertising, depreciation and occupancy costs. the company's selling, general and administrative expenses were $1.65 billion for the year ended december 31, 2017 , up 2.5% from $1.61 billion for the year ended december 31, 2016 . as a percentage of revenues, the company's selling, general and administrative expenses were 31.3% for 2017 , up from 30.6% for 2016 . contributing factors for each reportable segment are discussed below in further detail. selling, general and administrative expenses for the company's temporary and consultant staffing division were $1.14 billion for the year ended december 31, 2017 , up 1.9% from $1.12 billion for the year ended december 31, 2016 . as a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses for temporary and consultant staffing were 28.4% in 2017 , up from 27.7% in 2016 . for 2017 compared to 2016 , the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue is primarily due to increases in staff compensation costs and costs expensed related to digital technology initiatives. selling, general and administrative expenses for the company's permanent placement staffing division were $361 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 , up 6.5% from $339 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 . as a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses for permanent placement staffing services were 82.1% in 2017 , up from 80.7% in 2016 . for 2017 compared to 2016 , the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue is primarily due to increases in staff compensation costs and costs expensed related to digital technology initiatives. selling, general and administrative expenses for the company's risk consulting and internal audit services division were $148 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 , down 1.7% from $150 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 . as a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses for risk consulting and internal audit services were 18.1% in 2017 , down from 18.7% in 2016 . for 2017 compared to 2016 , the decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue is primarily due to decreases in fixed overhead costs. operating income . the company's total operating income was $517 million , or 9.8% of revenues, for the year ended december 31, 2017 , down 6.7% from $555 million , or 10.6% of revenues, for the year ended december 31, 2016 . for the company's temporary and consultant staffing division, operating income was $356 million , or 8.9% of applicable revenues, down 9.7% from $394 million , or 9.8% of applicable revenues, in 2016 . for the company's permanent placement staffing division, operating income was $77 million , or 17.7% of applicable revenues, down 2.9% from operating income of $80 million , or 19.1% of applicable revenues, in 2016 . for the company's risk consulting and internal audit services division, operating income was $84 million , or 10.3% of applicable revenues, up 3.9% from operating income of $81 million , or 10% of applicable revenues, in 2016 . provision for income taxes. the provision for income taxes was 43.9% and 38.0% for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. the increase is primarily due to the $34 million one-time, non-cash charge resulting from the recently enacted tcja. 19 years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015 revenues. the company's revenues were $5.25 billion for the year ended december 31, 2016, increasing by 3.1% compared to $5.09 billion for the year ended december 31, 2015. revenues from foreign operations represented 20% and 19% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. the company analyzes its revenues for three reportable segments: temporary and consultant staffing, permanent placement staffing and risk consulting and internal audit services. in 2016, revenues for temporary and consultant staffing and risk consulting and internal audit services were up and revenue for permanent placement staffing was down compared to 2015. revenue growth was strongest internationally, most notably within europe. risk consulting and internal audit services continued to post strong growth rates. contributing factors for each reportable segment are discussed below in further detail. temporary and consultant staffing revenues were $4.03 billion for the year ended december 31, 2016, increasing by 2.4% compared to revenues of $3.93 billion for the year ended december 31, 2015. key drivers of temporary and consultant staffing revenues include average hourly bill rates and the number of hours worked by the company's temporary employees on client engagements. on a same-day, constant-currency basis, temporary and consultant staffing revenues increased 2.8% for 2016, compared to 2015, due primarily to a 4.2% increase in average bill rates, partially offset by fewer hours worked by the company's temporary employees. in the u.s., 2016 revenues increased 2.0% on an as reported basis and 1.9% on a same-day basis, compared to 2015. for the company's international operations, 2016 revenues increased 4.2% on an as reported basis and 6.9% on a same-day, constant-currency basis, compared to 2015 . permanent placement staffing revenues were $419 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, decreasing by 0.5% compared to revenues of $421 million for the year ended december 31, 2015. key drivers of permanent placement staffing revenues consist of the number of candidate placements and average fees earned per placement. on a same-day, constant- currency basis, permanent placement revenues increased 0.3% for 2016 compared to 2015. the decrease in as reported revenue was driven primarily by a decrease in number of placements, partially offset by an increase in average fees earned per placement. in the u.s., 2016 revenues increased 0.3% on an as reported basis and 0.1% on a same-day basis, compared to 2015. for the company's international operations, 2016 revenues decreased 2.3% on an as reported basis, and on a same-day, constant-currency basis increased 0.6%, compared to 2015. historically, demand for permanent placement services is even more sensitive to economic and labor market conditions than demand for temporary and consulting staffing and this is expected to continu e. risk consulting and internal audit services revenues were $804 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, increasing by 8.3% compared to revenues of $743 million for the year ended december 31, 2015. key drivers of risk consulting and internal audit services revenues are the billable hours worked by consultants on client engagements and average hourly bill rates. on a same-day, constant-currency basis, risk consulting and internal audit services revenues increased 8.5% for 2016 compared to 2015, due primarily to an increase in number of hours worked, partially offset by a decrease in average hourly bill rates. in the u.s., 2016 revenues increased 8.0% on an as reported basis, or 7.9% on a same-day basis, compared to 2015. for the company's international operations, 2016 revenues increased 9.6% on an as reported basis and 11.7% on a same-day, constant-currency basis, compared to 2015 . 20 a reconciliation of the non-gaap year-over-year revenue growth rates to the as reported year-over-year revenue growth rates for the year ended december 31, 2016, is presented in the following table: global united states international temporary and consultant staffing as reported 2.4 % 2.0 % 4.2 % billing days impact -0.1 % -0.1 % -0.1 % currency impact 0.5 % 2.8 % same billing days and constant currency 2.8 % 1.9 % 6.9 % permanent placement staffing as reported -0.5 % 0.3 % -2.3 % billing days impact -0.1 % -0.2 % -0.1 % currency impact 0.9 % 3.0 % same billing days and constant currency 0.3 % 0.1 % 0.6 % risk consulting and internal audit services as reported 8.3 % 8.0 % 9.6 % billing days impact -0.2 % -0.1 % -0.2 % currency impact 0.4 % 2.3 % same billing days and constant currency 8.5 % 7.9 % 11.7 % gross margin . the company's gross margin dollars were $2.16 billion for the year ended december 31, 2016, up 2.2% from $2.11 billion for the year ended december 31, 2015. contributing factors for each reportable segment are discussed below in further detail . g ross margin dollars from the company's temporary and consultant staffing division represent revenues less direct costs of services, which consist of payroll, payroll taxes and benefit costs for temporary employees, and reimbursable expenses. the key drivers of gross margin are: i) pay/bill spreads, which represent the differential between wages paid to temporary employees and amounts billed to clients; ii) fringe costs, which are primarily composed of payroll taxes and benefit costs for temporary and consultant staffing employees; and iii) conversion revenues, which are earned when a temporary position converts to a permanent position with the company ' client. gross margin dollars for the company's temporary and consultant staffing division were $1.51 billion for the year ended december 31, 2016, up 3.2% from $1.46 billion for the year ended december 31, 2015. as a percentage of revenues, gross margin dollars for temporary and consultant staffing were 37.5% in 2016, up from 37.2% in 2015. this year-over-year improvement in gross margin percentage of 0.3% was primarily attributable to higher pay/bill spreads and lower payroll taxes and workers ' compensation costs, partially offset by lower conversion revenues as a percentage of applicable revenue in 2016 compared to 2015 . g ross margin dollars from permanent placement staffing represent revenues less reimbursable expenses. gross margin dollars for the company's permanent placement staffing division were $419 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, down 0.5% from $421 million for the year ended december 31, 2015. because reimbursable expenses for permanent placement staffing services are de minimis, the decrease in gross margin dollars is substantially explained by the decrease in revenues previously discussed . g ross margin dollars for risk consulting and internal audit services represent revenues less direct costs of services, which consist primarily of professional staff payroll, payroll taxes, benefit costs and reimbursable expenses. the primary drivers of risk consulting and internal audit services gross margin are: i) the relative composition of and number of professional staff and their respective pay and bill rates; and ii) staff utilization, which is the relationship of time spent on client engagements in proportion to the total time available for the company's risk consulting and internal audit services staff. gross margin dollars for the company's risk consulting and internal audit division were $231 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, up 0.4% from $230 million for the year ended december 31, 2015. as a percentage of revenues, gross margin dollars for risk consulting and internal audit services were 28.7% in 2016, down from 31.0% in 2015. the decline in 2016 gross margin percentage compared to 2015 was due to lower staff utilization rates and the mix impact of lower financial services and regulatory compliance revenues, which is typically a higher margin business for the company . selling, general and administrative expenses . t he company's selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of staff compensation, advertising, depreciation and occupancy costs. the company's selling, general and 21 administrative expenses were $1.61 billion for the year ended december 31, 2016, up 4.7% from $1.53 billion for the year ended december 31, 2015. as a percentage of revenues, the company's selling, general and administrative expenses were 30.6% for 2016, up from 30.1% for 2015. contributing factors for each reportable segment are discussed below in further detail . elling, general and administrative expenses for the company's temporary and consultant staffing division were $1.12 billion for the year ended december 31, 2016, up 5.0% from $1.06 billion for the year ended december 31, 2015. as a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses for temporary and consultant staffing were 27.7% in 2016, up from 27.1% in 2015. for 2016 compared to 2015, the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue is primarily due to increases in staff compensation costs, inclusive of employee medical costs, and variable overhead, including costs related to the company's new crm and project management systems . elling, general and administrative expenses for the company's permanent placement staffing division were $339 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, up 0.8% from $336 million for the year ended december 31, 2015. as a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses for permanent placement staffing services were 80.7% in 2016, up from 79.7% in 2015. for 2016 compared to 2015, the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue is primarily due to increases in staff compensation costs, inclusive of employee medical costs . elling, general and administrative expenses for the company's risk consulting and internal audit services division were$150 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, up 11.9% from $134 million for the year ended december 31, 2015. as a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses for risk consulting and internal audit services were 18.7% in 2016, up from 18.1% in 2015. for 2016 compared to 2015, the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue is primarily due to an increase in administrative compensation and fixed overhead . operating income . the company's total operating income was $555 million, or 10.6% of revenues, for the year ended december 31, 2016, down 4.5% from $581 million, or 11.4% of revenues, for the year ended december 31, 2015. for the company's temporary and consultant staffing division, operating income was $394 million, or 9.8% of applicable revenues, down 1.5% from $400 million, or 10.2% of applicable revenues, in 2015. for the company's permanent placement staffing division, operating income was $80 million, or 19.1% of applicable revenues, down 5.9% from operating income of $85 million, or 20.2% of applicable revenues, in 2015. for the company's risk consulting and internal audit services division, operating income was $81 million, or 10.0% of applicable revenues, down 15.7% from operating income of $96 million, or 12.9% of applicable revenues, in 2015 . provision for income taxes. the provision for income taxes was 38.0% and 38.4% for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. the decrease is primarily due to an increase of federal and state credits in the u.s, and benefit of foreign losses . liquidity and capital resources the change in the company's liquidity during the years ended december 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , is primarily the net effect of funds generated by operations and the funds used for capital expenditures, repurchases of common stock, payment of dividends, and payments to trusts for employee deferred compensation plans. cash and cash equivalents were $295 million , $260 million , and $225 million at december 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. operating activities provided $453 million during the year ended december 31, 2017 , offset by $78 million and $353 million of net cash used in investing activities and financing activities, respectively. operating activities provided $442 million during the year ended december 31, 2016 , offset by $112 million and $288 million of net cash used in investing activities and financing activities, respectively. operating activities provided $438 million during the year ended december 31, 2015 , offset by $118 million and $369 million of net cash used in investing activities and financing activities, respectively. operating activities net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2017 , was $453 million . this was composed of net income of $291 million adjusted upward for non-cash items of $160 million and net cash provided by working capital of $2 million. net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2016 , was composed of net income of $343 million adjusted upward for non-cash items of $113 million , offset by net cash used in changes in working capital of $14 million . net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2015 , was composed of net income of $358 million adjusted upward for non-cash items of $89 million, offset by net cash used in changes in working capital of $9 million. investing activities cash used in investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2017 , was $78 million . this was composed of capital expenditures of $41 million , deposits to trusts for employee deferred compensation plans of $36 million, and payments for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, of $1 million . cash used in investing activities for the year ended 22 december 31, 2016 , was $112 million . this was primarily composed of capital expenditures of $83 million and deposits to trusts for employee deferred compensation plans of $27 million , and payment for an acquisition, net of cash acquired, of $2 million . cash used in investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2015 , was $118 million. this was primarily composed of capital expenditures of $75 million and deposits to trusts for employee deferred compensation plans of $28 million, and payment for an acquisition, net of cash acquired, of $15 million . financing activities cash used in financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2017 , was $353 million . this included repurchases of $232 million in common stock and $121 million in cash dividends to stockholders. cash used in financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2016 , was $288 million . this included repurchases of $176 million in common stock and $114 million in cash dividends to stockholders, offset by the excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $2 million . cash used in financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2015 , was $369 million. this included repurchases of $271 million in common stock, $108 million in cash dividends to stockholders, offset by proceeds of $2 million from exercises of stock options and the excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $9 million. as of december 31, 2017 , the company is authorized to repurchase, from time to time, up to 2.3 million additional shares of the company's common stock on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, depending on market conditions. on february 13, 2018, the company authorized the repurchase, from time to time, of up to an additional 10 million shares of the company's common stock on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, depending on market conditions. during the years ended december 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , the company repurchased approximately 4.0 million shares, 4.0 million shares and 4.3 million shares of common stock on the open market for a total cost of $197 million, $164 million and $228 million, respectively. additional stock repurchases were made in connection with employee stock plans, whereby company shares were tendered by employees for the payment of exercise price and applicable statutory withholding taxes. during the years ended december 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , such repurchases totaled approximately 0.4 million shares, 0.4 million shares and 0.5 million shares at a cost of $20 million, $15 million and $25 million, respectively. repurchases of shares have been funded with cash generated from operations. the company's working capital at december 31, 2017 , included $295 million in cash and cash equivalents. the company expects that internally generated cash will be sufficient to support the working capital needs of the company, the company's fixed payments, dividends, and other obligations on both a short-term and long-term basis. on february 13, 2018, the company announced a quarterly dividend of $.28 per share to be paid to all shareholders of record on february 23, 2018. the dividend will be paid on march 15, 2018. the company's cash flows generated from operations are also the primary source for funding various contractual obligations. the table below summarizes the company's major commitments as of december 31, 2017 (in thousands): payments due by period contractual obligations 2018 2019 and 2020 2021 and 2022 thereafter total long-term debt obligations $ 252 $ 505 $ 252 $ $ 1,009 operating lease obligations 85,484 137,984 82,642 64,042 370,152 purchase obligations 59,854 47,521 17,737 11,490 136,602 other liabilities 1,177 1,695 1,153 6,353 10,378 total $ 146,767 $ 187,705 $ 101,784 $ 81,885 $ 518,141 long-term debt obligations consist of promissory notes and related interest as well as other forms of indebtedness issued in connection with certain acquisitions and other payment obligations. operating lease obligations consist of minimum rental commitments for 2018 and thereafter under non-cancelable leases in effect at december 31, 2017 . purchase obligations consist of purchase commitments primarily related to telecom service agreements, software subscriptions, and computer hardware and software maintenance agreements. other liabilities consist of asset retirement and deferred compensation obligations. 23 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk because a portion of the company's net revenues are derived from its operations outside the u.s. and are denominated in local currencies, the company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations. the company's exposure to foreign currency exchange rates relates primarily to the company's foreign subsidiaries. exchange rates impact the u.s. dollar value of the company's reported revenues, expenses, earnings, assets and liabilities. for the year ended december 31, 2017 , approximately 22% of the company's revenues were generated outside of the united states. these operations transact business in their functional currency, which is the same as their local currency. as a result, fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar, particularly the canadian dollar, british pound, euro, and australian dollar have an impact on the company's reported results. under gaap, revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into u.s. dollars at the monthly average exchange rates prevailing during the period. consequently, as the value of the u.s. dollar changes relative to the currencies of the company's non-u.s. markets, the company's reported results vary. during 2017 , the u.s. dollar fluctuated, but generally weakened, against the primary currencies in which the company conducts business. currency exchange rates had the effect of increasing reported net service revenues by $11 million, or 0.2%, in 2017 compared to prior year. the general weakening of the u.s. dollar also affected the reported level of expenses incurred in the company's foreign operations. because substantially all of the company's foreign operations generated revenues and incurred expenses within the same country and currency, the unfavorable effect of higher reported operating expenses largely offset the increase in reported revenues. reported net income was $0.8 million, or 0.2%, higher in the year ended december 31, 2017 compared to prior year due to the effect of currency exchange rates. for the month ended january 31, 2018 , the u.s. dollar weakened against the euro, british pound, canadian dollar, and australian dollar. if currency exchange rates were to remain at january 2018 levels throughout 2018 , the company's 2018 full-year reported revenues would be impacted favorably, mostly offset by an unfavorable impact to operating expenses. thus, the impact to reported net income would likely be immaterial. fluctuations in currency exchange rates impact the u.s. dollar amount of the company's stockholders' equity. the assets and liabilities of the company's non-u.s. subsidiaries are translated into u.s. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at period end. the resulting translation adjustments are recorded in stockholders' equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. although currency fluctuations impact the company's reported results and shareholders' equity, such fluctuations generally do not affect cash flow or result in actual economic gains or losses. the company generally has few cross-border transfers of funds, except for transfers to the u.s. for payment of intercompany loans, working capital loans made between the u.s. and the company's foreign subsidiaries, and dividends from the company's foreign subsidiaries. 24risk factors the company's business prospects are subject to various risks and uncertainties that impact its business. the most important of these risks and uncertainties are as follows: any reduction in global economic activity may harm the company's business and financial condition. the demand for the company's services, in particular its staffing services, is highly dependent upon the state of the economy and upon the staffing needs of the company's clients. certain of the company's markets have recently experienced prolonged economic downturns characterized by high unemployment, limited availability of credit and decreased consumer and business spending. in addition, certain geopolitical events, including the prolonged shutdown of the united states government and the ongoing negotiation of the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union ( brexit ), have caused significant economic, market, political and regulatory uncertainty in some of the company's markets. any decline in the economic condition or employment levels of the u.s. or of any of the foreign countries in which the company does business, or in the economic condition of any region of any of the foregoing, or in any specific industry may severely reduce the demand for the company's services and thereby significantly decrease the company's revenues and profits. further, continued or intensifying economic, political or regulatory uncertainty in the company's markets could reduce demand for the company's services. the company's business depends on a strong reputation and anything that harms its reputation will likely harm its results. as a provider of temporary and permanent staffing solutions as well as consultant services, the company's reputation is dependent upon the performance of the employees it places with its clients and the services rendered by its consultants. the company depends on its reputation and name recognition to secure engagements and to hire qualified employees and consultants. if the company's clients become dissatisfied with the performance of those employees or consultants or if any of those employees or consultants engage in or are believed to have engaged in conduct that is harmful to the company's clients, the company's ability to maintain or expand its client base may be harmed. the company and certain subsidiaries are defendants in several lawsuits that could cause the company to incur substantial liabilities . the company and certain subsidiaries are defendants in several actual or asserted class and representative action lawsuits brought by or on behalf of the company's current and former employees alleging violations of federal and state law with respect to certain wage and hour related matters, as well as claims challenging the company's compliance with the fair credit reporting act. the various claims made in one or more of such lawsuits include, among other things, the misclassification of certain employees as exempt employees under applicable law, failure to comply with wage statement requirements, failure to compensate certain employees for time spent performing activities related to the interviewing process, and other related wage and hour violations. such suits seek, as applicable, unspecified amounts for unpaid overtime compensation, penalties, and other damages, as well as attorneys' fees. it is not possible to predict the outcome of these lawsuits. however, these lawsuits may consume substantial amounts of the company's financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the lawsuits. in addition, the company and its subsidiaries may become subject to similar lawsuits in the same or other jurisdictions, or to various other claims, disputes, and legal or regulatory proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. an unfavorable outcome with respect to these lawsuits and any future lawsuits or regulatory proceedings could, individually or in the aggregate, cause the company to incur substantial liabilities or impact its operations in such a way that may have a material adverse effect upon the company's business, financial condition or results of operations. furthermore, any future lawsuits, claims, disputes, or legal or regulatory proceedings may also consume substantial amounts of the company's financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, regardless of the ultimate outcome. in addition, an unfavorable outcome in one or more of these cases could 4 cause the company to change its compensation plans for its employees, which could have a material adverse effect upon the company's business. the company faces risks in operating internationally. the company depends on operations in international markets, including europe, for a significant portion of its business. in the past several years, the european market experienced economic uncertainty, which adversely affected, and the return of which may in the future adversely affect, the company's operations in europe. in particular, brexit has contributed to, and may continue to contribute to, european economic, market and regulatory uncertainty and could adversely affect european or worldwide economic, market, regulatory, or political conditions. to the extent that adverse economic conditions and uncertainty in europe (related to brexit or otherwise) worsen, demand for the company's services may decline, which could significantly harm its business and results of operations. in addition, these international operations are subject to a number of risks, including general political and economic conditions in those foreign countries, the burden of complying with various foreign laws and technical standards and unpredictable changes in foreign regulations, u.s. legal requirements governing u.s. companies operating in foreign countries, legal and cultural differences in the conduct of business, potential adverse tax consequences and difficulty in staffing and managing international operations. in addition, the company's business may be affected by foreign currency exchange fluctuations. in particular, the company is subject to risk in translating its results in foreign currencies into the u.s. dollar. if the value of the u.s. dollar strengthens relative to other currencies, the company's reported income from these operations could decrease. the value of the u.s. dollar has recently strengthened considerably against a number of major foreign currencies, and a continuation or extension of this strength relative to these other currencies could adversely impact the company's reported income from its international markets and cause its revenue in such markets, when translated into u.s. dollars, to decline. the company could also be exposed to fines and penalties under u.s. or local jurisdiction trade sanctions and controls as well as laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials. although the company has implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, it cannot be sure that its employees, contractors or agents will not violate such policies. any such violations could materially damage the company's reputation, brand, business and operating results. further, changes in u.s. laws and policies governing foreign trade or investment and use of foreign operations or workers, and any negative sentiments towards the united states as a result of such changes, could adversely affect the company's operations. government regulations may result in prohibition or restriction of certain types of employment services or the imposition of additional licensing or tax requirements that may reduce the company's future earnings. in many jurisdictions in which the company operates, the employment services industry is heavily regulated. for example, governmental regulations in some countries restrict the length of contracts and the industries in which the company's employees may be used. in other countries, special taxes, fees or costs are imposed in connection with the use of its employees. additionally, trade unions in some countries have used the political process to target the industry, in an effort to increase the regulatory burden and expense associated with offering or utilizing temporary staffing solutions. the countries in which we operate may, among other things: create additional regulations that prohibit or restrict the types of employment services that the company currently provides; require new or additional benefits be paid to the company's employees; require the company to obtain additional licensing to provide employment services; or increase taxes, such as sales or value-added taxes, payable by the providers of temporary workers. any future regulations may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and financial results because they may make it more difficult or expensive for the company to continue to provide employment services. additionally, as the company expands existing service offerings, adds new service offerings, or enters new markets, it may become subject to additional restrictions and regulations which may impede its business, increase costs and impact profitability. the company may be unable to find sufficient candidates for its staffing business. the company's staffing services business consists of the placement of individuals seeking employment. there can be no assurance that candidates for employment will continue to seek employment through the company. candidates generally seek temporary or regular positions through multiple sources, including the company and its competitors. unemployment in the united states has been low in the past couple of years and has recently decreased further; some economists have speculated that in certain markets, the u.s. could be at or near full employment. this phenomenon has made finding sufficient eligible candidates to meet employers' demands more challenging and further increases in the employment rates could compound these difficulties. any shortage of candidates could materially adversely affect the company. the company operates in a highly competitive business and may be unable to retain clients or market share. the staffing services business is highly competitive and, because it is a service business, the barriers to entry are quite low. there 5 are many competitors, some of which have greater resources than the company, and new competitors are entering the market all the time. in addition, long-term contracts form a negligible portion of the company's revenue. therefore, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to retain clients or market share in the future. nor can there be any assurance that the company will, in light of competitive pressures, be able to remain profitable or, if profitable, maintain its current profit margins. the company may incur potential liability to employees and clients. the company's temporary services business entails employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients' workplaces. the company's ability to control the workplace environment is limited. as the employer of record of its temporary employees, the company incurs a risk of liability to its temporary employees for various workplace events, including claims of physical injury, discrimination, harassment or failure to protect confidential personal information. while such claims have not historically had a material adverse effect upon the company, there can be no assurance that such claims in the future will not result in adverse publicity or have a material adverse effect upon the company. the company also incurs a risk of liability to its clients resulting from allegations of errors, omissions or theft by its temporary employees, or allegations of misuse of client confidential information. in many cases, the company has agreed to indemnify its clients in respect of these types of claims. the company maintains insurance with respect to many of such claims. while such claims have not historically had a material adverse effect upon the company, there can be no assurance that the company will continue to be able to obtain insurance at a cost that does not have a material adverse effect upon the company or that such claims (whether by reason of the company not having sufficient insurance or by reason of such claims being outside the scope of the company's insurance) will not have a material adverse effect upon the company. the company is dependent on its management personnel and employees and a failure to attract and retain such personnel could harm its business. the company is engaged in the services business. as such, its success or failure is highly dependent upon the performance of its management personnel and employees, rather than upon technology or upon tangible assets (of which the company has few). there can be no assurance that the company will be able to attract and retain the personnel that are essential to its success. the company's business is subject to extensive government regulation and a failure to comply with regulations could harm its business. the company's business is subject to regulation or licensing in many states in the u.s. and in certain foreign countries. while the company has had no material difficulty complying with regulations in the past, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to continue to obtain all necessary licenses or approvals or that the cost of compliance will not prove to be material. any inability of the company to comply with government regulation or licensing requirements could materially adversely affect the company. further, changes to existing regulation or licensing requirements could impose additional costs and other burdens or limitations on the company's operations. in addition, the company's temporary services business entails employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients' workplaces. increased government regulation of the workplace or of the employer-employee relationship, or judicial or administrative proceedings related to such regulation, could materially adversely affect the company. in addition, to the extent that government regulation imposes increased costs upon the company, such as unemployment insurance taxes, there can be no assurance that such costs will not adversely impact the company's profit margins. further, lawsuits or other proceedings related to the company's compliance with government regulations or licensing requirements could materially adversely affect the company. for example, the company is currently named as a defendant in litigation challenging its compliance with the fair credit reporting act. it is not possible to predict the outcome of such litigation; however, such litigation or any future lawsuits or proceedings related to the company's compliance with government regulation or licensing requirements could consume substantial amounts of the company's financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, regardless of the ultimate outcome of any such lawsuits or other proceedings. an unfavorable outcome with respect to such litigation or any future lawsuits or proceedings could, individually or in the aggregate, cause the company to incur substantial liabilities that may have a material adverse effect upon the company's business, financial condition or results of operations. health care reform could increase the costs of the company's temporary staffing operations . in march 2010, the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (the ppaca ) was signed into law in the united states. in 2015, the company redesigned its employee benefits to offer health insurance coverage to its temporary candidates in order to meet the requirements of the ppaca's employer mandate. it is likely that president trump and the u.s. congress will continue to seek to modify, repeal, or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the ppaca. president trump has issued multiple executive orders in support of repealing the ppaca, in whole or in part, and the u.s. congress has made several attempts to repeal or modify the ppaca. it is unclear at this point what the scope of any future such legislation will be and when it will become effective. because of the uncertainty surrounding this replacement health care reform legislation, we cannot predict with any certainty the likely impact of the ppaca's repeal or the adoption of any other health care reform legislation on the company's financial condition or operating results. whether or 6 not there is alternative health care legislation enacted in the u.s., there is likely to be significant disruption to the health care market in the coming months and years and the costs of the company's health care expenditures may increase. the company's computer and communications hardware and software systems are vulnerable to damage and interruption. the company's ability to manage its operations successfully is critical to its success and largely depends upon the efficient and uninterrupted operation of its computer and communications hardware and software systems, some of which are managed by third-party vendors. the company's primary computer systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, phishing and malware attacks, catastrophic events and errors in usage by the company's employees and those of the company's vendors. the company has been subject to cyberattacks in the past, including phishing and malware incidents, and although no such attack has had a material adverse effect on its business, this may not be the case with future attacks. in particular, the company's employees or vendors may have access or exposure to personally identifiable or otherwise confidential information and customer data and systems, the misuse of which could result in legal liability. cyber-attacks, including attacks motivated by grievances against the business services industry in general or against the company in particular, may disable or damage its systems. it is possible that the company's security controls or those of its third-party vendors over personal and other data and other practices it follows may not prevent the improper access to or disclosure of personally identifiable or otherwise confidential information. such disclosure or damage to the company's systems could harm its reputation and subject it to government sanctions and liability under its contracts and laws that protect personal data and confidential information, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. the potential risk of security breaches and cyber-attacks may increase as the company introduces new service offerings. changes in data privacy and protection laws and regulations in respect of control of personal information could increase the company's costs or otherwise adversely impact its operations. in the ordinary course of business, the company collects, uses, and retains personal information from its employees, employment candidates, and contractors, including, without limitation, full names, government-issued identification numbers, addresses, birth dates, and payroll-related information. the possession and use of personal information in conducting the company's business subjects it to a variety of complex and evolving domestic and foreign laws and regulations regarding data privacy, protection and security, which, in many cases, apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information among the company and its subsidiaries. for example, the european union's general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which became effective in may 2018, imposes stringent operational requirements for entities processing personal information, such as strong safeguards for data transfers to countries outside the european union and strong enforcement authorities and mechanisms. complying with the enhanced obligations imposed by the gdpr and other current and future laws and regulations relating to data transfer, residency, privacy and protection has increased and may continue to increase the company's operating costs and require significant management time and attention, while any failure by the company or its subsidiaries to comply with applicable laws could result in governmental enforcement actions, fines, and other penalties that could potentially have an adverse effect on the company's operations and reputation. failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in the company's financial reporting. failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in the company's financial reporting. if the company's management is unable to certify the effectiveness of its internal controls or if its independent registered public accounting firm cannot render an opinion on the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting, or if material weaknesses in the company's internal controls are identified, the company could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence. in addition, if the company does not maintain adequate financial and management personnel, processes and controls, it may not be able to accurately report its financial performance on a timely basis, which could cause its stock price to fall. failure to identify and respond to risk issues in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business. although we have processes in place to attempt to identify and respond to risk issues in a timely manner, our efforts may not be sufficient. further, the company's culture may not sufficiently encourage timely identification and escalation of significant risk issues. the company's results of operations and ability to grow could be materially negatively affected if it cannot successfully keep pace with technological changes impacting the development and implementation of its services and the evolving needs of its clients. the company's success depends on its ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes affecting both the development and implementation of its services and the staffing needs of its clients. technological advances such as artificial intelligence, machine learning, and automation are impacting industries served by all our lines of business. in addition, the company's business relies on a variety of technologies, including those that support hiring and tracking, order management, billing, and client data analytics. if the company does not sufficiently invest in new technology and industry developments, appropriately implement new technologies, or evolve its business at sufficient speed and scale in response to such 7 developments, or if it does not make the right strategic investments to respond to these developments, the company's services, results of operations, and ability to develop and maintain its business could be negatively affected. the demand for the company's services related to sarbanes-oxley or other regulatory compliance may decline. the operations of both the staffing services business and protiviti include services related to sarbanes-oxley and other regulatory compliance. there can be no assurance that there will be ongoing demand for these services. there are a number of proposals currently being considered by the u.s. congress to further delay or, in some cases, remove the requirements of sarbanes-oxley for a number of public companies. further, many analysts are expecting the u.s. congress and president trump to seek to repeal or modify legislation that is viewed as having over-regulated certain sectors of the u.s. economy and decreased the incentive for u.s. companies to go public and their ability to effectively compete with foreign competition. these or other similar modifications of the regulatory requirements could decrease demand for protiviti's services. long-term contracts do not comprise a significant portion of the company's revenue. because long-term contracts are not a significant part of the company's staffing services business, future results cannot be reliably predicted by considering past trends or extrapolating past results. additionally, the company's clients will frequently enter into non-exclusive arrangements with several firms, which the client is generally able to terminate on short notice and without penalty. the nature of these arrangements further exacerbates the difficulty in predicting our future results. u.s. federal tax regulations and interpretations could adversely affect the company. on december 22, 2017, the tax cuts and jobs act (the tcja ) was signed into law. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and the company's consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto contained in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. the tcja contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including the reduction of the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% beginning in 2018, limitation for net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income and elimination of net operating loss carrybacks, one time taxation of offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated, elimination of u.s. tax on foreign earnings (subject to certain important exceptions), and modifying or repealing many business deductions (including the ability to deduct executive compensation expenses in excess of $1 million in virtually all instances). notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of these changes on the company's results of operations is uncertain and will likely evolve as new regulations and interpretations relating to the tcja are implemented. in addition, various political figures have pledged their support to overturning or modifying key aspects of the tcja which could further increase the uncertainty relating to the impact of this or any future tax legislation on the company's results of operations. protiviti may be unable to attract and retain key personnel. protiviti is a services business, and is dependent upon its ability to attract and retain qualified, skilled personnel. while protiviti has retained its key personnel to date, there can be no assurance that it will continue to be able to do so. protiviti operates in a highly competitive business and faces competitors who are significantly larger and have more established reputations. protiviti operates in a highly competitive business. as with the company's staffing services business, the barriers to entry are quite low. there are many competitors, some of which have greater resources than protiviti and many of which have been in operation far longer than protiviti . in particular, protiviti faces competition from the big four accounting firms, which have been in operation for a considerable period of time and have established reputations and client bases. because the principal factors upon which competition is based are reputation, technology, tools, project methodologies, price of services and depth of skills of personnel, there can be no assurance that protiviti will be successful in attracting and retaining clients or be able to maintain the technology, personnel and other requirements to successfully compete. protiviti's operations could subject it to liability. the business of protiviti consists of providing business consulting and internal audit services. liability could be incurred or litigation could be instituted against the company or protiviti for claims related to these activities or to prior transactions or activities. there can be no assurance that such liability or litigation will not have a material adverse impact on protiviti or the company. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for further discussion of the impact of foreign currency exchange rates on the company's results of operations and financial condition. years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017 revenues. the company's revenues were $5.80 billion for the year ended december 31, 2018 , increasing by 10.1% compared to $5.27 billion for the year ended december 31, 2017 . revenues from foreign operations represented 24% and 22% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. the company analyzes its revenues for three reportable segments: temporary and consultant staffing, permanent placement staffing and risk consulting and internal audit services. in 2018 , revenues for all three of the company's reportable segments were up compared to 2017 . revenue growth was strongest internationally, most notably within europe. permanent placement staffing and risk consulting and internal audit services continued to post strong growth rates. contributing factors for each reportable segment are discussed below in further detail. temporary and consultant staffing revenues were $4.33 billion for the year ended december 31, 2018 , increasing by 8.0% compared to revenues of $4.01 billion for the year ended december 31, 2017 . key drivers of temporary and consultant staffing revenues include average hourly bill rates and the number of hours worked by the company's temporary employees on client engagements. on an as adjusted basis, temporary and consultant staffing revenues increased 7.9% for 2018 , compared to 2017 , due primarily to a 4.1% increase in average bill rates and an increase in the number of hours worked by the company's temporary employees. in the u.s., 2018 revenues increased 5.8% on an as reported basis and 5.5% on an as adjusted basis, compared to 2017 . for the company's international operations, 2018 revenues increased 16.0% on an as reported basis and 17.0% on an as adjusted basis, compared to 2017 . permanent placement staffing revenues were $512 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 , increasing by 16.6% compared to revenues of $439 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 . key drivers of permanent placement staffing revenues consist of the number of candidate placements and average fees earned per placement. on an as adjusted basis, permanent placement staffing revenues increased 16.0% for 2018 compared to 2017 , driven by increases in number of placements and average fees earned per placement. in the u.s., 2018 revenues increased 16.4% on an as reported basis and 16.1% on an as adjusted basis, compared to 2017 . for the company's international operations, 2018 revenues increased 17.0% on an as reported basis, and increased 16.0% on an as adjusted basis, compared to 2017 . historically, demand for permanent placement services is even more sensitive to economic and labor market conditions than demand for temporary and consulting staffing and this is expected to continue. 16 risk consulting and internal audit services revenues were $958 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 , increasing by 17.3% compared to revenues of $817 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 . key drivers of risk consulting and internal audit services revenues are the billable hours worked by consultants on client engagements and average hourly bill rates. on an as adjusted basis, risk consulting and internal audit services revenues increased 13.2% for 2018 compared to 2017 , driven primarily by increases in billable hours and average hourly billing rates. in the u.s., 2018 revenues increased 12.0% on an as reported basis, or 11.8% on an as adjusted basis, compared to 2017 . for the company's international operations, 2018 revenues increased 42.1% on an as reported basis, or 19.2% on an as adjusted basis, compared to 2017 . the international year-over-year increases were primarily driven by strong revenue performance in europe and australia. a reconciliation of the non-gaap year-over-year revenue growth rates to the as reported year-over-year revenue growth rates for the year ended december 31, 2018 , is presented in the following table: global united states international temporary and consultant staffing as reported 8.0 % 5.8 % 16.0 % billing days impact -0.2 % -0.3 % 0.1 % currency impact -0.6 % -2.6 % intercompany adjustments 0.7 % 3.5 % as adjusted 7.9 % 5.5 % 17.0 % permanent placement staffing as reported 16.6 % 16.4 % 17.0 % billing days impact -0.2 % -0.3 % 0.3 % currency impact -0.4 % -1.3 % as adjusted 16.0 % 16.1 % 16.0 % risk consulting and internal audit services as reported 17.3 % 12.0 % 42.1 % billing days impact -0.2 % -0.2 % 0.3 % currency impact -0.4 % -2.0 % intercompany adjustments -3.5 % -21.2 % as adjusted 13.2 % 11.8 % 19.2 % gross margin . the company's gross margin dollars were $2.41 billion for the year ended december 31, 2018 , up 11.4% from $2.16 billion for the year ended december 31, 2017 . contributing factors for each reportable segment are discussed below in further detail. gross margin dollars for temporary and consultant staffing represent revenues less direct costs of services, which consist of payroll, payroll taxes and benefit costs for temporary employees, and reimbursable expenses. the key drivers of gross margin are: i) pay/bill spreads, which represent the differential between wages paid to temporary employees and amounts billed to clients; ii) fringe costs, which are primarily composed of payroll taxes and benefit costs for temporary and consultant staffing employees; and iii) conversion revenues, which are earned when a temporary position converts to a permanent position with the company's client. gross margin dollars for the company's temporary and consultant staffing division were $1.63 billion for the year ended december 31, 2018 , up 9.1% from $1.49 billion for the year ended december 31, 2017 . as a percentage of revenues, gross margin dollars for temporary and consultant staffing were 37.6% in 2018 , up from 37.2% in 2017 . this year-over-year improvement in gross margin percentage was primarily attributable to higher pay-bill spreads and conversion revenues. gross margin dollars for permanent placement staffing represent revenues less reimbursable expenses. gross margin dollars for the company's permanent placement staffing division were $511 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 , up 16.6% from $438 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 . because reimbursable expenses for permanent placement staffing services are de minimis, the increase in gross margin dollars is substantially explained by the increase in revenues previously discussed. gross margin dollars for risk consulting and internal audit services represent revenues less direct costs of services, which consist primarily of professional staff payroll, payroll taxes, benefit costs and reimbursable expenses. the primary drivers of risk consulting and internal audit services gross margin are: i) the relative composition of and number of professional staff and 17 their respective pay and bill rates; and ii) staff utilization, which is the relationship of time spent on client engagements in proportion to the total time available for the company's risk consulting and internal audit services staff. gross margin dollars for the company's risk consulting and internal audit division were $269 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 , up 16.2% from $232 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 . as a percentage of revenues, gross margin dollars for risk consulting and internal audit services were 28.1% in 2018 , down from 28.4% in 2017 . the decline in 2018 gross margin percentage compared to 2017 was primarily attributable to increases in both pay rates for professional staff and headcount. selling, general and administrative expenses . the company's selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of staff compensation, advertising, depreciation and occupancy costs. the company's selling, general and administrative expenses were $1.82 billion for the year ended december 31, 2018 , up 10.6% from $1.65 billion for the year ended december 31, 2017 . as a percentage of revenues, the company's selling, general and administrative expenses were 31.4% for 2018 , up from 31.3% for 2017 . contributing factors for each reportable segment are discussed below in further detail. selling, general and administrative expenses for the company's temporary and consultant staffing division were $1.22 billion for the year ended december 31, 2018 , increasing by 7.6% from $1.14 billion for the year ended december 31, 2017 . as a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses for temporary and consultant staffing were 28.3% in 2018 , down slightly from 28.4% in 2017 . selling, general and administrative expenses for the company's permanent placement staffing division were $420 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 , increasing by 16.5% from $361 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 . as a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses for permanent placement staffing services were 82.1% for both the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017 . selling, general and administrative expenses for the company's risk consulting and internal audit services division were $176 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 , increasing by 19.1% from $148 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 . as a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses for risk consulting and internal audit services were 18.4% in 2018 , up from 18.1% in 2017 . for 2018 compared to 2017 , the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue is primarily due to an increase in variable overhead costs. operating income . the company's total operating income was $589 million , or 10.2% of revenues, for the year ended december 31, 2018 , up 13.9% from $517 million , or 9.8% of revenues, for the year ended december 31, 2017 . for the company's temporary and consultant staffing division, operating income was $405 million , or 9.3% of applicable revenues, up 13.8% from $356 million , or 8.9% of applicable revenues, in 2017 . for the company's permanent placement staffing division, operating income was $91 million , or 17.7% of applicable revenues, up 16.9% from operating income of $77 million , or 17.7% of applicable revenues, in 2017 . for the company's risk consulting and internal audit services division, operating income was $93 million , or 9.7% of applicable revenues, up 11.2% from operating income of $84 million , or 10.3% of applicable revenues, in 2017 . provision for income taxes. the provision for income taxes was 26.6% and 43.9% for the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. the lower 2018 tax rate is primarily due to the reduction of the u.s. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% and a prior year $34 million one-time, non-cash charge to the provision for income taxes related to the enactment of tcja. years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016 revenues . the company's revenues were $5.27 billion for the year ended december 31, 2017, increasing by 0.3% compared to $5.25 billion for the year ended december 31, 2016. revenues from foreign operations represented 22% and 20% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. the company analyzes its revenues for three reportable segments: temporary and consultant staffing, permanent placement staffing and risk consulting and internal audit services. in 2017, revenues for permanent placement staffing and risk consulting and internal audit services were up and revenues for temporary and consultant staffing were down slightly compared to 2016. revenue growth was strongest internationally, most notably within europe. contributing factors for each reportable segment are discussed below in further detail. temporary and consultant staffing revenues were $4.01 billion for the year ended december 31, 2017, remained essentially flat compared to revenues of $4.03 billion for the year ended december 31, 2016. key drivers of temporary and consultant staffing revenues include average hourly bill rates and the number of hours worked by the company's temporary employees on client engagements. on an as adjusted basis, temporary and consultant staffing revenues decreased 0.3% for 2017, compared to 2016, due primarily to fewer hours worked by the company's temporary employees, partially offset by a 2.7% increase in average bill rates. in the u.s., 2017 revenues decreased 3.1% on an as reported basis and 2.8% on an as 18 adjusted basis, compared to 2016. for the company's international operations, 2017 revenues increased 11.0% on an as reported basis and 10.1% on an as adjusted basis, compared to 2016. permanent placement staffing revenues were $439 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, increasing by 4.7% compared to revenues of $419 million for the year ended december 31, 2016. key drivers of permanent placement staffing revenues consist of the number of candidate placements and average fees earned per placement. on an as adjusted basis, permanent placement staffing revenues increased 4.9% for 2017 compared to 2016 due to increases in both the number of placements and average fees per placement. in the u.s., 2017 revenues increased 0.9% on an as reported basis and 1.3% on an as adjusted basis, compared to 2016. for the company's international operations, 2017 revenues increased 14.1% on an as reported basis, and on an as adjusted basis increased 13.5%, compared to 2016. historically, demand for permanent placement services is even more sensitive to economic and labor market conditions than demand for temporary and consulting staffing and this is expected to continue. risk consulting and internal audit services revenues were $817 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, increasing by 1.5% compared to revenues of $804 million for the year ended december 31, 2016. key drivers of risk consulting and internal audit services revenues are the billable hours worked by consultants on client engagements and average hourly bill rates. on an as adjusted basis, risk consulting and internal audit services revenues increased 1.9% for 2017 compared to 2016, driven primarily by increases in billable hours and billing rates. in the u.s., 2017 revenues remained essentially flat on an as reported basis, and increased 0.3% on an as adjusted basis, compared to 2016. for the company's international operations, 2017 revenues increased 9.5% on an as reported basis, or 10.2% on an as adjusted basis, compared to 2016. a reconciliation of the non-gaap year-over-year revenue growth rates to the as reported year-over-year revenue growth rates for the year ended december 31, 2017, is presented in the following table: global united states international temporary and consultant staffing as reported -0.4 % -3.1 % 11.0 % billing days impact 0.4 % 0.3 % 0.5 % currency impact -0.3 % -1.4 % as adjusted -0.3 % -2.8 % 10.1 % permanent placement staffing as reported 4.7 % 0.9 % 14.1 % billing days impact 0.5 % 0.4 % 0.4 % currency impact -0.3 % -1.0 % as adjusted 4.9 % 1.3 % 13.5 % risk consulting and internal audit services as reported 1.5 % 9.5 % billing days impact 0.4 % 0.3 % 0.4 % currency impact 0.3 % as adjusted 1.9 % 0.3 % 10.2 % gross margin . the company's gross margin dollars were $2.16 billion for both the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016. contributing factors for each reportable segment are discussed below in further detail. g ross margin dollars for temporary and consultant staffing represent revenues less direct costs of services, which consist of payroll, payroll taxes and benefit costs for temporary employees, and reimbursable expenses. the key drivers of gross margin are: i) pay/bill spreads, which represent the differential between wages paid to temporary employees and amounts billed to clients; ii) fringe costs, which are primarily composed of payroll taxes and benefit costs for temporary and consultant staffing employees; and iii) conversion revenues, which are earned when a temporary position converts to a permanent position with the company's client. gross margin dollars for the company's temporary and consultant staffing division were $1.49 billion for the year ended december 31, 2017, down 1.1% from $1.51 billion for the year ended december 31, 2016. as a percentage of revenues, gross margin dollars for temporary and consultant staffing were 37.2% in 2017, down from 37.5% in 2016. this year- over-year decline in gross margin percentage is primarily attributable to higher workers' compensation costs and other fringe benefit costs. the company's 2017 results include $0.9 million in workers' compensation credits, pursuant to third-party 19 actuarial reviews of the company's workers' compensation accruals. this compares to a credit of $5.8 million in the year-ago period. g ross margin dollars for permanent placement staffing represent revenues less reimbursable expenses. gross margin dollars for the company's permanent placement staffing division were $438 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, up 4.7% from $419 million for the year ended december 31, 2016. because reimbursable expenses for permanent placement staffing services are de minimis, the increase in gross margin dollars is substantially explained by the increase in revenues previously discussed. g ross margin dollars for risk consulting and internal audit services represent revenues less direct costs of services, which consist primarily of professional staff payroll, payroll taxes, benefit costs and reimbursable expenses. the primary drivers of risk consulting and internal audit services gross margin are: i) the relative composition of and number of professional staff and their respective pay and bill rates; and ii) staff utilization, which is the relationship of time spent on client engagements in proportion to the total time available for the company's risk consulting and internal audit services staff. gross margin dollars for the company's risk consulting and internal audit division were $232 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, up 0.2% from $231 million for the year ended december 31, 2016. as a percentage of revenues, gross margin dollars for risk consulting and internal audit services were 28.4% in 2017, down from 28.7% in 2016. the decline in 2017 gross margin percentage compared to 2016 was primarily due to slightly lower staff utilization rates. selling, general and administrative expenses . the company's selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of staff compensation, advertising, depreciation and occupancy costs. the company's selling, general and administrative expenses were $1.65 billion for the year ended december 31, 2017, up 2.5% from $1.61 billion for the year ended december 31, 2016. as a percentage of revenues, the company's selling, general and administrative expenses were 31.3% for 2017, up from 30.6% for 2016. contributing factors for each reportable segment are discussed below in further detail. elling, general and administrative expenses for the company's temporary and consultant staffing division were $1.14 billion for the year ended december 31, 2017, up 1.9% from $1.12 billion for the year ended december 31, 2016. as a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses for temporary and consultant staffing were 28.4% in 2017, up from 27.7% in 2016. for 2017 compared to 2016, the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue is primarily due to increases in staff compensation costs and costs expensed related to digital technology initiatives. elling, general and administrative expenses for the company's permanent placement staffing division were $361 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, up 6.5% from $339 million for the year ended december 31, 2016. as a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses for permanent placement staffing services were 82.1% in 2017, up from 80.7% in 2016. for 2017 compared to 2016, the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue is primarily due to increases in staff compensation costs and costs expensed related to digital technology initiatives. selling, general and administrative expenses for the company's risk consulting and internal audit services division were $148 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, down 1.7% from $150 million for the year ended december 31, 2016. as a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses for risk consulting and internal audit services were 18.1% in 2017, down from 18.7% in 2016. for 2017 compared to 2016, the decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue is primarily due to decreases in fixed overhead costs. operating income . the company's total operating income was $517 million, or 9.8% of revenues, for the year ended december 31, 2017, down 6.7% from $555 million, or 10.6% of revenues, for the year ended december 31, 2016. for the company's temporary and consultant staffing division, operating income was $356 million, or 8.9% of applicable revenues, down 9.7% from $394 million, or 9.8% of applicable revenues, in 2016. for the company's permanent placement staffing division, operating income was $77 million, or 17.7% of applicable revenues, down 2.9% from operating income of $80 million, or 19.1% of applicable revenues, in 2016. for the company's risk consulting and internal audit services division, operating income was $84 million, or 10.3% of applicable revenues, up 3.9% from operating income of $81 million, or 10% of applicable revenues, in 2016. provision for income taxes. the provision for income taxes was 43.9% and 38.0% for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. the increase is primarily due to the $34 million one-time, non-cash charge resulting from the recently enacted tcja. 20 liquidity and capital resources the change in the company's liquidity during the years ended december 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , is primarily the net effect of funds generated by operations and the funds used for capital expenditures, repurchases of common stock, payment of dividends, and payments to trusts for employee deferred compensation plans. cash and cash equivalents were $277 million , $295 million , and $260 million at december 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , respectively. operating activities provided $572 million during the year ended december 31, 2018 , offset by $89 million and $490 million of net cash used in investing activities and financing activities, respectively. operating activities provided $453 million during the year ended december 31, 2017 , offset by $78 million and $353 million of net cash used in investing activities and financing activities, respectively. operating activities provided $442 million during the year ended december 31, 2016 , offset by $112 million and $288 million of net cash used in investing activities and financing activities, respectively. operating activities net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2018 , was $572 million . this was composed of net income of $434 million adjusted upward for non-cash items of $107 million and net cash provided by changes in working capital of $31 million . net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2017 , was composed of net income of $291 million adjusted upward for non-cash items of $160 million and net cash provided by changes in working capital of $2 million . net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2016 , was composed of net income of $343 million adjusted upward for non-cash items of $113 million, offset by net cash used in changes in working capital of $14 million. investing activities cash used in investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2018 , was $89 million . this was composed of capital expenditures of $43 million and deposits to trusts for employee deferred compensation plans of $46 million . cash used in investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2017 , was $78 million . this was primarily composed of capital expenditures of $41 million , deposits to trusts for employee deferred compensation plans of $36 million , and payment for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, of $1 million . cash used in investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2016 , was $112 million. this was primarily composed of capital expenditures of $83 million, deposits to trusts for employee deferred compensation plans of $27 million, and payment for an acquisition, net of cash acquired, of $2 million . financing activities cash used in financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2018 , was $490 million . this included repurchases of $354 million in common stock and $136 million in cash dividends paid to stockholders. cash used in financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2017 , was $353 million . this included repurchases of $232 million in common stock and $121 million in cash dividends paid to stockholders. cash used in financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2016 , was $288 million. this included repurchases of $176 million in common stock and $114 million in cash dividends paid to stockholders, offset by the excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $2 million. as of december 31, 2018 , the company is authorized to repurchase, from time to time, up to 6.7 million additional shares of the company's common stock on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, depending on market conditions. during the years ended december 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , the company repurchased approximately 5.6 million shares, 4.0 million shares and 4.0 million shares of common stock on the open market for a total cost of $351 million, $197 million and $164 million, respectively. additional stock repurchases were made in connection with employee stock plans, whereby company shares were tendered by employees for the payment of exercise price and applicable statutory withholding taxes. during the years ended december 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , such repurchases totaled approximately 0.2 million shares, 0.4 million shares and 0.4 million shares at a cost of $14 million, $20 million and $15 million, respectively. repurchases of shares have been funded with cash generated from operations. the company's working capital at december 31, 2018 , included $277 million in cash and cash equivalents. the company expects that internally generated cash will be sufficient to support the working capital needs of the company, the company's fixed payments, dividends, and other obligations on both a short-term and long-term basis. on february 12, 2019, the company announced a quarterly dividend of $.31 per share to be paid to all shareholders of record on february 25, 2019. the dividend will be paid on march 15, 2019. 21 the company's cash flows generated from operations are also the primary source for funding various contractual obligations. the table below summarizes the company's major commitments as of december 31, 2018 (in thousands): payments due by period contractual obligations 2019 2020 and 2021 2022 and 2023 thereafter total long-term debt obligations $ 252 $ 505 $ $ $ 757 operating lease obligations 88,231 143,363 84,834 52,993 369,421 purchase obligations 57,347 52,553 4,074 9,621 123,595 other liabilities 1,538 1,150 813 6,767 10,268 total $ 147,368 $ 197,571 $ 89,721 $ 69,381 $ 504,041 long-term debt obligations consist of promissory notes and related interest as well as other forms of indebtedness issued in connection with certain acquisitions and other payment obligations. operating lease obligations consist of minimum rental commitments for 2019 and thereafter under non-cancelable leases in effect at december 31, 2018 . purchase obligations consist of purchase commitments primarily related to telecom service agreements, software subscriptions, and computer hardware and software maintenance agreements. other liabilities consist of asset retirement and deferred compensation obligations. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk because a portion of the company's net revenues are derived from its operations outside the u.s. and are denominated in local currencies, the company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations. the company's exposure to foreign currency exchange rates relates primarily to the company's foreign subsidiaries. exchange rates impact the u.s. dollar value of the company's reported revenues, expenses, earnings, assets and liabilities. for the year ended december 31, 2018 , approximately 24% of the company's revenues were generated outside of the united states. these operations transact business in their functional currency, which is the same as their local currency. as a result, fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar, particularly the canadian dollar, british pound, euro, and australian dollar have an impact on the company's reported results. under gaap, revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into u.s. dollars at the monthly average exchange rates prevailing during the period. consequently, as the value of the u.s. dollar changes relative to the currencies of the company's non-u.s. markets, the company's reported results vary. during 2018 , the u.s. dollar fluctuated, but generally weakened, against the primary currencies in which the company conducts business, compared to one year ago. currency exchange rates had the effect of increasing reported net service revenues by $27 million, or 0.5%, in 2018 compared to prior year. the general weakening of the u.s. dollar also affected the reported level of expenses incurred in the company's foreign operations. because substantially all of the company's foreign operations generated revenues and incurred expenses within the same country and currency, the effect of higher reported revenues is largely offset by the increase in reported operating expenses. reported net income was $2.5 million, or 0.9%, higher in the year ended december 31, 2018 , compared to prior year due to the effect of currency exchange rates. for the month ended january 31, 2019, the u.s. dollar weakened against the euro, british pound, canadian dollar, and australian dollar. if currency exchange rates were to remain at january 2019 levels throughout 2019 , the company's 2019 full-year reported revenues would be impacted favorably, mostly offset by an unfavorable impact to operating expenses. thus, the impact to reported net income would likely be immaterial. fluctuations in currency exchange rates impact the u.s. dollar amount of the company's stockholders' equity. the assets and liabilities of the company's non-u.s. subsidiaries are translated into u.s. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at period end. the resulting translation adjustments are recorded in stockholders' equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. although currency fluctuations impact the company's reported results and shareholders' equity, such fluctuations generally do not affect cash flow or result in actual economic gains or losses. the company generally has few cross-border transfers of funds, except for transfers to the u.s. for payment of intercompany loans, working capital loans made between the u.s. and the company's foreign subsidiaries, and dividends from the company's foreign subsidiaries. 22