risk factors 12 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 17risk factors 13 risk factors changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition people united financial makes most of its earnings based on the difference between interest it earns compared to interest it pays. this difference is called the interest spread. people united financial earns interest on loans and to a much lesser extent on securities and short-term investments. these are called interest-earning assets. people united financial pays interest on some forms of deposits and on funds it borrows from other sources. these are called interest-bearing liabilities. people united financial interest spread can change depending on when interest rates earned on interest-earning assets change, compared to when interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities change. some rate changes occur while these assets or liabilities are still on people united financial books. other rate changes 13 table of contents occur when these assets or liabilities mature and are replaced by new interest-earning assets or interest-bearing liabilities at different rates. it may be difficult to replace interest-earning assets quickly, since customers may not want to borrow money when interest rates are high, or people united financial may not be able to make loans that meet its lending standards. people united financial interest spread may also change based on the mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. people united financial interest spread may be lower if the timing of interest rate changes is different for its interest-earning assets compared to its interest-bearing liabilities. for example, if interest rates go down, people united financial will earn less on its interest-earning assets while it is still locked in to paying higher rates on its interest-bearing liabilities. on the other hand, if interest rates go up, people united financial might have to pay more on its interest-bearing liabilities while it is still locked in to receiving lower rates on its interest-earning assets. people united financial manages this risk using many different techniques. if it is not successful in managing this risk, people united financial will probably be less profitable. changes in our asset quality could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition asset quality measures the performance of a borrower in repaying a loan, with interest, on time. it is unlikely that our asset quality will stay as strong as it has been for the past several years, particularly if the economy deteriorates. we may not be able to successfully implement our plans for growth during 2007, people united financial opened one traditional branch and one stop &amp; shop branch, both in connecticut, and two traditional branches in westchester county, new york. people united financial plans to continue its branch expansion by opening traditional and stop &amp; shop branches in connecticut and traditional branches in new york. in addition, we will consider expansion opportunities such as the acquisition of branches and other financial institutions, although we do not have any current understandings, agreements or arrangements for expansion by the acquisition of any branches or other financial institutions. significant changes in interest rates or the competition we face may make it difficult to attract the level of customer deposits needed to fund our internal growth at projected levels. in addition, people united financial may have difficulty finding suitable sites for de novo branches. our expansion plans may result in people united financial opening branches in geographic markets in which it has no previous experience. our ability to grow effectively in those markets will be dependent on our ability to identify and retain personnel familiar with the new markets. any future acquisitions of branches or of other financial institutions would present many challenges associated with integrating merged institutions and expanding operations. our profitability may suffer if we do not continue to experience the type of growth that we have in the past, if we do not adequately and profitably implement our plans for growth or if we incur additional expenditures beyond current projections to support our growth. the success of our stop &amp; shop branches depends on the success of the stop &amp; shop brand one element of our strategy is to focus on increasing deposits by providing a wide range of convenient services to our customers. an integral component of this strategy is people united financial supermarket banking initiative, pursuant to which, as of december 31, 2007, people united financial has established 75 full-service stop &amp; shop branches that provide customers with the convenience of seven-day-a-week banking. at december 31, 2007, 47% of people united financial branches were located in stop &amp; shop supermarkets. people united financial currently has exclusive branching rights in stop &amp; shop supermarkets in the state of connecticut, in the form of a license agreement between the stop &amp; shop supermarket company and people united financial, which provides for the leasing of space to people united financial within stop &amp; shop supermarkets for branch use. under the terms of the license agreement, people united financial generally 14 table of contents is required to open a branch in each new connecticut stop &amp; shop supermarket (up to a maximum of 120 supermarkets) that has either (1) a total square footage of greater than 45,000 square feet or (2) if less than 45,000 square feet in size, the store has projected customers of at least 15,000 per week. people united financial has the exclusive right to branch in these supermarkets until 2012, provided that people united financial does not default on its obligations under the licensing agreement. people united financial has the option to extend the license agreement until 2022. stop &amp; shop is currently the leading grocery store in connecticut, with nearly twice the market share of its closest competitor, according to modern grocer. the success of people united financial supermarket branches is dependent, in part, on the success of the stop &amp; shop supermarkets in which they are located. a drop in stop &amp; shop market share, a decrease in the number of stop &amp; shop locations or customers, or a decline in the overall quality of stop &amp; shop supermarkets could result in decreased business for the stop &amp; shop branches, in the form of fewer loan originations, lower deposit generation and fewer overall branch transactions, and could influence market perception of people united financial stop &amp; shop supermarket branches as convenient banking locations. under the terms of the license agreement, people united financial has the obligation to open branches in new connecticut stop &amp; shop locations through 2012, even if stop &amp; shop market share declines or the value of the stop &amp; shop brand is diminished. in addition, people united financial may not be able to renew or renegotiate the license agreement with stop &amp; shop beyond 2022. if renewal or renegotiation of the license agreement were unsuccessful, people would be forced to find new locations for and relocate the stop &amp; shop branches, or to close those branches and transfer the affected customer accounts to other people united financial branches, either of which would involve significant expense and the possible loss of customer relationships. we depend on our executive officers and key personnel to continue the implementation of our long-term business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services we believe that our continued growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management team. the competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. the loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers and key personnel could impair our ability to continue to develop and execute our business strategy. our business is affected by the international, national, regional and local economy generally, and the geographic concentration of our loan portfolio and lending activities makes us vulnerable to a downturn in the local economy changes in international, national, regional and local economic conditions affect our business. if economic conditions change significantly or quickly, our business operations could suffer, and we could become weaker financially as a result. at december 31, 2007, approximately 72% of people united financial loans by outstanding principal amount were to people and businesses located in the state of connecticut, or involved property located here and all but two of its branches are located in connecticut. how well we perform depends very much on the health of the connecticut economy, and we expect that to remain true for the foreseeable future. last year, connecticut residents, on average, earned more than the residents of any other state in the country. our state unemployment rate for december 2007 was 5.0%, the same as the national rate. a very low unemployment rate usually means that businesses have a hard time finding qualified workers, and will have to pay them more if it can find them. businesses that can not find workers or that have to pay higher wages might decide not to stay in connecticut, or to send work outside the state. someone deciding where to locate a new business or to expand an existing business might decide to go somewhere outside connecticut. 15 table of contents if the general economic situation deteriorates, or there are negative trends in the stock market, the connecticut economy could suffer more than the national economy. this would be especially likely in fairfield county, where people united financial has many of its branches and where many of its customers reside, because of the large number of fairfield county residents who are professionals in the financial services industry. people united financial could experience losses in its real estate-related loan portfolios if the prices for housing and other kinds of real estate decreased significantly in connecticut. even though connecticut (especially fairfield county) has some of the highest housing prices in the country, property values can decrease. this has happened before (as recently as the early 1990s), and can happen again. in addition, our ability to continue to originate real estate loans may be impaired by adverse changes in the local and regional economic conditions in these real estate markets. decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for our loans. adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. in addition, if poor economic conditions result in decreased demand for real estate loans, our profits may decrease because our alternative investments may earn less income for us than real estate loans. during 2007, there has been a decline in the housing and real estate markets and in the general economy, both nationally and locally with some reports indicating that the national economy is bordering on a recession. housing market conditions in the northeast quadrant of the united states, where most of our lending activity occurs, have deteriorated during 2007 as evidenced by reduced levels of sales, increasing inventories of houses on the market, declining house prices and an increase in the length of time houses remain on the market. no assurance can be given that these conditions will improve or will not worsen or that such conditions will not result in a decrease in our interest income, an increase in our non-performing loans, an increase in our provision for loan losses or an adverse impact on our loan losses. the second half of 2007 has been highlighted by significant disruption and volatility in the financial and capital marketplaces. this turbulence has been attributable to a variety of factors, including the fallout associated with the sub-prime mortgage market. one aspect of this fallout has been significant deterioration in the activity of the secondary residential mortgage market. the disruptions have been exacerbated by the acceleration of the decline of the real estate and housing market. no assurance can be given that these conditions will improve or will not worsen or that such conditions will not result in a decrease in our interest income or an adverse impact on our loan losses. in response to competitive pressures, our costs could increase if we were required to increase our service and convenience levels or our margins could decrease if we were required to increase deposit rates or lower interest rates on loans people united financial faces significant competition for deposits and loans. in deciding where to deposit their money, many people look first at the interest rate they will earn. they also might think about whether the bank offers other kinds of services they might need and, if they have ever been a customer of the bank before, what their experience was like. people also like convenience, so the number of offices and banking hours may be important. some people also think that on-line services are important. people united financial competes with other banks, credit unions, brokerage firms and money market funds for deposits. some people may decide to buy bonds or similar kinds of investments issued by companies or by the u.s., state and local governments and agencies, instead of opening a deposit account. in making decisions about loans, many people look first at the interest rate they will have to pay. they also think about any extra fees they might have to pay in order to get the loan. some people also think about whether 16 table of contents the bank offers other kinds of services they might need and, if they have ever been a customer of the bank before, what their experience was like. many business loans are more complicated because there may not be a standard kind of loan that meets all of the customer needs. business borrowers look at many different factors that are not all financial in nature. examples include the kind and amount of security the lender wants and other terms of the loan that do not involve the interest rate. people united financial competes with other banks, credit unions, credit card issuers, finance companies, mortgage lenders and mortgage brokers for loans. insurance companies also compete with people united financial for some kinds of commercial loans. many of people united financial competitors have branches in the same market area as it does. some of them are much larger than it is. connecticut, and especially fairfield county, is an attractive banking market. many locally-based banks have been acquired by large regional and national companies in the last several years. we expect this trend to continue. this means that there are not as many competitors in our market as there used to be, but the ones that are left are usually bigger and have more resources than the ones they acquired. people united financial also has competition from outside its own market area. a bank that does not have any branches in connecticut can still have customers here by providing banking services on-line. it costs money to set up and maintain a branch system. banks that do not spend as much money as people united financial does on branches might be more profitable than it is, even if they pay higher interest on deposits and charge lower interest on loans. changes in federal and state regulation could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition the banking business is heavily regulated by the federal and state governments. banking laws and rules are for the most part intended to protect depositors, not stockholders. banking laws and rules can change at any time. the government agencies responsible for supervising people united financial business can also change the way they interpret these laws and rules, even if the rules themselves do not change. we need to make sure that our business activities comply with any changes in these rules or the interpretation of the rules. we might be less profitable if we have to change the way we conduct business in order to comply. our business might suffer in other ways as well. changes in state and federal tax laws can make our business less profitable. changes in the accounting rules we are required to follow may also make us less profitable. changes in the government economic and monetary policies may hurt our ability to compete for deposits and loans. changes in these policies can also make it more expensive for us to do business. the government agencies responsible for supervising our business can take drastic action if they think we are not conducting business safely or are too weak financially. they can force people united financial to hold additional capital, pay higher deposit insurance premiums, stop paying dividends, stop making certain kinds of loans or stop offering certain kinds of deposits. if the agencies took any of these steps or other similar steps, it would probably make our business less profitable. the office of thrift supervision letter dated july 3, 2006 approving, among other things, people united bank conversion from a connecticut savings bank to a federal savings bank, granted people united bank (1) a phase-in period of three years from the date of its conversion to a federal savings bank, august 18, 2006, to comply with the home owners loan act commercial loan limits, with the ability to seek an additional one-year extension if necessary; and (2) an exception from the qualified thrift lender test for a period of four years from the date of its conversion to a federal charter. the manner in which the office of thrift supervision interprets or applies its phase-in period can also make it more expensive for us to do business, make our business less profitable and limit our strategic flexibility. 17 table of contents if people united financial allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease people united financial is exposed to the risk that customers will not be able to repay their loans. this risk is inherent in the lending business. there is also the risk that the customer collateral will not be sufficient to cover the balance of their loan, as underlying collateral values fluctuate with market changes. people united financial records an allowance for loan losses to cover probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio. the allowance for loan losses is established through provisions for loan losses charged to income. losses on loans, including impaired loans, are charged to provision expense or to the allowance for loan losses when all or a portion of a loan is deemed to be uncollectible. recoveries of loans previously charged off are credited to the allowance for loan losses when realized. people united financial maintains the allowance for loan losses at a level that it believes is adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio, based on a quarterly evaluation of a variety of factors. these factors include, but are not limited to: its historical loan loss experience and recent trends in that experience; risk ratings assigned by lending personnel to commercial real estate, commercial and people capital and leasing company loans, and the results of ongoing reviews of those ratings by its independent loan review function; an evaluation of non-performing loans and related collateral values; the probability of loss in view of geographic and industry concentrations and other portfolio risk characteristics; the present financial condition of borrowers; and current economic conditions. while people united financial seeks to use the best available information to make these evaluations, and at december 31, 2007, management believed that the allowance for loan losses was adequate to cover probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio, it is possible that borrower defaults could exceed the current estimates for loan losses, which would reduce earnings. in addition, future increases to the allowance for loan losses may be necessary based on changes in economic conditions, results of regulatory examinations, further information obtained regarding known problem loans, increasing charge-offs of existing problem loans, or the identification of additional problem loans and other factors, which would also reduce earnings. people united financial may fail to successfully integrate chittenden operations and realize all of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. on january 1, 2008, people united financial acquired the chittenden corporation and its six subsidiary banks. the ultimate success of the acquisition will depend, in part, on the ability of people united financial to realize the anticipated benefits from combining the businesses of people united financial and chittenden. however, to realize these anticipated benefits, people united financial must successfully combine the businesses of people united financial and chittenden. if people united financial is not able to achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. people united financial has not previously integrated an institution as large as chittenden, and as a general matter has not been active as an acquirer of other financial institutions. it is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each company ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. integration efforts will also divert management attention and resources. these integration matters could have an adverse effect on the combined company going forward. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 21 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the information required by this item appears on pages 70 through 72. 21 table of contents item 6. selected financial data as of and for the years ended december 31 (dollars in millions, except per share data) 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 operating data: net interest income - fte $ 486.6 $ 382.4 $ 370.0 $ 327.4 $ 284.3 provision for loan losses 8.0 3.4 8.6 13.3 16.7 fee-based revenues 154.4 153.0 151.5 142.9 143.0 net security gains (losses) 5.5 (27.2 ) (0.1 ) (4.7 ) (0.6 ) all other non-interest income (1) 25.5 21.6 21.9 13.5 23.9 non-interest expense (2) 439.3 346.9 344.4 479.7 346.0 income (loss) from continuing operations 149.2 121.7 125.9 (5.6 ) 62.7 income from discontinued operations (3) 1.5 2.3 11.2 205.3 1.1 net income 150.7 124.0 137.1 199.7 63.8 selected statistical data: net interest margin 4.12 % 3.87 % 3.68 % 3.33 % 2.89 % return on average assets (4) 1.18 1.15 1.27 1.86 0.54 return on average stockholders equity (4) 4.2 9.4 11.1 17.6 6.6 efficiency ratio 56.1 61.3 62.8 69.2 76.4 financial condition data: total assets $ 13,555 $ 10,687 $ 10,933 $ 10,718 $ 11,672 loans 8,950 9,372 8,573 7,933 7,105 securities, net 61 77 1,363 2,071 2,405 short-term investments 3,516 225 57 24 72 allowance for loan losses 73 74 75 73 71 deposits 8,881 9,083 9,083 8,862 8,714 core deposits 8,836 9,040 8,954 8,756 8,519 borrowings 4 295 341 1,516 purchased funds 45 47 424 447 1,711 subordinated notes 65 65 109 122 253 stockholders equity 4,445 1,340 1,289 1,200 1,002 non-performing assets 26 23 22 29 34 ratios: non-performing assets to total loans, real estate owned and repossessed assets 0.29 % 0.24 % 0.26 % 0.36 % 0.48 % net loan charge-offs to average loans 0.10 0.05 0.07 0.15 0.22 allowance for loan losses to total loans 0.81 0.79 0.87 0.91 0.99 average stockholders equity to average total assets 28.1 12.3 11.5 10.6 8.2 stockholders equity to total assets 32.8 12.5 11.8 11.2 8.6 tangible stockholders equity to tangible assets 32.3 11.7 10.9 10.3 7.7 total risk-based capital (5) 33.4 16.1 16.4 16.7 13.1 per common share data: (6) basic earnings per share $ 0.52 $ 0.42 $ 0.46 $ 0.68 $ 0.22 diluted earnings per share 0.52 0.41 0.46 0.68 0.22 cash dividends paid per share (7) 0.52 0.46 0.40 0.36 0.32 dividend payout ratio (7) 87.0 % 48.3 % 38.3 % 22.9 % 63.7 % book value (end of period) $ 15.43 $ 4.49 $ 4.33 $ 4.06 $ 3.42 tangible book value (end of period) 15.07 4.13 3.98 3.69 3.03 stock price: high 22.81 21.62 16.07 14.12 7.20 low 14.78 14.29 11.42 6.88 5.13 close (end of period) 17.80 21.25 14.79 12.35 6.89 22 table of contents (1) includes an $8.1 million gain on sale of branches in 2005. (2) includes a $60.0 million contribution to the people united community foundation in 2007 and liability restructuring costs of $2.7 million, $133.4 million and $1.2 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. (3) includes after-tax gains of $6.2 million in 2005 and $198.5 million in 2004 related to the sale of the credit card business in march 2004. (4) calculated based on net income for all years. (5) calculated for people united bank in accordance with office of thrift supervision regulations for all periods since december 31, 2006 and federal deposit insurance corporation regulations for all prior periods. (6) common share data has been adjusted (except dividend payout ratio) to reflect the exchange of shares of people united bank common stock for 2.1 shares of people united financial, inc. common stock upon completing the second-step conversion in april 2007. (7) reflects the waiver of dividends on the substantial majority of the common shares owned by people mutual holdings prior to completing the second-step conversion in april 2007. 23 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations forward-looking statements periodic and other filings made by people united financial with the securities and exchange commission pursuant to the securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act ) may from time to time contain information and statements that are forward-looking in nature. such filings include the annual report on form 10-k, quarterly report on form 10-q and current report on form 8-k, and may include other forms such as proxy statements. other written or oral statements made by people united financial or its representatives from time to time may also contain forward-looking statements. in general, forward-looking statements usually use words such as may, believe, expect, anticipate, should, plan, estimate, predict, continue and potential or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, estimates with respect to people united financial financial condition, results of operations and business that are subject to various factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from these estimates. forward-looking statements represent management beliefs, based upon information available at the time the statements are made, with regard to the matters addressed; they are not guarantees of future performance. all forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause people united financial actual results or financial condition to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such statements. factors of particular importance to people united financial include, but are not limited to: (1) changes in general, national or regional economic conditions; (2) changes in interest rates; (3) changes in loan default and charge-off rates; (4) changes in deposit levels; (5) changes in levels of income and expense in non-interest income and expense related activities; (6) residential mortgage and secondary market activity; (7) changes in accounting and regulatory guidance applicable to banks; (8) price levels and conditions in the public securities markets generally; (9) competition and its effect on pricing, spending, third-party relationships and revenues; and (10) the successful integration of chittenden corporation. all forward-looking statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. people united financial does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. general people united financial, inc. ( people united financial ) is a savings and loan holding company incorporated under the state laws of delaware and the holding company for people united bank. on april 16, 2007, people united financial, people bank and people mutual holdings completed their second-step conversion from a mutual holding company structure to a fully-public stock holding company structure. see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of the second-step conversion. people united financial had not engaged in any business through march 31, 2007; accordingly, the financial information for periods prior to march 31, 2007 is that of people bank. on june 6, 2007, people bank changed its name to people united bank. the name people united bank is used to refer to the bank both before and after the name change. people united financial is registered with the office of thrift supervision (the ots ) and subject to ots regulation, examination, supervision and reporting requirements. people united bank is a federally-chartered stock savings bank headquartered in bridgeport, connecticut with $12.1 billion in total assets as of december 31, 2007. people united bank was organized in 1842 as a mutual savings bank and converted to stock form in 1988. in august 2006, people united bank converted from a connecticut-chartered stock savings bank to a federally-chartered stock savings bank. 24 table of contents deposits are insured up to applicable limits by the deposit insurance fund of the federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ). people united bank regulator is the ots. the principal business of people united financial is to provide, through people united bank and its subsidiaries, a full range of financial services to individual, corporate and municipal customers. traditional banking activities are conducted primarily within the state of connecticut and include extending secured and unsecured commercial and consumer loans, originating mortgage loans secured by residential and commercial properties, and accepting consumer, commercial and municipal deposits. in addition to traditional banking activities, people united bank provides specialized services tailored to specific markets including: personal, institutional and employee benefit trust; cash management; and municipal banking and finance. through its non-bank subsidiaries, people united bank offers: brokerage, financial advisory services, investment management services and life insurance through people securities, inc. ( psi ); equipment financing through people capital and leasing corp. ( pclc ); and other insurance services through r.c. knox and company, inc. ( rc knox ). this full range of financial services is delivered through a network of 79 traditional branches, 75 full-service stop &amp; shop supermarket branches that provide customers with seven-day-a-week banking, seven limited-service branches, 23 investment and brokerage offices (22 of which are located within branch offices), five wealth management and trust offices, nine pclc offices and six commercial banking offices. people united bank distribution network also includes fully integrated online banking and investment trading, a 24-hour telephone banking service and participation in a worldwide atm network. people united bank has expanded its residential mortgage and home equity lending activities in the contiguous markets of new york and massachusetts. in addition, pclc maintains a sales presence in six states to support its equipment financing operations outside of connecticut. within the commercial banking division, people united bank maintains a national credits group, which seeks to participate in commercial loans and commercial real estate loans to borrowers in various industries on a national scale. people united financial results of operations are largely dependent upon revenues generated through net interest income and fee-based revenues and, to a much lesser extent, other forms of non-interest income such as gains on asset sales. sources for these revenues are diversified across people united financial two primary business segments representing its core businesses, commercial banking and consumer financial services, and to a lesser extent, treasury. people united financial results of operations are also significantly affected by the provision for loan losses and the level of non-interest expense. in addition, people united financial results of operations may also be affected by general and local economic conditions, changes in market interest rates, government policies and actions of regulatory authorities. acquisition of chittenden corporation on january 1, 2008, people united financial completed its acquisition of the chittenden corporation, a multi-bank holding company located in burlington, vermont for total consideration of approximately $1.7 billion. chittenden had total assets of $7.4 billion as of december 31, 2007 and its six banks are located in vermont, new hampshire, massachusetts and maine. the acquisition of chittenden will be accounted for as a purchase and accordingly, chittenden results of operations will be included with people united financial results of operations beginning in 2008. see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. critical accounting policies in preparing the consolidated financial statements, people united financial is required to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, including the classification of revenues and expenses to discontinued operations. actual results could differ from people united financial current estimates, as a result of changing conditions and future events. several estimates are particularly critical and are susceptible to significant near-term change, including the 25 table of contents allowance for loan losses, the valuation of derivative financial instruments, and asset impairment judgments including the recoverability of goodwill and other intangible assets, and other-than-temporary declines in the value of securities. people united financial significant accounting policies and critical estimates are summarized in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. allowance for loan losses. the allowance for loan losses is established through provisions for loan losses charged to income. losses on loans, including impaired loans, are charged to the allowance for loan losses when all or a portion of a loan is deemed to be uncollectible. recoveries of loans previously charged off are credited to the allowance when realized. management maintains the allowance for loan losses at a level that is believed to be adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio, based on a quarterly evaluation of a variety of factors. these factors include, but are not limited to: people united financial historical loan loss experience and recent trends in that experience; risk ratings assigned by lending personnel to commercial real estate finance, commercial and pclc loans, and the results of ongoing reviews of those ratings by people united financial independent loan review function; an evaluation of non-performing loans and related collateral values; the probability of loss in view of geographic and industry concentrations and other portfolio risk characteristics; the present financial condition of borrowers; and current economic conditions. while management seeks to use the best available information to make these evaluations, future adjustments to the allowance for loan losses may be necessary based on changes in economic conditions, results of regulatory examinations, further information obtained regarding known problem loans, the identification of additional problem loans and other factors. the allowance for loan losses consists of amounts determined in accordance with statement of financial accounting standards ( sfas ) no. 5, accounting for contingencies, and sfas no. 114, accounting by creditors for impairment of a loan. in applying sfas no. 5, management considers the factors listed in the preceding paragraph in order to estimate a loss allowance for (1) each homogeneous pool of smaller balance loans (residential mortgage and consumer loans) that are evaluated on a collective basis, and (2) commercial real estate, commercial and pclc loans that are not considered impaired under sfas no. 114. a loan is considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that people united financial will be unable to collect all principal and interest due according to the contractual terms of the loan. people united financial applies sfas no. 114 to loans that are individually evaluated for collectibility in accordance with its normal loan review procedures. under sfas no. 114, impaired loans are reported based on one of three measures: the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan effective interest rate; the loan observable market price; or the fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. if the measure is less than an impaired loan recorded investment, an impairment loss is recognized as part of the allowance for loan losses. valuation of derivative financial instruments. people united financial uses derivatives for market risk management purposes (principally interest rate risk) and not for trading or speculative purposes. in accordance with sfas no. 133, all derivatives are recognized as either assets or liabilities and are measured at fair value. until such time that a derivative is settled, favorable changes in fair values result in unrealized gains that are recognized as assets, while unfavorable changes result in unrealized losses that are recognized as liabilities. people united financial hedge accounting methods vary depending on whether the derivative instrument is classified as a fair value hedge or a cash flow hedge. hedge accounting is permitted only if specific criteria are met, including a requirement that a highly effective relationship exist between the derivative instrument and the hedged item, both at inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis. changes in the fair value of effective fair value hedges are recognized in current earnings. changes in the fair value of effective cash flow hedges are recognized in other comprehensive income until earnings are affected by the variability in cash flows of the designated hedged item. ineffective portions of hedge results are recognized in current earnings. people united financial formally documents all relationships between the derivative instruments and the hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategies for undertaking the hedge transactions. this process includes linking all derivatives that are designated as hedges to specific assets and liabilities, or to 26 table of contents specific firm commitments or forecasted transactions. people united financial also formally assesses, both at inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in the fair values or cash flows of the hedged items. if it is determined that a derivative is not highly effective or has ceased to be a highly effective hedge, people united financial would discontinue hedge accounting prospectively. interest rate-lock commitments extended to borrowers relate to the origination of residential mortgage loans. to mitigate the interest rate risk inherent in these commitments, people united financial enters into mandatory delivery and best efforts contracts to sell adjustable-rate and fixed-rate residential mortgage loans (servicing released). forward commitments to sell and interest rate-lock commitments on residential mortgage loans are considered derivatives and their respective estimated fair values are adjusted based on changes in interest rates and exclude the value of mortgage servicing rights. asset impairment judgments goodwill and other intangible assets. sfas no. 141, business combinations, requires, among other things, use of the purchase method to account for all business combinations and specifies criteria that acquired intangible assets must meet in order to be recognized and reported separately from goodwill. the assets and liabilities of an acquired company are recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition. intangible assets are recognized in an amount equal to the excess of the acquisition cost over the fair value of the net assets acquired. other acquisition-related intangibles are separately identified, where appropriate, for the estimated value of acquired customer relationships and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated remaining average life of those relationships (ranging from 7 to 12 years from the respective acquisition dates). the remaining intangible asset is classified as goodwill. sfas no. 142, goodwill and other intangible assets, requires that goodwill be reviewed for impairment at least annually, with impairment losses charged to expense when they occur. acquisition-related intangible assets other than goodwill are amortized to expense over their estimated useful lives and are periodically reviewed by management to assess recoverability. impairment losses are recognized as a charge to expense if carrying amounts exceed fair values. sfas no. 142 requires that goodwill be tested for impairment using a two-step approach that involves the identification of reporting units and the estimation of fair values. goodwill shall also be tested for impairment when events occur that would more likely than not reduce the implied fair value of goodwill below its carrying value. an impairment loss is recognized as a charge to expense for any excess of the goodwill carrying amount over implied fair value. people united financial uses a discounted cash flow model to estimate the fair value of its reporting units. this model requires the use of long-term planning forecasts and assumptions regarding industry-specific economic conditions that are outside our control. securities. marketable equity and debt securities (other than those reported as short-term investments) are classified as either trading account securities, held to maturity securities (applicable only to debt securities) or available for sale securities. management determines the classification of a security at the time of its purchase. securities purchased for sale in the near term and those held by psi (in accordance with the requirements for a broker-dealer) are classified as trading account securities and reported at fair value. unrealized gains and losses are reported in non-interest income. debt securities that people united financial has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as held to maturity securities and reported at amortized cost. all other securities are classified as available for sale and reported at fair value. unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported on an after-tax basis in stockholders equity as accumulated other comprehensive income or loss. premiums are amortized and discounts are accreted to interest income for debt securities, using the interest method over the remaining period to contractual maturity, adjusted for the effect of actual 27 table of contents prepayments in the case of mortgage-backed securities, collateralized mortgage obligations and other asset-backed securities. federal home loan bank stock is a non-marketable equity security reported at cost. security transactions are generally recorded on the trade date. realized gains and losses are determined using the specific identification method and reported in non-interest income. management conducts a periodic review and evaluation of the securities portfolio to determine if the decline in fair value of any security appears to be other than temporary. if the decline is deemed to be other than temporary, the security is written down to a new cost basis and the resulting loss is reported in non-interest income. the factors considered by management in its periodic review include, but are not limited to: the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost; the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer; the ratings of the security; whether the decline in fair value appears to be issuer specific or, alternatively, a reflection of general market or industry conditions; and people united financial intent and ability to hold the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for a recovery in fair value. non-gaap financial measures and reconciliation to gaap in addition to evaluating people united financial results of operations in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ), management routinely supplements this evaluation with an analysis of certain non-gaap financial measures, such as the efficiency ratio, core deposits and purchased funds. management believes such non-gaap financial measures provide information useful to investors in understanding people united financial underlying operating performance and trends, and facilitates comparisons with the performance of other banks and thrifts. management utilizes core deposits and purchased funds as non-gaap financial measures to supplement its analysis of people united financial business performance. core deposits is a measure of stable funding sources and is defined as total deposits, other than brokered certificates of deposit (acquired in the wholesale market), municipal deposits (which are seasonally variable by nature) and escrow funds from people united financial stock offering (applicable only for 2007 average core deposits). purchased funds include borrowings, brokered certificates of deposit and municipal deposits. although management believes that the above-mentioned non-gaap financial measures enhance investors understanding of people united financial operating performance, these non-gaap financial measures should not be considered an alternative to gaap. the reconciliation of these non-gaap financial measures from gaap to non-gaap is presented below. the following tables provide reconciliations between gaap and non-gaap financial measures: as of december 31 (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 deposits $ 8,881 $ 9,083 $ 9,083 $ 8,862 $ 8,714 less: municipal deposits 45 43 129 106 125 brokered certificates of deposit 70 core deposits $ 8,836 $ 9,040 $ 8,954 $ 8,756 $ 8,519 as of december 31 (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 borrowings $ $ 4 $ 295 $ 341 $ 1,516 plus: municipal deposits 45 43 129 106 125 brokered certificates of deposit 70 purchased funds $ 45 $ 47 $ 424 $ 447 $ 1,711 28 table of contents in addition to the above non-gaap financial measures, management uses the efficiency ratio to monitor its operating efficiency compared to its peers. the efficiency ratio, which represents an approximate measure of the cost required by people united financial to generate a dollar of revenue, is the ratio of total non-interest expense (excluding goodwill impairment charges, amortization of goodwill and acquisition-related intangibles, losses on real estate assets and nonrecurring expenses) (the numerator) to net interest income plus total non-interest income (including the fully taxable equivalent adjustment on bank-owned life insurance income and excluding gains and losses on sales of assets, other than residential mortgage loans, and nonrecurring income) (the denominator). people united financial generally considers an income or expense to be nonrecurring if it is not similar to an income or expense of a type incurred within the last two years and is not similar to an income or expense of a type reasonably expected to be incurred within the following two years. management considers the efficiency ratio to be more representative of people united financial ongoing operating efficiency, as the excluded items are generally related to external market conditions and non-routine transactions. the following table summarizes people united financial efficiency ratio derived from amounts reported in the consolidated statements of income. years ended december 31 (dollars in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 total non-interest expense $ 439.3 $ 346.9 $ 344.4 $ 479.7 $ 346.0 less: contribution to the people united community foundation 60.0 amortization of goodwill and other acquisition-related intangibles 1.0 1.1 1.8 3.4 3.5 loss on sale of reverse repurchase agreements 0.3 severance-related charges 1.2 rc knox settlement 0.9 goodwill impairment charge 2.0 accelerated vesting of stock options charge 0.7 liability restructuring costs 2.7 133.4 1.2 non-recurring compensation costs 6.7 other 1.0 0.3 0.1 1.6 0.2 total $ 377.3 $ 343.1 $ 337.1 $ 334.6 $ 341.1 net interest income (1) $ 486.6 $ 382.4 $ 370.0 $ 327.4 $ 284.3 total non-interest income 185.4 147.4 173.3 151.7 166.3 add: boli fte adjustment (1) 5.7 4.6 1.8 net security losses 27.2 0.1 4.7 0.6 less: net security gains 5.5 interest from completed irs audit 0.6 4.3 gain on sale of assets 0.7 8.1 mastercard common stock redemption 0.7 other 0.3 0.1 0.3 total $ 672.2 $ 559.6 $ 536.8 $ 483.7 $ 446.6 efficiency ratio 56.1 % 61.3 % 62.8 % 69.2 % 76.4 % (1) fully taxable equivalent. 29 table of contents economic environment people united financial results are subject to fluctuations based on economic conditions. economic activity in the united states showed signs of slowing in 2007. real gross domestic product increased at a rate of 2.5% for the year, a decrease from 2.9% in 2006. the national unemployment rate was 5.0% as of december 31, 2007, up from 4.4% at the end of 2006. the national economy continued to grow despite widening federal budget and trade deficits, significant volatility in the financial and capital markets, lower short-term interest rates, elevated energy costs, a weak housing market, and geopolitical uncertainties. in response to a contracting u.s. economy and the significant disruptions in the capital markets primarily caused by the sub-prime mortgage crisis, the federal reserve board lowered the targeted federal funds rate five times from september 2007 to january 2008, by a total of 225 basis points, bringing the rate to 3.00% as of january 30, 2008. the federal reserve had not increased the targeted federal funds rates since the june 29, 2006 federal open market committee (fomc) meeting. people united financial primary market area, connecticut, is one of the most attractive markets in the united states with a total population of approximately 3.6 million and a median household income of $68,430 as of june 30, 2007, ranking second in the united states and well above the u.s. median income of $53,154, according to estimates from snl securities. fairfield county, where people united financial is headquartered, is the wealthiest county in connecticut, with a june 30, 2007 median household income of $84,825 according to estimates from snl securities. the state unemployment rate increased to 5.0% as of december 31, 2007 compared to 4.1% at the end of 2006, and was the same as the national rate. the connecticut economy experienced moderate job growth in 2007, with total employment increasing by 16,600 jobs, or approximately 1.0% from december 31, 2006 to december 31, 2007. the outlook for the connecticut economy in 2008 is cautiously optimistic, with the expectation that the state will experience further job growth as the economy continues to expand moderately. financial overview comparison of financial condition at december 31, 2007 and december 31, 2006. total assets at december 31, 2007 were $13.6 billion, an increase of $2.9 billion, or 27%, from december 31, 2006, primarily due to a $3.3 billion increase in short-term investments, partially offset by a decrease of $422 million in total loans. the increase in short-term investments reflects the net proceeds from the second-step conversion completed on april 16, 2007. the decrease in total loans reflects a decline of $758 million, or 15%, in consumer financial services, partially offset by an increase of $336 million, or 8%, in commercial banking. the decline in consumer financial services was driven by decreases of $687 million, or 18%, in residential mortgage loans and $71 million, or 5%, in consumer loans. the decrease in residential mortgage loans reflects people united bank decision in the fourth quarter of 2006 to sell essentially all of its newly-originated residential mortgage loans due to the low spreads on such loans. the growth in commercial banking reflects increases of $175 million, or 29%, in our national credits portfolio, $112 million, or 13%, in loans originated by pclc, our equipment financing subsidiary, $34 million, or 3%, in commercial lending, and $15 million, or 1%, in commercial real estate loans. non-performing assets totaled $26.1 million at december 31, 2007, a $3.4 million increase from december 31, 2006. increases in non-performing commercial real estate loans of $3.5 million, real estate owned (reo) and repossessed assets of $5.7 million, non-performing pclc loans of $1.0 million and non-performing residential mortgage loans of $2.2 million, were partially offset by a decrease of $10.6 million in non-performing commercial loans. the decrease in non-performing commercial loans primarily reflects the $5.9 million charge-off relating to one commercial banking loan and the subsequent transfer to real estate owned of the real estate securing the remaining loan balance. the allowance for loan losses decreased $1.3 million to $72.7 million 30 table of contents at december 31, 2007 compared to december 31, 2006, reflecting reductions in the allowance for loan losses allocated to the consumer loan portfolios and by net reductions to the commercial banking loan portfolios. at december 31, 2007, the allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans was 0.81% and as a percentage of non-performing loans was 358%, compared to 0.79% and 328%, respectively, at december 31, 2006. at december 31, 2007, liabilities totaled $9.1 billion, a $238 million, or 3%, decrease from december 31, 2006, primarily reflecting a $202 million reduction in total deposits. core deposits decreased $204 million, or 2%, in 2007 compared to 2006, reflecting people united financial strategy to fund loan growth with proceeds from maturities, sales and repayments of securities rather than core deposits. people united financial total stockholders equity was $4.4 billion at december 31, 2007, a $3.1 billion net increase from december 31, 2006, reflecting the net proceeds of $3.3 billion from the second-step conversion and net income of $150.7 million, partially offset by the purchases of people united financial common stock for the employee stock ownership plan (the esop ) of $216.8 million and the 2007 recognition and retention plan of $127.1 million, and dividends paid of $131.1 million. as a percentage of total assets, stockholders equity was 32.8% at december 31, 2007 compared to 12.5% at december 31, 2006. people united bank leverage, tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios were 24.1%, 32.3% and 33.4%, respectively, at december 31, 2007, compared to 12.0%, 14.8% and 16.1%, respectively, at december 31, 2006. the improvements in the capital ratios from december 31, 2006 primarily reflect the $1.7 billion capital contribution from people united financial with a portion of the net proceeds from the second-step conversion. comparison of financial condition at december 31, 2006 and december 31, 2005. total assets at december 31, 2006 were $10.7 billion, a decrease of $246 million, or 2%, from december 31, 2005, primarily due to a $1.3 billion decline in total securities, partially offset by increases of $799 million in total loans, $193 million in short-term investments, $58 million in bank-owned life insurance and $66 million in other assets. the increase in total loans reflects growth of $456 million, or 10%, in consumer financial services and $343 million, or 9%, in commercial banking. the growth in consumer financial services was driven by increases of $392 million, or 11%, in residential mortgage loans and $64 million, or 5%, in consumer loans. the increase in residential mortgage loans reflects, in part, the purchase of $170 million of adjustable-rate residential mortgage loans towards the end of the first quarter of 2006. the growth in commercial banking reflects increases of $235 million, or 37%, in loans originated by pclc, $135 million, or 29%, in our national credits portfolio, and $60 million, or 5%, in commercial lending. these increases were partially offset by an $87 million, or 5%, decline in commercial real estate loans. the decrease in the securities portfolio reflects the sale of $266 million and $810 million of debt securities in the second and third quarters of 2006, respectively, to better position people united financial balance sheet for the prevailing interest rate environment at the time. people united financial also funded an additional $50 million of bank-owned life insurance in 2006 and contributed $91.5 million in the third quarter of 2006 to its employee retirement plan (reported in other assets) to more than fully fund its projected benefit obligation and to significantly reduce pension plan expense in future years. proceeds from sales of securities were also used to reduce total borrowings and subordinated notes by $335 million since december 31, 2005. non-performing assets totaled $22.7 million at december 31, 2006, a $0.7 million increase from december 31, 2005. the slight increase in 2006 reflects a $10.6 million increase in non-performing commercial loans, essentially offset by decreases in non-performing commercial real estate loans and non-performing pclc loans of $5.6 million and $4.1 million, respectively. the allowance for loan losses decreased $1.0 million to $74 million at december 31, 2006 compared to december 31, 2005, primarily reflecting reductions in the allowance for loan losses allocated to the consumer loan portfolios, partially offset by net additions to the commercial banking loan portfolios. at december 31, 2006, the allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans was 0.79% and as a percentage of non-performing loans was 328%, compared to 0.87% and 353%, respectively, at december 31, 2005. 31 table of contents at december 31, 2006, liabilities totaled $9.3 billion, a $297 million, or 3%, decrease from december 31, 2005, reflecting a $335 million reduction in total borrowings and subordinated notes. core deposits increased a modest $86 million, or 1%, in 2006 compared to 2005, reflecting people united financial strategy to fund loan growth with proceeds from maturities, sales and repayments of securities rather than core deposits. people united financial total stockholders equity was $1.34 billion at december 31, 2006, a $51 million net increase from december 31, 2005, reflecting net income of $124.0 million, partially offset by dividends paid of $60 million and a $25 million increase in accumulated other comprehensive loss. the increase in accumulated other comprehensive loss reflects a $40 million after-tax increase from the adoption of sfas no. 158, employers accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans, effective december 31, 2006 and a $4 million increase in the after-tax unrealized loss on derivatives accounted for as cash flow hedges, partially offset by a $19 million reduction in the after-tax net unrealized loss on securities available for sale due to the sales of securities discussed above. as a percentage of total assets, stockholders equity was 12.5% at december 31, 2006 compared to 11.8% at december 31, 2005. comparison of results of operations for the year ended december 31, 2007 and december 31, 2006. people united financial reported net income of $150.7 million, or $0.52 per diluted share, for the year ended december 31, 2007, compared to $124.0 million, or $0.41 per diluted share, for the year-ago period. income from continuing operations totaled $149.2 million, or $0.52 per diluted share, for the year ended december 31, 2007, compared to $121.7 million, or $0.40 per diluted share, for the year-ago period. in 2007, people united financial return on average assets was 1.18% and return on average stockholders equity was 4.2%. results for 2007 include a $60 million contribution to the people united community foundation (included in non-interest expense), which had the effect of reducing net income by $39.6 million, or $0.13 per diluted share. results for 2006 include net security losses totaling $27.4 million from the sale of $266 million and $810 million of debt securities in the second and third quarters of 2006, respectively. results for 2006 also include a $2.4 million income tax benefit related to certain prior-year tax matters. the net impact of these items reduced 2006 net income by $15.8 million, or $0.11 per share. net interest income increased $104.2 million, or 27%, from 2006 and the net interest margin improved 25 basis points to 4.12%. these improvements reflect the investment of $3.3 billion in net proceeds from the second-step conversion (completed on april 16, 2007) in short-term investments, as well as the benefits from balance sheet restructuring activities completed during 2006. compared to 2006, average earning assets increased $1.9 billion, or 20%, reflecting increases of $2.5 billion in average short-term investments and $120 million in average loans, partially offset by a decrease of $735 million in average securities, reflecting the sale of $1.1 billion of debt securities in 2006 (described above). compared to 2006, total non-interest income increased $38 million. included in total non-interest income are net security gains of $5.5 million in 2007 and net security losses of $23.2 million in 2006. total non-interest expense in 2007 increased $32.4 million, or 9%, compared to 2006, excluding the $60 million contribution to the people united community foundation. the efficiency ratio improved to 56.1% from 61.3%. the provision for loan losses was $8.0 million compared to $3.4 million in 2006. the provision for loan losses in 2007 reflects net loan charge-offs of $9.3 million, partially offset by a $1.3 million decrease in the allowance for loan losses. the provision for loan losses in 2006 reflects net loan charge-offs of $4.4 million and a $1.0 million reduction in the allowance for loan losses. net loan charge-offs increased $4.9 million in 2007 compared to 2006. net loan charge-offs as a percentage of average loans equaled 0.10% in 2007, up from 0.05% in 2006. 32 table of contents comparison of results of operations for 2006 and 2005. people united financial reported net income in 2006 of $124.0 million, or $0.41 per diluted share, compared to $137.1 million, or $0.46 per diluted share, in 2005. income from continuing operations totaled $121.7 million, or $0.40 per diluted share, for the year ended december 31, 2006, compared to $125.9 million, or $0.42 per diluted share, for the year-ago period. results for 2006 include net security losses totaling $27.4 million from the sale of debt securities and a $2.4 million income tax benefit related to certain prior-year tax matters. the net impact of these items reduced 2006 net income by $15.8 million, or $0.5 per share. results for 2005 included an $8.1 million gain on the sale of three branches, a $9.7 million gain from the resolution of a significant contingency related to the sale of the credit card business in 2004 (reported in income from discontinued operations), a $2.0 million income tax benefit resulting from the completion of a routine federal tax audit, a $2.0 million goodwill impairment charge and expenses incurred in connection with the repurchase of subordinated notes ($2.7 million) and the accelerated vesting of stock options ($0.7 million). the net impact of these items increased 2005 net income by $9.3 million, or $0.03 per share. in 2005, people united financial return on average assets was 1.27% and return on average stockholders equity was 11.1%. net interest income increased $12.7 million, or 3%, from 2005 and the net interest margin improved 19 basis points to 3.87%. the higher net interest margin reflects the asset-sensitive position of the balance sheet, the substitution of securities with higher-yielding loans, the partial benefit from the sales of securities in the second and third quarters of 2006, and the impact of our deposit pricing strategy. compared to 2005, average earning assets decreased $173 million, or 2%, as a $934 million, or 54%, decline in average securities funded a $715 million, or 9%, increase in average loans and a $113 million, or 27%, decrease in average total borrowings and average subordinated notes. the loan growth reflects increases of $285 million, or 8%, in average commercial banking loans, $345 million, or 10%, in average residential mortgage loans, and $108 million, or 9%, in average home equity loans, all as compared to 2005. the increase in average residential mortgage loans reflects, in part, the purchase of $170 million of adjustable-rate residential mortgage loans towards the end of the first quarter of 2006. in addition, people united financial invested $50 million in the first quarter of 2006 and $150 million in the second quarter of 2005 in bank-owned life insurance, and contributed $91.5 million to its employee retirement plan in september 2006. compared to 2005, total non-interest income, excluding net security losses, increased $1.2 million, or 1%; total non-interest expense increased $2.5 million, or 1%; and the efficiency ratio improved to 61.3% from 62.8%. the provision for loan losses was $3.4 million compared to $8.6 million in 2005. the provision for loan losses for 2006 reflects net loan charge-offs of $4.4 million, partially offset by a $1.0 million decrease in the allowance for loan losses. the provision for loan losses in 2005 reflects net loan charge-offs of $6.1 million and a $2.5 million increase in the allowance for loan losses. net loan charge-offs decreased $1.7 million, or 28%, in 2006 compared to 2005. net loan charge-offs as a percentage of average loans equaled 0.05%, down from 0.07% in 2005. business segment results people united financial operations are divided into two primary business segments that represent its core businesses, commercial banking and consumer financial services. in addition, the treasury area is responsible for managing people united financial securities portfolio, short-term investments, wholesale funding activities, such as borrowings, and the funding center. the income or loss for the funding center, which includes the impact of derivative financial instruments used for risk management purposes, represents the interest rate risk component of people united financial net interest income as calculated by people united financial funds transfer pricing model ( ftp ), to derive each operating segment net interest income. 33 table of contents business segment performance summary net income years ended december 31 (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 commercial banking $ 37.6 $ 41.9 $ 45.7 consumer financial services 66.8 85.8 94.2 treasury (8.6 ) (26.0 ) (25.0 ) total reportable segments 95.8 101.7 114.9 other 54.9 22.3 22.2 total consolidated $ 150.7 $ 124.0 $ 137.1 people united financial uses an internal profitability reporting system to generate information by operating segment, which is based on a series of management estimates and allocations regarding funds transfer pricing, the provision for loan losses, non-interest expense and income taxes. these estimates and allocations, some of which can be subjective in nature, are continually being reviewed and refined. any changes in estimates and allocations that may affect the reported results of any business segment will not affect the consolidated financial position or results of operations of people united financial as a whole. ftp is used in the calculation of each operating segment net interest income, and measures the value of funds used in and provided by an operating segment. the difference between the interest income on earning assets and the interest expense on funding liabilities, and the corresponding ftp charge for interest income or credit for interest expense, results in net spread income. the provision for loan losses for the commercial banking and consumer financial services segments is generally based on a five-year rolling average net charge-off rate for the respective segment. people united financial allocates a majority of non-interest expenses to each business segment using a full-absorption costing process. direct and indirect costs are analyzed and pooled by process and assigned to the appropriate business segment and corporate overhead costs are allocated to the business segments. income tax expense is allocated to each business segment using a constant rate, based on an estimate of the consolidated effective income tax rate for the year. for a more detailed description of the estimates and allocations used to measure business segment performance, see note 23 to the consolidated financial statements. commercial banking consists principally of commercial lending, commercial real estate lending and commercial deposit gathering activities. this segment also includes the equipment financing operations of pclc, as well as cash management, correspondent banking and municipal banking. years ended december 31 (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 net interest income $ 131.7 $ 130.5 $ 129.7 provision for loan losses 10.9 10.5 9.4 non-interest income: fee-based revenues 19.8 17.8 21.7 other non-interest income 8.3 5.0 2.0 total non-interest income 28.1 22.8 23.7 non-interest expense 91.1 78.3 73.7 income before income tax expense 57.8 64.5 70.3 income tax expense 20.2 22.6 24.6 income from continuing operations $ 37.6 $ 41.9 $ 45.7 average earning assets $ 4,253.5 $ 3,904.9 $ 3,620.9 average liabilities 1,016.2 1,172.7 1,270.5 year end assets 4,490.8 4,155.0 3,812.2 commercial banking income from continuing operations declined $4.3 million, or 10%, in 2007 compared to 2006, reflecting an increase in non-interest expense, partially offset by increases in net interest income, 34 table of contents fee-based revenues and other non-interest income. net interest income increased $1.2 million, or 1%, reflecting a $349 million, or 9%, increase in average earning assets, partially offset by narrower net spreads and a decline in commercial non-interest-bearing deposits. the $2.0 million increase in fee-based revenues reflects higher lending-related charges and fees. the increase in other non-interest income primarily reflects a $3.8 million increase in rental income on leased equipment. the $12.8 million, or 16%, increase in non-interest expense reflects increases in direct expenses due to continued growth in commercial banking and a $2.8 million increase in amortization expense for leased equipment, as well as allocated expenses primarily related to costs associated with ongoing infrastructure upgrades. the increase in average earning assets compared to 2006 reflects increases of $210 million, or 30%, in pclc loans, $96 million, or 7%, in commercial loans and $42 million, or 2%, in commercial real estate loans. average commercial non-interest-bearing deposits totaled $883 million for 2007, a $56 million, or 6%, decrease compared to 2006, reflecting the current higher interest rate environment. commercial banking income from continuing operations declined $3.8 million, or 8%, in 2006 compared to 2005, primarily reflecting lower fee-based revenues and an increase in non-interest expense, partially offset by an increase in other non-interest income. net interest income increased $0.8 million, or 1%, reflecting a $284 million, or 8%, increase in average earning assets, partially offset by narrower net spreads. the $3.9 million decrease in fee-based revenues reflects lower lending-related charges and fees, primarily lower commercial real estate loan prepayment penalties. the increase in other non-interest income primarily reflects a $2.7 million increase in rental income on leased equipment. the $4.6 million, or 6%, increase in non-interest expense reflects an increase in direct expenses due to the continued growth in commercial banking, including a $2.0 million increase in the amortization expense of equipment leased to commercial customers. the increase in average earning assets compared to 2005 reflects increases of $183 million, or 35%, in pclc loans, and $127 million, or 10%, in commercial loans, partially offset by a $25 million, or 1%, decrease in commercial real estate finance loans. average commercial non-interest-bearing deposits totaled $939 million for 2006, a $43 million, or 4%, decrease compared to 2005, reflecting the current higher interest rate environment. consumer financial services includes, as its principal business lines, consumer deposit gathering activities, and residential mortgage, home equity and other consumer lending (excluding the national consumer loan portfolio, which is reported in other ). in addition to trust services, this segment also includes brokerage, financial advisory services, investment management services and life insurance provided by psi, and other insurance services provided through rc knox. years ended december 31 (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 net interest income $ 247.7 $ 256.4 $ 266.4 provision for loan losses 3.0 3.0 3.5 non-interest income: fee-based revenues 134.6 135.1 129.0 net gains on sales of residential mortgage loans 3.0 2.0 4.0 gain on sale of branches 8.1 other non-interest income 2.4 3.4 2.4 total non-interest income 140.0 140.5 143.5 non-interest expense 281.4 261.3 259.4 income before income tax expense 103.3 132.6 147.0 income tax expense 36.5 46.8 52.8 income from continuing operations $ 66.8 $ 85.8 $ 94.2 average earning assets $ 4,863.1 $ 5,086.6 $ 4,634.9 average liabilities 7,843.6 7,807.8 7,762.4 year end assets 4,606.2 5,366.4 4,900.7 35 table of contents consumer financial services income from continuing operations decreased $19.0 million, or 22%, in 2007 compared to 2006, reflecting an increase in non-interest expense and a decline in net interest income. the decrease in net interest income reflects a reduction in residential mortgage loan net spread interest income, and a shift from wider net spread deposits to time deposits with narrower net spreads, partially offset by the widening net spreads on money market accounts. during 2007, average earning assets decreased $224 million, or 4%, including decreases of $208 million, or 6%, in average residential mortgage loans and $9 million, or 1%, in average home equity loans. the decrease in average residential mortgage loans reflects people united financial decision in the fourth quarter of 2006 to sell essentially all of its newly-originated residential mortgage loans. as a result, residential mortgage loan balances are expected to decline in the future until people united financial resumes adding such loans to its portfolio to an extent that more than offsets repayments. average consumer deposits totaled $7.7 billion, a less than 1% increase compared to 2006. the increase in non-interest expense reflects increases in allocated expenses primarily due to the costs associated with ongoing infrastructure upgrades relating to deposit gathering activities. consumer financial services income from continuing operations decreased $8.4 million, or 9%, in 2006 compared to 2005, primarily due to decreases in net interest income and net gains on sales of residential mortgage loans, partially offset by higher fee-based revenues. additionally, results for 2005 included the $8.1 million gain on sale of branches. the decrease in net interest income primarily reflects the reduction in net spread interest income for residential mortgage loans and the decline in net interest spread from an unfavorable shift from savings and money market deposits to higher-rate time deposits, partially offset by the benefit of an increase in average loan balances. the shift in deposit mix reflects an increase in higher-rate time deposits, partially offset by a decline in savings and money market deposits. during 2006, average earning assets increased $452 million, or 10%, including increases of $345 million, or 10%, in average residential mortgage loans and $106 million, or 9%, in average home equity loans. people united financial purchased $170 million of adjustable-rate residential mortgage loans towards the end of the first quarter of 2006. average consumer deposits totaled $7.7 billion, a 1% increase compared to 2005. the increase in fee-based revenues in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily reflects an increase in service charges on deposit accounts related to changes in people united financial fee structure. the increase in other non-interest income reflects a $0.7 million net gain from the sale of a corporate insurance account by rc knox. included in non-interest income in 2005 was an $8.1 million gain on the sale of three branches. the increase in non-interest expense reflects a $3.8 million increase in allocated expenses in 2006, partially offset by a $2.0 million goodwill impairment charge in 2005. treasury encompasses the securities portfolio, short-term investments, wholesale funding activities, such as borrowings, and the funding center. the income or loss for the funding center, which includes the impact of derivative financial instruments used for risk management purposes, represents the interest rate risk component of people united financial net interest income as calculated by people united financial funds transfer pricing model ( ftp ), to derive each operating segment net interest income. under this process, a money desk (the funding center) buys funds from liability-generating business lines (such as consumer deposits) and sells funds to asset-generating business lines (such as commercial lending). the price at which funds are bought and sold on any given day is set by people united financial treasury group and is based on the wholesale cost to people united financial of assets and liabilities with similar maturities. liability-generating businesses sell newly originated liabilities to the money desk and recognize a funding credit, while asset-generating businesses buy funding for newly originated assets from the money desk and recognize a funding charge. once funding for an asset is purchased from or a liability is sold to the money desk, the price that is set by the treasury group will remain with that asset or liability until it matures or reprices, which effectively transfers responsibility for managing interest rate risk to the treasury group. 36 table of contents years ended december 31 (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 net interest loss $ (29.8 ) $ (26.2 ) $ (43.0 ) non-interest income: fee-based revenues 0.5 net security losses (27.4 ) bank-owned life insurance 10.5 9.1 3.3 other non-interest income 0.1 0.1 0.3 total non-interest income 10.6 (18.2 ) 4.1 non-interest expense (0.3 ) 0.5 1.4 loss before income tax expense (18.9 ) (44.9 ) (40.3 ) income tax benefit (10.3 ) (18.9 ) (15.3 ) loss from continuing operations $ (8.6 ) $ (26.0 ) $ (25.0 ) average earning assets $ 2,689.0 $ 878.5 $ 1,765.9 average liabilities 81.0 234.1 282.5 year end assets 3,756.6 469.0 1,553.2 the reduction in treasury loss from continuing operations in 2007 compared to 2006 reflects $27.4 million of net security losses in 2006 and a $1.4 million increase in bank-owned life insurance ( boli ), partially offset by a $3.6 million increase in net interest loss. the increase in net interest loss reflects an increase of $7.1 million in treasury net spread loss, partially offset by a $3.5 million decline in the funding center net spread loss. the increase in treasury net spread loss reflects a $735 million decline in average securities and virtually no net spread benefit from the increase in average short-term investments. the benefit from the increase in average short-term investments is included in other as interest income from excess capital. the improvement in the funding center net spread loss reflects the rising interest rate environment prevalent for most of 2007 and the asset sensitive position of people united financial balance sheet. average earning assets increased $1.8 billion from 2006. average short-term investments increased $2.5 billion, reflecting the investment of net proceeds from the second-step conversion, while average securities declined $735 million resulting from the sale of $1.1 billion of securities in 2006. the debt securities portfolio totaled $23 million at december 31, 2007, compared to $27 million at december 31, 2006. average securities comprised 1% of average earning assets in 2007, compared to 8% in 2006. treasury loss from continuing operations in 2006 compared to 2005 reflects $27.4 million of net security losses, partially offset by a $16.8 million improvement in net interest income and boli income of $9.1 million ($13.7 million on a taxable-equivalent basis). the improvement in net interest income reflects the funding center net spread loss declining by $31.8 million, partially offset by a $15.0 million decline in treasury net spread income. the reduction in treasury net spread income reflects a $934 million decline in average securities and an increase in the ftp charge for funding the boli investment (with no offsetting interest income as boli income is recorded in non-interest income). the improvement in the funding center net spread loss reflects the rising interest rate environment and the asset sensitive position of people united financial balance sheet. average earning assets decreased $887 million, or 50%, reflecting a $934 million, or 54%, decline in average securities from 2005 given people united financial sale of its debt securities portfolio during 2006 as part of restructuring activities to better position people united financial balance sheet for the prevailing interest rate environment. the debt securities portfolio totaled $27 million at december 31, 2006, compared to $1.3 billion at december 31, 2005, reflecting the sale of approximately $1.1 billion of securities and the 37 table of contents substitution of securities with higher-yielding loans. average securities comprised 8% of average earning assets in 2006, compared to 17% in 2005. other includes the residual financial impact from the allocation of revenues and expenses and certain revenues and expenses not attributable to a particular segment, and the ftp impact attributable to excess capital. this category also includes: revenues and expenses relating to the national consumer loan portfolio; certain nonrecurring items, including security gains of $5.4 million from the sale of people united financial entire holdings of mastercard incorporated class b common stock (included in non-interest income for the year ended december 31, 2007) and the $60 million contribution to the people united community foundation (included in non-interest expense for the year december 31, 2007); income from discontinued operations; and income tax benefits. the increase in net interest income in 2007 compared to 2006 reflects the ftp credit resulting from the significant increase in excess capital from the second-step conversion. included in period-end assets are cash, national consumer loans, premises and equipment, and other assets. years ended december 31 (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 net interest income $ 137.0 $ 21.7 $ 16.6 provision for loan losses (5.9 ) (10.1 ) (4.3 ) non-interest income 6.7 2.3 2.0 liability restructuring costs 2.7 other non-interest expense 67.1 6.8 7.2 income before income tax expense 82.5 27.3 13.0 income tax expense 29.1 7.3 2.0 income from continuing operations 53.4 20.0 11.0 income from discontinued operations, net of tax 1.5 2.3 5.0 gain on sale of discontinued operations, net of tax 6.2 income from discontinued operations 1.5 2.3 11.2 net income $ 54.9 $ 22.3 $ 22.2 average liabilities $ 233.5 $ 246.9 $ 264.5 year end assets 701.2 696.5 666.4 38 table of contents net interest income net interest income and net interest margin are affected by many factors, including changes in average balances; interest rate fluctuations and the slope of the yield curve; sales of loans and securities; residential mortgage loan and mortgage-backed security prepayment rates; product pricing; competitive forces; the relative mix, repricing characteristics and maturity of earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities; non-interest-bearing sources of funds; hedging activities; and asset quality. net interest margin years ended december 31 (percent) net interest income years ended december 31 (dollars in millions) in response to the disruptions in the capital markets caused by the sub-prime mortgage crisis and the potential for a contracting u.s. economy, since september 2007 the federal reserve board lowered the targeted federal funds rate five times by a total of 225 basis points, bringing the rate to 3.00% as of january 30, 2008. given the asset sensitive position of the balance sheet, the net interest margin may compress in 2008. 2007 compared to 2006 net interest income increased $105 million, or 27%, and the net interest margin improved 25 basis points to 4.12% for 2007 compared to 2006. the increase in net interest income reflects a $125 million increase in total interest and dividend income, partially offset by a $20 million increase in total interest expense. the increase in net interest margin reflects the investment of $3.3 billion in net proceeds from the second-step conversion in short-term investments, as well as the benefits from the balance sheet restructuring activities completed during 2006. 39 table of contents average earning assets totaled $11.8 billion in 2007, a $1.9 billion, or 20%, increase from 2006, while the asset mix continued to shift. average short-term investments increased $2.5 billion, reflecting the investment of $3.3 billion in net proceeds from the second-step conversion in april 2007; average loans increased $120 million, or 1%; and average securities declined $735 million, reflecting the sale of $1.1 billion of debt securities in 2006. as a result, average loans, average securities and average short-term investments comprised 77%, 1% and 22%, respectively, of average earning assets in 2007 compared to 91%, 8% and 1%, respectively, in 2006. the yield earned on the total loan portfolio was 6.27% in 2007 while the yield earned on securities was 5.62%, compared to 6.10% and 3.74%, respectively, in 2006. excluding adjustable-rate residential mortgage loans, which are mostly of the hybrid variety, approximately 31% of the loan portfolio has floating interest rates at december 31, 2007 compared to approximately 29% at the end of 2006. growth in loans reflects an increase of $348 million, or 9%, in average commercial banking loans, partially offset by decreases of $209 million, or 6%, in average residential mortgage loans and $19 million, or 2%, in average consumer loans for 2007 compared to 2006. the growth in average commercial banking loans in 2007 compared to 2006 reflects increases of $210 million, or 30%, in average pclc loans, $96 million, or 7%, in average commercial loans and $42 million, or 2%, in average commercial real estate loans. included in average commercial loans and average commercial real estate loans were increases of $64 million, or 20%, and $78 million, or 38%, in the respective national credits portfolios. the decrease in average residential mortgage loans in 2007 compared to 2006 reflects people united financial decision in the fourth quarter of 2006 to sell essentially all of its newly-originated residential mortgage loans. as a result, residential mortgage loan balances are expected to continue to decline in the future until people united financial resumes adding such loans to its portfolio to an extent that more than offsets repayments. the decrease in average consumer loans primarily reflects a $9 million, or 1%, decline in average home equity loans following a nationwide pattern. the overall 9 basis point improvement in the yield on average earning assets in 2007 primarily reflects the investment of the net proceeds from the second-step conversion discussed above, increases in market interest rates and the ongoing shift in asset mix, including the impact of the security sales. average funding liabilities totaled $9.0 billion in 2007, down $287 million or 3% compared with 2006. average core deposits decreased $83 million, or 1%, to $8.9 billion and comprised 98% of average funding liabilities, compared to 96% in 2006. average non-interest-bearing core deposits decreased $57 million, or 3%, and average interest-bearing core deposits decreased $26 million, or less than 1%, reflective of people united financial strategy of funding loan growth with proceeds from maturities, sales and repayments of securities rather than core deposits. the 30 basis point increase to 2.45% from 2.15% in the rate paid on average funding liabilities in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily reflects increases in market interest rates prevalent in most of 2007 and the ongoing shift in deposit mix. the rates paid on average core deposits increased 41 basis points in 2007, reflecting increases of 67 basis points in time deposits and 8 basis points in savings and money market deposits in response to rising market interest rates prevalent in most of 2007. the change in the mix of average interest-bearing core deposits reflects a $323 million, or 10%, increase in higher-rate time deposits, partially offset by a $349 million, or 10%, decline in savings and money market deposits, reflecting customers preferences for deposit products with higher interest rates. average time deposits comprised 41% of average total core deposits, compared to 37% for 2006. average purchased funds decreased $227 million, or 92%, and average subordinated notes decreased $40 million, or 38%, in 2007 compared to 2006. 40 table of contents 2006 compared to 2005 net interest income increased $13 million, or 3%, and the net interest margin improved 19 basis points to 3.87% in 2006 compared to 2005. the increase in net interest income reflects a $74 million increase in total interest and dividend income, partially offset by a $61 million increase in total interest expense. average earning assets totaled $9.8 billion in 2006, a $173 million, or 2%, decrease from 2005, while the asset mix continued to shift. the shift in asset mix from securities to higher yielding loans continued to benefit the net interest margin. average loans increased $715 million, or 9%, while average securities declined $934 million, or 54%, in 2006 compared to 2005. as a result, average loans and average securities comprised 91% and 8%, respectively, of average earning assets in 2006 compared to 82% and 17%, respectively, in 2005. the yield earned on the total loan portfolio was 6.10% in 2006 while the yield earned on securities was 3.74%, compared to 5.41% and 3.47%, respectively, in 2005. loan growth reflects increases of $345 million, or 10%, in average residential mortgage loans, $285 million, or 8%, in average commercial banking loans and $85 million, or 7%, in average consumer loans in 2006 compared to 2005. the increase in average residential mortgage loans reflects, in part, the purchase of $170 million of adjustable rate mortgage loans towards the end of the first quarter of 2006. the growth in average commercial banking loans in 2006 compared to 2005 reflects a $183 million, or 35%, increase in average pclc loans and a $127 million, or 10%, increase in average commercial loans, partially offset by a $25 million, or 1%, decrease in average commercial real estate loans. included in average commercial loans and average commercial real estate loans were increases of $44 million, or 15%, and $59 million, or 40%, in the respective national credits portfolios. the growth in average consumer loans in 2006 compared to 2005 continues to reflect a shift in mix as an increase of $108 million, or 9%, in home equity loans was partially offset by a $21 million, or 81%, reduction in higher-yielding unsecured national personal installment loans, which continue to run off as a result of a management decision to discontinue this type of lending. the significant decrease in the average securities portfolio in 2006 compared to 2005 reflects the substitution of securities with higher-yielding loans as securities pay down and mature, as well as the partial impact of security sales during 2006 to better position people united financial balance sheet for the prevailing interest rate environment. people united financial sold $810 million and $266 million of debt securities in the third and second quarters of 2006, respectively, and used the proceeds to fund loan growth and pay down borrowings. in addition to funding loan growth, people united financial invested $50 million in the first quarter of 2006 and $150 million in the second quarter of 2005 in a bank-owned life insurance program with proceeds from maturing securities. the earnings from bank-owned life insurance are reported in non-interest income in the consolidated statements of income. the overall 84 basis point improvement in the yield on average earning assets in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily reflects increases in market interest rates since june 2004 and the ongoing shift in asset mix. average funding liabilities totaled $9.3 billion in 2006, down $113 million or 1% compared with 2005. average core deposits increased $38 million, or less than 1%, to $8.9 billion and comprised 96% of average funding liabilities, compared to 95% in 2005. average interest-bearing core deposits increased $101 million, or 2%, and average non-interest-bearing core deposits decreased $63 million, or 3%, reflective of people united financial strategy of funding loan growth with proceeds from maturities, sales and repayments of securities rather than core deposits. 41 table of contents the 68 basis point increase to 2.15% from 1.47% in the rate paid on average funding liabilities in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily reflects increases in market interest rates since june 2004 and the ongoing shift in deposit mix. the rates paid on average core deposits increased 70 basis points in 2006, reflecting increases of 115 basis points in time deposits and 36 basis points in savings and money market deposits in response to rising market interest rates. the change in the mix of average interest-bearing core deposits reflects a $660 million, or 25%, increase in higher-rate time deposits, partially offset by a $559 million, or 14%, decline in savings and money market deposits, reflecting customers preferences for deposit products with higher interest rates given the prevailing interest rate environment. average time deposits comprised 37% of average total core deposits, compared to 30% in 2005. average purchased funds decreased $134 million, or 35%, and average subordinated notes decreased $16 million, or 13%, in 2006 compared to 2005. average balance, interest and yield/rate analysis the table on the following page presents average balance sheets, interest income, interest expense and the corresponding average yields earned and rates paid for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. the average balances are principally daily averages and, for loans, include both performing and non-performing balances. interest income on loans includes the effect of deferred loan fees and costs accounted for as yield adjustments, but does not include interest on loans for which people united financial has ceased to accrue interest. the impact of people united financial use of derivative instruments in managing interest rate risk is also reflected in the table, classified according to the instrument hedged and the risk management objective. 42 table of contents average balance, interest and yield/rate analysis 2007 2006 2005 years ended december 31 (dollars in millions) average balance interest yield/ rate average balance interest yield/ rate average balance interest yield/ rate earning assets: short-term investments $ 1,709.4 $ 86.7 5.07 % $ 106.6 $ 5.3 4.97 % $ 54.5 $ 1.5 2.86 % securities purchased under agreements to resell 959.1 48.3 5.03 16.6 0.8 4.98 22.8 1.0 4.22 securities (1) 69.2 3.9 5.62 803.8 30.0 3.74 1,737.8 60.3 3.47 loans: residential mortgage 3,550.3 183.9 5.18 3,758.8 185.2 4.93 3,413.3 154.7 4.53 commercial 2,441.5 167.6 6.86 2,135.7 146.5 6.86 1,825.5 108.7 5.95 commercial real estate 1,807.3 127.7 7.07 1,765.1 126.0 7.14 1,790.5 116.2 6.49 consumer 1,268.9 88.9 7.01 1,288.3 88.3 6.85 1,203.3 65.8 5.47 total loans 9,068.0 568.1 6.27 8,947.9 546.0 6.10 8,232.6 445.4 5.41 total earning assets $ 11,805.7 $ 707.0 5.99 % $ 9,874.9 $ 582.1 5.90 % $ 10,047.7 $ 508.2 5.06 % funding liabilities: deposits: non-interest-bearing deposits $ 2,111.4 $ % $ 2,168.6 $ % $ 2,231.7 $ % savings, interest-bearing checking and money market 3,114.9 46.8 1.50 3,464.4 49.2 1.42 4,023.4 42.6 1.06 time 3,632.0 165.8 4.56 3,308.7 128.8 3.89 2,648.8 72.6 2.74 total core deposits 8,858.3 212.6 2.40 8,941.7 178.0 1.99 8,903.9 115.2 1.29 non-core deposits (2) 78.4 1.0 1.30 40.4 2.1 5.42 77.5 2.3 3.02 total deposits 8,936.7 213.6 2.39 8,982.1 180.1 2.01 8,981.4 117.5 1.31 borrowings: federal funds purchased 3.3 0.2 5.23 158.2 7.6 4.78 250.5 7.9 3.19 fhlb advances 0.1 5.04 47.2 2.4 5.15 50.3 1.4 2.73 repurchase agreements 1.7 0.1 2.41 total borrowings 3.4 0.2 5.23 205.4 10.0 4.87 302.5 9.4 3.11 subordinated notes 65.3 6.6 10.15 105.0 9.6 9.10 121.2 11.3 9.29 total funding liabilities $ 9,005.4 $ 220.4 2.45 % $ 9,292.5 $ 199.7 2.15 % $ 9,405.1 $ 138.2 1.47 % excess of earning assets over funding liabilities $ 2,800.3 $ 582.4 $ 642.6 net interest income/spread $ 486.6 3.54 % $ 382.4 3.75 % $ 370.0 3.59 % net interest margin 4.12 % 3.87 % 3.68 % (1) average balances and yields for securities available for sale are based on amortized cost. (2) the average balance for the twelve months ended december 31, 2007 includes $62.8 million in average escrow funds related to people united financial stock offering (none at december 31, 2006 and december 31, 2005). 43 table of contents volume and rate analysis the following table shows the extent to which changes in interest rates and changes in the volume of average earning assets and average interest-bearing liabilities have affected people united financial net interest income. for each category of earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, information is provided relating to: changes in volume (changes in average balances multiplied by the prior year average interest rate); changes in rates (changes in average interest rates multiplied by the prior year average balance); and the total change. changes attributable to both volume and rate have been allocated proportionately. 2007 compared to 2006 increase (decrease) 2006 compared to 2005 increase (decrease) (in millions) volume rate total volume rate total interest and dividend income: short-term investments $ 81.3 $ 0.1 $ 81.4 $ 2.1 $ 1.7 $ 3.8 securities purchased under agreements to resell 47.4 0.1 47.5 (0.3 ) 0.1 (0.2 ) securities (36.4 ) 10.3 (26.1 ) (34.6 ) 4.3 (30.3 ) loans: residential mortgage (10.5 ) 9.2 (1.3 ) 16.4 14.1 30.5 commercial 21.0 0.1 21.1 20.0 17.8 37.8 commercial real estate 3.0 (1.3 ) 1.7 (1.7 ) 11.5 9.8 consumer (1.3 ) 1.9 0.6 4.9 17.6 22.5 total loans 12.2 9.9 22.1 39.6 61.0 100.6 total change in interest and dividend income 104.5 20.4 124.9 6.8 67.1 73.9 interest expense: deposits: savings, interest-bearing checking and money market (5.1 ) 2.7 (2.4 ) (6.5 ) 13.1 6.6 time 13.4 23.6 37.0 20.9 35.3 56.2 total core deposits 8.3 26.3 34.6 14.4 48.4 62.8 non-core deposits 1.2 (2.3 ) (1.1 ) (0.8 ) 0.6 (0.2 ) total deposits 9.5 24.0 33.5 13.6 49.0 62.6 borrowings: fhlb advances (2.4 ) (2.4 ) (0.1 ) 1.1 1.0 federal funds purchased (8.0 ) 0.6 (7.4 ) (3.6 ) 3.3 (0.3 ) repurchase agreements (0.1 ) (0.1 ) total borrowings (10.4 ) 0.6 (9.8 ) (3.8 ) 4.4 0.6 subordinated notes (3.9 ) 0.9 (3.0 ) (1.5 ) (0.2 ) (1.7 ) total change in interest expense (4.8 ) 25.5 20.7 8.3 53.2 61.5 change in net interest income $ 109.3 $ (5.1 ) $ 104.2 $ (1.5 ) $ 13.9 $ 12.4 44 table of contents the following table provides the weighted average yields earned and rates paid for each major category of earning assets and funding liabilities as of december 31, 2007. as of december 31, 2007 (dollars in millions) actual balance yield/rate earning assets: short-term investments $ 3,088.0 4.38 % securities purchased under agreements to resell 428.0 4.40 securities 61.5 5.54 loans 8,949.7 6.26 total earning assets $ 12,527.2 5.73 % funding liabilities: non-interest-bearing deposits $ 2,166.1 % savings, interest-bearing checking and money market deposits 3,008.9 1.44 time deposits 3,705.6 4.57 subordinated notes 65.4 9.88 total funding liabilities $ 8,946.0 2.45 % non-interest income percentage increase (decrease) years ended december 31 (dollars in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2007/2006 2006/2005 fee-based revenues: service charges on deposit accounts $ 76.3 $ 77.8 $ 72.4 (1.9 )% 7.5 % insurance revenue 26.8 27.3 28.0 (1.8 ) (2.5 ) brokerage commissions 13.6 12.2 11.7 11.5 4.3 other fee-based revenues: other banking service charges and fees 16.8 16.1 15.5 4.3 3.9 investment management fees 12.0 11.0 10.6 9.1 3.8 other fees 8.9 8.6 13.3 3.5 (35.3 ) total other fee-based revenues 37.7 35.7 39.4 5.6 (9.4 ) total fee-based revenues 154.4 153.0 151.5 0.9 1.0 net security gains (losses): equity securities available for sale 5.4 0.1 n/m n/m debt securities available for sale (27.4 ) n/m n/m trading account securities 0.1 0.1 (0.1 ) n/m n/m total net security losses 5.5 (27.2 ) (0.1 ) n/m n/m net gains on sales of residential mortgage loans 3.0 2.0 4.0 50.0 (50.0 ) gain on sale of branches 8.1 n/m n/m bank-owned life insurance 10.5 9.1 3.3 15.4 n/m other non-interest income 12.0 10.5 6.5 14.3 61.5 total non-interest income $ 185.4 $ 147.4 $ 173.3 25.8 % (14.9 )% n/m not meaningful non-interest income (especially fee-based revenues) is an important revenue source for people united financial that can mitigate the impact of interest rate volatility on net interest income. people united financial has focused on enhancing these revenue streams by leveraging its commercial banking relationships, growing existing fee-based revenue generating businesses, and strengthening its retail delivery network and products. 45 table of contents total non-interest income increased $38 million, or 26%, in 2007 compared to 2006, reflecting net security gains of $5.5 million in 2007 and net security losses of $27.4 million in 2006 (as part of balance sheet restructuring activities). revenue from service charges on deposit accounts decreased $1.5 million, or 2%, compared to 2006, reflecting changes in consumer behavior related to overdrafts, and more customers qualifying for free atm network transactions and free checking. brokerage commissions increased $1.4 million, or 11%, compared to 2006, reflecting increases in mutual fund and annuity commissions. other banking service charges and fees increased $0.7 million in 2007, primarily due to growth in retail banking fees associated with higher levels of personal identification number ( pin ) debit interchange fees resulting from customer preferences for debit card-related transactions. pin debit interchange refers to the revenue generated when a customer uses their pin to make a purchase with their debit card. people united financial earns a portion of the purchase amount whenever its customers use their debit card at a retail merchant. this interchange is paid by the retail merchant. securities gains in 2007 represent the sale of people united financial entire holdings of mastercard incorporated class b common stock. net gains on sales of residential mortgage loans increased $1.0 million in 2007, reflecting people united financial decision in the fourth quarter of 2006 to sell essentially all of its newly-originated residential mortgages in the current interest rate environment. residential mortgage sales volume increased 70% compared to 2006. boli income totaled $10.5 million in 2007 ($16.1 million on a taxable-equivalent basis), compared to $9.1 million ($13.7 million on a taxable-equivalent basis) in 2006. the $1.4 million, or 15%, increase primarily reflects death benefits of $1.1 million received in 2007. the increase in other non-interest income compared to 2006 reflects a $3.8 million increase in rental income resulting from the higher level of equipment leased to pclc customers. in addition, other non-interest income in 2006 included a $0.7 million net gain from the sale of a large corporate insurance account by rc knox, a $0.7 million gain from the redemption of common stock received in conjunction with the mastercard incorporated initial public offering given people united financial debit card business and $0.6 million of interest related to the completion of a federal tax audit. total non-interest income decreased $25.9 million, or 15%, in 2006 compared to 2005, reflecting net security losses of $27.4 million as part of balance sheet restructuring activities in 2006 and an $8.1 million gain on sale of branches in 2005. revenue from service charges on deposit accounts increased $5.4 million, or 7%, compared to 2005, reflecting changes in people united financial fee structure implemented in both the second quarter of 2006 and the third quarter of 2005 to close the gap between people united financial pricing practices and those of the competition, partially offset by the impact of higher usage by the public of the cash back option at point of sale locations. insurance revenue declined $0.7 million, or 2.5%, in 2006, reflecting industry-wide trends for this business, characterized as a soft market with lower pricing for renewals, as well as reductions related to the sale of a large corporate account in the third quarter of 2006. other banking service charges and fees increased $0.6 million in 2006 primarily due to growth in retail banking fees associated with higher levels of pin debit interchange fees resulting from customer preferences for debit card-related transactions. other fees decreased $5.1 million, reflecting lower lending-related charges and fees, primarily lower commercial real estate loan prepayment penalties. 46 table of contents as previously discussed, $1.1 billion of debt securities were sold in 2006, resulting in net security losses of $27.4 million. people united financial also sold $25 million in securities purchased under agreements to resell in 2006 at a loss of $0.3 million, which is reported in other non-interest expense. these transactions were undertaken to better position people united financial balance sheet for the prevailing interest rate environment. net gains on sales of residential mortgage loans decreased $2.0 million in 2006, reflecting lower residential mortgage loan origination volume and subsequent lower levels of fixed-rate loan sales. sales volume of fixed-rate residential mortgage loans decreased approximately 40% in 2006, which is consistent with the 39% decrease in fixed-rate residential mortgage originations compared to 2005. residential mortgage originations totaled $1.1 billion in 2006, compared to $1.4 billion in 2005. people united financial invested an additional $50 million in the first quarter of 2006 in bank-owned life insurance, after an initial investment of $150 million in the second quarter of 2005 to help defray the rising costs of employee benefits. increases in the cash surrender value of bank-owned life insurance are included in non-interest income and totaled $9.1 million in 2006 ($13.7 million on a taxable-equivalent basis), compared to $3.3 million ($5.1 million on a taxable-equivalent basis) in 2005. the increase in other non-interest income compared to 2005 reflects a $2.7 million increase in rental income resulting from the higher level of equipment leased to pclc customers. in addition, other non-interest income for the 2006 period includes a $0.7 million net gain from the sale of a large corporate insurance account by rc knox, a $0.7 million gain from the redemption of common stock received in conjunction with the mastercard incorporated initial public offering given people united financial debit card business and $0.6 million of interest related to the completion of a federal tax audit. non-interest expense percentage increase (decrease) years ended december 31 (dollars in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2007/2006 2006/2005 compensation and benefits $ 215.6 $ 202.9 $ 195.5 6.3 % 3.8 % occupancy and equipment 67.1 62.2 62.4 7.9 (0.3 ) professional and outside service fees 28.8 24.3 26.1 18.5 (6.9 ) advertising and promotion 12.1 10.3 9.9 17.5 4.0 stationery, printing and postage 7.9 7.5 7.1 5.3 5.6 amortization of other acquisition-related intangibles 1.0 1.1 1.8 (9.1 ) (38.9 ) other non-interest expense 46.8 38.6 36.9 21.2 4.6 total 379.3 346.9 339.7 9.3 2.1 contribution to the people united community foundation 60.0 n/m n/m liability restructuring costs 2.7 n/m n/m goodwill impairment charge 2.0 n/m n/m total non-interest expense $ 439.3 $ 346.9 $ 344.4 26.6 % 0.7 % efficiency ratio 56.1 % 61.3 % 62.8 % total non-interest expense in 2007 increased $32.4 million, or 9%, compared to 2006, excluding the $60 million contribution to the people united community foundation. the improvement in people united financial efficiency ratio in 2007 reflects a $112.6 million, or 20%, increase in revenue, partially offset by a $34.2 million, or 10%, increase in operating expenses. the increase in operating revenue reflects the increase in net interest income due to the investment of the net proceeds from the second-step conversion. 47 table of contents compensation and benefits increased $12.7 million, or 6%, compared to the 2006 period. the increase reflects amortization expense of $6.3 million related to the esop that was established in april 2007 and $2.6 million related to the october and december 2007 grants of restricted stock and stock options pursuant to the 2007 recognition and retention plan and the 2007 stock option plan, as well as higher compensation expense, reflecting normal merit increases, partially offset by lower pension expenses. compensation expense in 2008 is expected to include a full year of amortization expense, totaling approximately $25 million, relating to the esop, the 2007 recognition and retention plan, and the 2007 stock option plan. occupancy and equipment increased $4.9 million, or 8%, compared to the 2006 period. the increase primarily reflects higher rent-related expense due to rate increases and additional branches. professional and outside service fees increased $4.5 million, or 19%, compared to the 2006 period, reflecting higher costs for information technology-related projects. advertising and promotion increased $1.8 million, or 18%, compared to the 2006 period, primarily due to costs associated with the rebranding of the bank as a result of people bank changing its name to people united bank on june 6, 2007. the increase in other non-interest expense compared to 2006 primarily reflects a $2.8 million increase in the amortization of equipment leased to pclc customers and higher insurance costs and regulatory assessment fees. total non-interest expense in 2006 increased $2.5 million, or 1%, compared to 2005, primarily reflecting higher compensation and benefits and lower professional and outside service fees. the improvement in people united financial efficiency ratio in 2006 reflects a $22.8 million, or 4%, increase in revenue. total non-interest expense in 2006 included the following items: severance-related expenses totaling $1.6 million (recorded to compensation and benefits); a $0.3 million charge related to the sale of $25 million of securities purchased under agreements to resell as part of balance sheet restructuring activities (recorded to other non-interest expense); and a $0.9 million charge related to the resolution of an rc knox contingency (recorded to other non-interest expense). total non-interest expense in 2005 included the following items: liability restructuring costs of $2.7 million; a $0.7 million charge related to the accelerated vesting of stock options (recorded to compensation and benefits); and a $2.0 million goodwill impairment charge. excluding these expenses from the respective years, total non-interest expense in 2006 would have increased $5.1 million, or 2%, compared to 2005. compensation and benefits increased $6.5 million, or 3%, compared to the 2005 period, after excluding the items discussed above. the increase reflects the combination of normal merit increases, higher accruals for incentive compensation, and increased pension costs, partially offset by lower health care expenses. on september 29, 2006, people united financial contributed $91.5 million to its employee retirement plan, representing the maximum deductible contribution per internal revenue service rules. professional and outside service fees decreased $1.8 million, or 7%, compared to the 2005 period, reflecting lower utilization of information technology contractors and lower costs for people united financial declining national consumer loan portfolio, partially offset by higher legal costs related to people united financial conversion to a federal charter and costs related to infrastructure initiatives. the increase in other non-interest expense compared to 2005 primarily reflects a $2.0 million increase in the amortization of equipment leased to pclc customers, partially offset by lower operational charge-offs. the $2.0 million goodwill impairment charge in 2005 related to the decision to combine olson mobeck investment advisors, inc. with one of people united financial other businesses in the consumer financial services business segment. 48 table of contents discontinued operations income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, totaled $1.5 million, $2.3 million and $11.2 million for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. income from discontinued operations for the year ended december 31, 2006 includes an after-tax charge of $0.5 million and for the year ended december 31, 2005 includes after-tax income of $6.2 million from the resolution of contingencies related to the sale of people united financial credit card business in 2004. see note 24 to the consolidated financial statements. people united financial continues to generate recoveries from collection efforts on previously charged-off credit card accounts that were not included in the sale of the credit card business. these recoveries are included in income from discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of income. recoveries, net of collection costs, totaled $2.3 million, $4.1 million and $7.7 million for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. as the level of recoveries continues to decline due to the aging and diminishing pool of charged-off accounts, discontinued operations results are not expected to be reported separately in the consolidated statements of income in future periods. income taxes income tax expense from continuing operations totaled $75.5 million, $57.8 million and $64.1 million for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. income tax benefits of $2.4 million and $2.0 million are included in income tax expense from continuing operations for the years ended december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. these benefits relate to certain prior-year tax matters, including the completion of federal tax audits in 2005 and 2004. excluding these benefits from the respective years, people united financial effective income tax rate from continuing operations would have been 33.6%, 33.5% and 34.8% for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. the lower effective income tax rates for 2007 and 2006 compared to 2005 primarily reflects the higher level of tax-exempt bank-owned life insurance income earned in 2007 and 2006. people united financial effective income tax rate is expected to increase slightly beginning in 2008 due to a higher level of non-deductible expenses and an increase in state income tax liability, both resulting from the chittenden acquisition. income tax expense for all three years reflects the state tax benefit resulting from the formation of people mortgage investment company, a wholly owned subsidiary of people united bank. the formation of this subsidiary was a result of connecticut tax legislation, which became effective on january 1, 1999, that allows for the transfer of mortgage loans to a passive investment subsidiary. the related earnings of the subsidiary, and any dividends it pays to the parent, are not subject to connecticut income tax. 49 table of contents earning assets the discussion of earning assets has been grouped into treasury, consumer financial services and commercial banking. treasury securities 2007 2006 2005 as of december 31 (in millions) amortized cost fair value amortized cost fair value amortized cost fair value trading account securities $ 18.7 $ 18.7 $ 29.6 $ 29.6 $ 27.3 $ 27.3 securities held to maturity: corporate and other 0.6 0.6 1.1 1.1 1.3 1.3 mortgage-backed securities 0.1 0.1 total securities held to maturity 0.6 0.6 1.1 1.1 1.4 1.4 securities available for sale: debt securities: u.s. treasury and agency 22.0 22.0 25.9 25.9 295.0 287.7 mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations ( cmos ) 1,036.7 1,014.9 total debt securities 22.0 22.0 25.9 25.9 1,331.7 1,302.6 equity securities: fhlb stock 19.5 19.5 20.1 20.1 30.6 30.6 other 0.5 0.7 0.6 0.8 0.9 1.1 total equity securities 20.0 20.2 20.7 20.9 31.5 31.7 total securities available for sale 42.0 42.2 46.6 46.8 1,363.2 1,334.3 net unrealized gain (loss) on securities available for sale 0.2 0.2 (28.9 ) total securities available for sale, at fair value 42.2 42.2 46.8 46.8 1,334.3 1,334.3 total securities $ 61.5 $ 61.5 $ 77.5 $ 77.5 $ 1,363.0 $ 1,363.0 people united financial has historically utilized the securities portfolio for earnings generation (in the form of interest and dividend income), liquidity, interest rate risk management, asset diversification and tax planning. securities available for sale are used as part of people united financial asset/liability management strategy and may be sold in response to, or in anticipation of, factors such as changes in market conditions and interest rates, changes in security prepayment rates, liquidity considerations and regulatory capital requirements. people united financial primarily invests in debt securities rated in the four highest categories assigned by a nationally recognized statistical ratings organization. management has internal guidelines for the credit quality and duration of people united financial debt securities portfolio and monitors these on a regular basis. people united financial strives to maintain an appropriate balance between loan portfolio growth and core deposit funding. people united financial management currently believes that, other than for transitional deployment of excess core deposits or excess equity, a large securities portfolio funded with wholesale borrowings provides limited economic value. as part of this focus, people united financial has reduced its securities portfolio by $3.2 billion since december 31, 2002 and increased its loans by $2.3 billion over the same period. people united financial has also reduced borrowings by $2.4 billion since year-end 2002. 50 table of contents at december 31, 2007, people united financial securities portfolio totaled $61 million, or less than one-half of one percent of total assets, and had no wholesale borrowings, which represent positions well below industry averages. at december 31, 2006, people united financial securities portfolio totaled $78 million, a $1.3 billion, or 88%, decline from year-end 2005. in 2006, people united financial sold approximately $1.1 billion of debt securities as part of the restructuring of its balance sheet. realized losses from these sales of $27.4 million are included in net security losses in the consolidated statements of income. at december 31, 2007 and 2006, the book value and the market value of the securities available for sale portfolio were approximately equivalent, compared to net unrealized losses of $28.9 million at year-end 2005. the significant reduction in the unrealized loss in 2006 reflects the sale of securities during 2006 and the resulting significantly smaller securities portfolio. all unrealized gains and those unrealized losses representing temporary declines in value are recorded in stockholders equity, net of income taxes. as a result, management anticipates continued fluctuations in stockholders equity due to changes in the fair value of these securities, albeit on a much smaller scale due to the size and short duration of the portfolio. the duration of the debt securities portfolio was approximately 0.02 years at december 31, 2007, compared to 0.07 years at december 31, 2006. for a discussion of the regulatory capital treatment of unrealized gains and losses, see capital on page 68. lending activities people united financial conducts its lending activities through its two major business segments that constitute its core businesses: consumer financial services and commercial banking. people united financial lending activities consist of originating loans secured by residential and commercial properties, and extending secured and unsecured loans to consumers and businesses. total loans decreased $422 million, or 5%, in 2007 compared to 2006, after increases of 9% in 2006 and 8% in 2005. the decrease in 2007 reflects a decline of $758 million, or 15%, in consumer financial services, partially offset by an increase of $336 million, or 8%, in commercial banking. the $687 million decrease in residential mortgage loans in 2007 reflects people united financial decision in the fourth quarter of 2006 to sell essentially all of its newly-originated residential mortgage loans due to the low spreads on such loans in the current interest rate environment. the following table summarizes the loan portfolio. amounts represent gross loans before deducting the allowance for loan losses. as of december 31 (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 consumer financial services: residential mortgage: adjustable rate $ 3,123.8 $ 3,805.6 $ 3,410.8 $ 3,156.6 $ 2,940.0 fixed rate 89.1 94.5 97.1 109.8 149.1 total residential mortgage 3,212.9 3,900.1 3,507.9 3,266.4 3,089.1 consumer 1,250.8 1,321.3 1,257.5 1,140.0 980.5 commercial banking: commercial real estate 1,885.6 1,786.7 1,778.3 1,838.1 1,699.9 commercial and industrial lending 1,618.9 1,493.8 1,394.5 1,235.9 1,035.2 equipment financing 981.5 869.8 634.7 453.0 300.3 total commercial banking 4,486.0 4,150.3 3,807.5 3,527.0 3,035.4 total loans $ 8,949.7 $ 9,371.7 $ 8,572.9 $ 7,933.4 $ 7,105.0 51 table of contents total loans as of december 31 (dollars in millions) the following table presents the contractual maturity of loans as of december 31, 2007. as of december 31, 2007 (in millions) consumer financial services commercial banking total amounts due: one year or less $ 174.5 $ 673.6 $ 848.1 after one year: one to five years 169.2 1,679.8 1,849.0 over five years 4,120.0 2,132.6 6,252.6 total due after one year 4,289.2 3,812.4 8,101.6 total $ 4,463.7 $ 4,486.0 $ 8,949.7 the following table presents, as of december 31, 2007, loan amounts due after december 31, 2007, and whether these loans have fixed interest rates or adjustable interest rates. (in millions) fixed adjustable total consumer financial services $ 371.8 $ 3,917.4 $ 4,289.2 commercial banking 2,059.8 1,752.6 3,812.4 total loans due after one year $ 2,431.6 $ 5,670.0 $ 8,101.6 consumer financial services residential mortgage lending people united financial offers its customers a wide range of residential mortgage loan products. these include conventional fixed rate loans, jumbo fixed rate loans (loans with principal balances greater than established freddie mac and fannie mae limits), adjustable rate loans, sometimes referred to as arm loans, interest-only loans (loans where payments made by the borrower consist of only interest for a set period of time, before the payments change to principal and interest), as well as federal housing authority insured loans and connecticut housing finance authority loans. people united financial originates these loans through its network of branches and calling officers, as well as in the wholesale market, which accounted for approximately 21%, 66% and 59% of people united financial mortgage loan originations for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. the decline in wholesale originations reflects people united financial decision in the fourth quarter of 2006 to sell essentially all of its newly-originated residential mortgage loans. 52 table of contents at december 31, 2007 and 2006, 91% and 92%, respectively, of the residential mortgage loan portfolio was secured by properties located in connecticut. included in residential mortgage loans are construction loans totaling $96 million and $188 million at december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. in 2007, people united financial level of residential mortgage originations declined to $431 million, compared to $1.1 billion in 2006 and $1.4 billion in 2005. the mix and volume of residential mortgage loan originations vary in response to changes in market interest rates and customer preferences. adjustable rate loans accounted for 27% of total residential mortgage originations in 2007, compared to 77% and 73% for 2006 and 2005, respectively. at december 31, 2007, the residential mortgage loan portfolio included $1.8 billion of interest-only loans of which $158 million are stated income loans, compared to $2.1 billion and $180 million respectively, at december 31, 2006. people united financial underwriting practices and credit review standards for such loans are generally consistent with those applied to other types of residential mortgage loan products. people united financial began originating interest-only residential mortgage loans in march 2003. the underwriting guidelines and requirements are more restrictive for interest-only loans than for amortizing adjustable rate mortgages. more specifically, properties must be single-family and owner-occupied primary residences, loan-to-value ratios are lower, higher credit scores are required, post closing reserve requirements are greater, and there are limits on cash-out refinances as compared to amortizing adjustable rate mortgages. amortization of an interest-only loan begins after the initial interest rate change (e.g. after 5 years for a 5/1 adjustable rate mortgage). stated income loans represent a form of reduced documentation loan that requires a potential borrower to complete a standard mortgage application with full verification of the borrower asset information as contained in the loan application, but no verification of the provided income information. as with interest-only loans, underwriting guidelines for stated income loans require properties to be single-family and owner-occupied primary residences with lower loan-to-value ratios and higher credit scores. in addition, stated income loans require the receipt of an appraisal for the real estate used as collateral and a credit report on the prospective borrower. people united financial loan loss experience within the residential mortgage portfolio in 2007 was consistent with the level of loan losses sustained in prior years and continues to be primarily attributable to a small number of loans. adjustable rate residential loans at december 31, 2007 decreased $682 million compared to year-end 2006, while fixed-rate mortgage loans decreased $5 million. total adjustable rate residential loans increased $395 million in 2006 compared to year-end 2005, while fixed-rate mortgage loans decreased $3 million. historically, people united financial has held virtually all of the adjustable-rate residential mortgage loans that it originates on its balance sheet and has sold virtually all of the fixed-rate residential mortgage loans that it originates into the secondary market. in 2006, people united financial completed a reassessment of its pricing with respect to adjustable-rate residential mortgage loans in light of the prevailing interest rate environment at that time. as a result, people united financial made the decision in the fourth quarter of 2006 to sell essentially all of its newly-originated residential mortgage loans. people united financial continues to actively offer residential mortgage loans of all types through its extensive distribution system. however, the level of adjustable-rate residential mortgage loans it originated was reduced significantly in 2007 and may decline further. 53 table of contents residential mortgage loan balances are expected to continue to decline in the future until people united financial resumes adding such loans to its portfolio to an extent that more than offsets repayments. the continued performance of the residential mortgage loan portfolio in 2008 may be adversely impacted by the level and direction of interest rates, consumer preferences and the regional economy. residential mortgage originations years ended december 31 (dollars in millions) residential mortgage originations by product year ended december 31, 2007 (percent) consumer lending as of december 31 (in millions) 2007 2006 home equity credit lines $ 938.5 $ 1,010.8 second mortgages 285.9 279.8 personal installment loans 10.8 14.1 other loans 15.6 16.6 total consumer $ 1,250.8 $ 1,321.3 people united financial offers connecticut-based customers home equity credit lines and second mortgage loans, and to a lesser extent, other forms of installment and revolving credit loans. in the first quarter of 2006, people began offering home equity credit lines and loans in massachusetts and new york. future growth of people united financial consumer loan portfolio is highly dependent upon economic conditions, the interest rate environment and competitors strategies, as well as the success of people united financial marketing programs and information-based strategies. at both december 31, 2007 and 2006, approximately 99% of the consumer loan portfolio was to customers located in connecticut. the decrease in consumer loans primarily reflects a decline in home equity lending. home equity loans decreased $66 million, or 5%, since year-end 2006, following a nationwide pattern. 54 table of contents commercial banking the commercial banking lending businesses include commercial real estate, commercial and industrial lending and equipment financing by pclc. shared national credits are included in the commercial real estate and commercial and industrial lending portfolios. in january 2008, people united financial announced its decision to unwind its shared national credits portfolio in an orderly manner over the next two to three years. commercial real estate as of december 31 (in millions) 2007 2006 property type: residential $ 514.3 $ 513.6 retail 460.7 390.7 office buildings 409.3 360.0 industrial/manufacturing 184.6 184.8 self storage/industrial 97.8 97.8 special use 71.5 47.4 land 52.3 61.4 health care 47.2 53.9 hospitality and entertainment 36.6 61.8 other properties 11.3 15.3 total commercial real estate $ 1,885.6 $ 1,786.7 people united financial manages the commercial real estate portfolio by limiting the concentration in any loan type, term, industry, or to any individual borrower. historically, people united financial primary strategy has been to focus on lending in the state of connecticut and adjacent states that represent its home market. in addition, people united financial will purchase interests in out-of-state loan participations. included in commercial real estate loans are shared national credits totaling $284 million, $209 million and $143 million at december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. people united financial highest loan concentration in the commercial real estate loan portfolio was in the residential sector, which represented 27% of this loan portfolio at december 31, 2007, compared to 29% at december 31, 2006 and 25% at year-end 2005. commercial real estate portfolio as of december 31 (dollars in millions) at december 31, 2007, approximately 65% of people united financial commercial real estate portfolio was secured by properties located in connecticut, compared to approximately 68% at december 31, 2006. in addition, approximately 16% of the commercial real estate portfolio was secured by properties located in new york and florida at december 31, 2007 and no other state exposure was greater than 5%. included in the commercial real estate portfolio are construction loans totaling $607 million, $541 million and $512 million at december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 55 table of contents commercial real estate is dependent on the successful operation of the related income-producing real estate. accordingly, the income streams generated by this portfolio can be impacted by changes in the real estate market and, to a large extent, connecticut economy. the commercial real estate portfolio increased 6% in 2007 after slightly (0.5%) increasing in 2006 and decreasing 3% in 2005. people united financial continues to focus on maintaining strong asset quality standards in a competitive market generally characterized by aggressive pricing and less attractive underwriting terms. the growth and performance of this portfolio is largely dependent on the economic environment in connecticut and may be adversely impacted if the economy slows in 2008. commercial real estate diversification as of december 31, 2007 (percent) commercial and industrial lending as of december 31 (in millions) 2007 2006 industry: finance, insurance and real estate $ 425.6 $ 354.7 manufacturing 386.1 412.1 service 268.6 230.2 wholesale distribution 153.3 119.9 retail sales 121.9 113.6 health services 115.4 108.5 arts/entertainment/recreation 51.7 61.8 transportation/utility 41.5 26.4 other 54.8 66.6 total commercial and industrial lending $ 1,618.9 $ 1,493.8 people united financial provides diversified products and services to its commercial customers, including short-term working capital credit facilities, term financing, asset-based loans, letters of credit, cash management services and commercial deposit accounts. commercial products are generally packaged together to create a financing solution specifically tailored to the needs of the customer. taking a total relationship-focused approach with commercial customers to meet their financing needs has resulted in substantial growth in non-interest-bearing deposits over time, as well as in opportunities to provide other banking services to principals and employees of these commercial customers. the borrower ability to repay a commercial loan is closely tied to the ongoing profitability and cash flow of the borrower business. consequently, a commercial loan tends to be more directly impacted by changes in economic cycles that affect businesses generally and the borrower business specifically. the availability of adequate collateral is a factor in commercial loan decisions, and loans are generally collateralized and/or guaranteed by third parties. 56 table of contents in 2007, the commercial and industrial lending portfolio increased $125 million, or 8%, compared to increases of $100 million, or 7%, in 2006 and $159 million or 13% in 2005. the increase in 2007 includes an $86 million, or 23%, increase in shared national credits, compared to an increase of $47 million, or 15%, for the full year of 2006. included in commercial lending are shared national credits totaling $454 million, $368 million and $321 million at december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. at december 31, 2007, approximately 66% of the commercial loan portfolio consisted of loans to connecticut-based businesses, compared to approximately 66% and 69% at december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. commercial loan exposure in the states of california and new york totaled 16% at december 31, 2007 and no other state exposure was greater than 5%. while people united financial continues to focus on asset quality, the performance of the commercial lending portfolio may be adversely impacted if the economy slows in 2008. commercial and industrial lending diversification as of december 31, 2007 (percent) commercial and industrial lending portfolio as of december 31 (dollars in millions) shared national credits at december 31, 2007, the shared national credits loan portfolio totaled $738 million, compared to $577 million and $464 million at december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and represented 16%, 14% and 12% of the total commercial banking loan portfolio at the respective dates. as discussed above, included in the shared national credits portfolio at december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were commercial loans totaling $454 million, $368 million and $321 million, respectively, and commercial real estate loans totaling $284 million, $209 million and $143 million, respectively. in january 2008, people united financial announced its decision to unwind its shared national credits portfolio in an orderly manner over the next two to three years. 57 table of contents people united financial will purchase interests in shared national credits from and to other financial institutions having comparable asset quality standards. at december 31, 2007, the shared national credits loan portfolio consisted only of loans purchased from other financial institutions. at december 31, 2007, approximately $53 million, or 7%, of the shared national credits loan portfolio consisted of borrowers who are headquartered in connecticut, while approximately $346 million, or 47%, consisted of borrowers located in california, florida and new york. no other state exposure was greater than 8%. pclc as of december 31 (in millions) 2007 2006 industry: printing $ 340.8 $ 308.9 transportation/utility 278.8 209.5 general manufacturing 143.7 141.6 retail sales 95.5 85.7 packaging 77.0 76.7 service 25.8 28.2 wholesale distribution 13.2 12.4 health services 6.7 6.8 total pclc $ 981.5 $ 869.8 pclc provides equipment financing for customers in 48 states, specializing in financing for the printing, transportation/utility, general manufacturing, retail sales and packaging industries. pclc will buy or sell portions of financing transactions in the secondary market to manage the concentration risk of the overall portfolio. at december 31, 2007, approximately 2% of the portfolio consisted of loans to connecticut-based businesses, while approximately 42% were loans to customers located in texas, california, florida, illinois and new york. no other state exposure was greater than 5%. the pclc portfolio grew $112 million, or 13%, in 2007, after increasing $235 million, or 37%, in 2006 and $182 million, or 40%, in 2005, reflecting management decision to grow this portfolio. operating on a national scale, pclc represented 22% of the commercial banking loan portfolio at december 31, 2007, compared to 21% and 17% at year-end 2006 and 2005, respectively. based on the level of growth in this portfolio, the percentage increase in 2008 may not continue at recent levels. pclc diversification as of december 31, 2007 (percent) 58 table of contents pclc loan portfolio as of december 31 (dollars in millions) asset quality the past several months have been marked by significant volatility in the financial and capital markets. this volatility has been attributable to a number of factors, including the fallout associated with the subprime mortgage market. this disruption has, in turn, led to credit and liquidity concerns which have resulted in a significant deterioration in activity within the secondary mortgage market. all of these issues have been further exacerbated by an accelerated softening of the real estate market. subprime mortgage lending, which has been the riskiest sector of the residential housing market, is not a market people united financial has ever pursued. further, people united financial has avoided exposure to similar, high-risk alt-a loans and structured investment vehicles. while people united financial continues to adhere to prudent underwriting standards, the loan portfolio is geographically diverse and, therefore, is not immune to potential negative consequences arising as a result of general economic weakness and, in particular, a sharp downturn in the housing market on a national scale. decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for loans. in addition, adverse changes in the economy could have a negative effect on the ability of borrowers to make scheduled loan payments, which would likely have an adverse impact on earnings. further, an increase in loan delinquencies may serve to decrease net interest income and adversely impact loan loss experience, resulting in an increased provision and allowance for loan losses. people united financial actively manages asset quality through its underwriting practices and collection operations. underwriting practices tend to focus on optimizing the return of a given risk classification while collection operations focus on minimizing losses once an account becomes delinquent. the allowance for loan losses is established through provisions for loan losses charged to income. losses on loans, including impaired loans, are charged to the allowance for loan losses when all or a portion of a loan is deemed to be uncollectible. recoveries of loans previously charged off are credited to the allowance for loan losses when realized. people united financial maintains the allowance for loan losses at a level that is believed to be adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio, based on a quarterly evaluation of a variety of factors. these factors include, but are not limited to: people united financial historical loan loss experience and recent trends in that experience; risk ratings assigned by lending personnel to commercial real estate, commercial and pclc loans, and the results of ongoing reviews of those ratings by people united financial independent loan review function; an evaluation of non-performing loans and related collateral values; the probability of loss in view of geographic and industry concentrations and other portfolio risk characteristics; the present financial condition of borrowers; and current economic conditions. although people united financial seeks to use the best available information to make these evaluations, future adjustments to the allowance for loan losses may be necessary based on changes in economic conditions, results of regulatory examinations, further information obtained regarding known problem loans, the identification of additional problem loans and other factors. 59 table of contents provision and allowance for loan losses the following table presents the activity in the allowance for loan losses and ratios: years ended december 31 (dollars in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 beginning allowance for loan losses $ 74.0 $ 75.0 $ 72.5 $ 70.5 $ 69.2 charge-offs: commercial (7.0 ) (5.2 ) (0.9 ) (0.6 ) (1.2 ) consumer (2.7 ) (3.4 ) (4.9 ) (9.7 ) (16.8 ) pclc (1.8 ) (0.6 ) (3.1 ) (1.5 ) (2.0 ) commercial real estate (0.1 ) (3.2 ) residential mortgage (0.1 ) (0.1 ) (0.2 ) (0.1 ) total charge-offs (11.5 ) (9.3 ) (9.1 ) (15.2 ) (20.1 ) recoveries: commercial 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.3 1.4 consumer 1.1 1.6 2.0 2.8 2.9 pclc 0.1 0.3 0.3 0.5 0.1 commercial real estate 0.1 2.5 0.1 0.1 0.2 residential mortgage 0.6 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.1 total recoveries 2.2 4.9 3.0 3.9 4.7 net loan charge-offs (9.3 ) (4.4 ) (6.1 ) (11.3 ) (15.4 ) provision for loan losses 8.0 3.4 8.6 13.3 16.7 ending allowance for loan losses $ 72.7 $ 74.0 $ 75.0 $ 72.5 $ 70.5 allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans 0.81 % 0.79 % 0.87 % 0.91 % 0.99 % allowance for loan losses as a percentage of non-performing loans 357.8 327.9 352.5 264.6 208.4 the provision for loan losses in 2007 totaled $8.0 million, a $4.6 million increase compared to $3.4 million in 2006. the 2007 period reflects $9.3 million in net loan charge-offs, partially offset by a $1.3 million reduction in the allowance for loan losses. the 2006 period reflected net loan charge-offs of $4.4 million and a $1.0 million reduction in the allowance for loan losses. net loan charge-offs increased $4.9 million in 2007 compared to 2006. the allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans was 0.81% at december 31, 2007 and 0.79% at december 31, 2006. commercial loan net charge-offs in 2007 include a $5.9 million charge-off relating to one commercial banking loan that was placed on non-accrual status in the fourth quarter of 2006 as previously disclosed. consumer loan net charge-offs decreased $0.2 million, or 10%, in 2007, as decreases of $0.3 million and $0.2 million in national consumer loan net charge-offs and charge-offs related to consumer overdrafts, respectively, were partially offset by a $0.2 million increase in home equity loan net charge-offs. net loan charge-offs as a percentage of average total loans equaled 0.10% in 2007, up from 0.05% in 2006, reflecting the $4.9 million increase in net loan charge-offs and the impact on the ratio of a $120 million, or 1%, increase in average loans, both as compared to 2006. the very low level of net loan charge-offs in terms of absolute dollars and as a percentage of average loans is unlikely to be sustainable in the future. the provision for loan losses decreased $5.2 million in 2006 compared to 2005, reflecting lower net loan charge-offs in 2006 and a $1.0 million reduction in the allowance for loan losses in 2006, compared to a $2.5 million increase in the allowance for loan losses in 2005. net loan charge-offs in 2006 declined $1.7 million, or 28%, compared to 2005. commercial loan net charge-offs in 2006 reflect a $4.0 million charge-off relating to 60 table of contents one commercial banking loan that was placed on non-accrual status in the second quarter of 2006. consumer loan net charge-offs decreased $1.2 million, or 39%, reflecting a $1.9 million decrease in national consumer loan net charge-offs. net loan charge-offs as a percentage of average total loans decreased 2 basis points to 0.05% in 2006 compared to 0.07% in 2005. in addition to the $1.7 million decrease in net loan charge-offs, the improvement in the net loan charge-off ratio reflected a $715 million, or 9%, increase in average total loans. net loan charge-offs (recoveries) as a percentage of average total loans years ended december 31 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 commercial 0.44 % 0.34 % 0.04 % 0.03 % (0.02 )% pclc 0.19 0.04 0.54 0.27 0.77 consumer 0.13 0.14 0.24 0.66 1.48 commercial real estate (0.01 ) (0.14 ) 0.18 (0.02 ) residential mortgage (0.02 ) total portfolio 0.10 % 0.05 % 0.07 % 0.15 % 0.22 % the following table presents the allocation of the allowance for loan losses by loan category and the percentage of loans in each category to total loans: 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 as of december 31 (dollars in millions) amount percent of loan portfolio amount percent of loan portfolio amount percent of loan portfolio amount percent of loan portfolio amount percent of loan portfolio commercial real estate $ 27.9 21.0 % $ 27.5 19.1 % $ 30.5 20.7 % $ 30.5 23.1 % $ 28.0 23.9 % commercial 24.7 18.1 27.5 15.9 25.5 16.3 23.5 15.6 21.5 14.6 pclc 18.3 11.0 16.0 9.3 13.0 7.4 10.5 5.7 8.5 4.2 consumer 1.1 14.0 2.0 14.1 3.0 14.7 5.0 14.4 9.5 13.8 residential mortgage 0.7 35.9 1.0 41.6 3.0 40.9 3.0 41.2 3.0 43.5 total allowance for loan losses $ 72.7 100.0 % $ 74.0 100.0 % $ 75.0 100.0 % $ 72.5 100.0 % $ 70.5 100.0 % based on a review of trends in key factors used in determining the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses allocated by type of loan, including portfolio growth and changes in risk classifications, people united financial decreased the allowance for loan losses and the provision for loan losses by $2.8 million for the commercial loan portfolio (reflecting the favorable resolution of one non-performing commercial loan discussed above), by $0.3 million for the residential mortgage loan portfolio and by $0.9 million for the consumer loan portfolio (reflecting continued decreases in the national consumer loan portfolio balances). these decreases were partially offset by an increase to the allowance for loan losses and a corresponding increase to the provision for loan losses by $2.3 million for the pclc loan portfolio (reflecting loan growth in 2007) and by $0.2 million for the commercial real estate loan portfolio. as a result of these changes, the total allowance for loan losses declined by $1.3 million in 2007. a loan is classified as non-accrual generally when it becomes 90 days past due as to interest or principal payments. all previously accrued but unpaid interest on non-accrual loans is reversed from interest income in the current period. interest payments received on non-accrual loans (including impaired loans) are generally applied as a reduction of principal if future collections are doubtful, although such interest payments may be recognized 61 table of contents as income. a loan remains on non-accrual status until the factors that indicated doubtful collectibility no longer exist or until a loan is determined to be uncollectible and is charged off against the allowance for loan losses. the classification of a loan as non-performing does not necessarily indicate that loan principal and interest ultimately will not be collected. people united financial historical experience suggests that a portion of these assets will eventually be recovered. all non-performing loans are in various stages of collection, workout, settlement or foreclosure. when loan workout efforts are exhausted and it is determined that the borrower is unable to repay the obligation, people united financial will complete foreclosure procedures, if applicable. restructured commercial and commercial real estate loans are those for which concessions to below market terms, such as below market interest rates or deferral of interest, have been granted due to the borrowers financial condition. non-performing assets the following table presents information regarding non-accrual loans, restructured loans, real estate owned and repossessed assets: as of december 31 (dollars in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 non-accrual loans: residential mortgage $ 8.9 $ 6.7 $ 6.7 $ 7.5 $ 11.4 commercial real estate 3.7 0.2 5.8 8.7 11.4 consumer 3.3 1.7 1.3 0.9 2.5 pclc 3.1 2.1 6.2 5.1 4.2 commercial 1.3 11.9 1.3 5.2 3.3 total non-accrual loans 20.3 22.6 21.3 27.4 32.8 restructured loans 1.0 total non-performing loans 20.3 22.6 21.3 27.4 33.8 real estate owned ( reo ) and repossessed assets, net 5.8 0.1 0.7 1.2 0.5 total non-performing assets $ 26.1 $ 22.7 $ 22.0 $ 28.6 $ 34.3 non-performing loans as a percentage of total loans 0.23 % 0.24 % 0.25 % 0.35 % 0.48 % non-performing assets as a percentage of total loans, reo and repossessed assets 0.29 0.24 0.26 0.36 0.48 non-performing assets as a percentage of stockholders equity and allowance for loan losses 0.58 1.61 1.62 2.25 3.20 total non-performing assets increased $3.4 million, or 15%, from december 31, 2006 and were 0.29% of total loans, real estate owned and repossessed assets at december 31, 2007. increases in non-performing commercial real estate loans of $3.5 million, reo and repossessed assets of $5.7 million, non-performing pclc loans of $1.0 million and non-performing residential mortgage loans of $2.2 million, were partially offset by a decrease of $10.6 million in non-performing commercial loans. the decrease in non-performing commercial loans primarily reflects the $5.9 million charge-off related to one loan discussed above. the increase in non-performing commercial real estate loans reflects one loan totaling $3.4 million that was classified as non-performing in 2007. the increase in reo and repossessed assets primarily reflects the repossession of a printing press and ancillary equipment from one borrower and the transfer to real estate owned of the real estate securing the remaining balance of the non-performing commercial loan discussed above. total non-performing assets at december 31, 2006 increased $0.7 million, or 3%, from december 31, 2005 and improved 2 basis points to 0.24% of total loans, real estate owned and repossessed assets at december 31, 2006. reductions of $5.6 million and $4.1 million in non-performing commercial real estate and pclc loans, respectively, were essentially offset by a $10.6 million increase in non-performing commercial loans. the net increase in non-performing commercial loans since december 31, 2005 reflects one $10.6 million loan that was classified as non-performing in the fourth quarter of 2006. the decrease in non-performing commercial real 62 table of contents estate loans since december 31, 2005 reflects the favorable resolution of one non-performing loan that generated a $2.3 million cash recovery. the level of non-performing assets is expected to fluctuate in response to changing economic and market conditions, and the relative sizes of the respective loan portfolios, along with management degree of success in resolving problem assets. at december 31, 2007, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003, people united financial portfolio did not include any loans, not included in the table above, which are troubled debt restructurings as defined in sfas no. 15, accounting by debtors and creditors for troubled debt restructurings. as of december 31, 2007, if all non-accruing loans had been current in accordance with their terms and had been outstanding throughout 2007 or since origination if held for part of the year, the gross interest income that would have been recorded in 2007 on such loans would have amounted to approximately $2.3 million. the amount of interest income on the non-accruing loans included in net income in 2007 was $0.7 million. off-balance-sheet arrangements detailed discussions pertaining to people united financial off-balance-sheet arrangements are included in the following sections: funding, liquidity, capital and market risk management. funding at the current time, people united financial primary funding sources are deposits and stockholders equity, which represent 98% of total assets at december 31, 2007. borrowings also are an available source of funding. based on people united bank membership in the federal home loan bank of boston and the level of qualifying collateral available at december 31, 2007, people united bank had up to $3.1 billion of borrowing capacity in the form of advances from the federal home loan bank of boston and federal reserve bank, and repurchase agreements. people united bank also had unsecured borrowing capacity of $1.1 billion at december 31, 2007. deposits 2007 2006 2005 as of december 31 (dollars in millions) amount weighted average rate amount weighted average rate amount weighted average rate core deposits: non-interest-bearing $ 2,136.8 % $ 2,269.0 % $ 2,299.0 % savings, interest-bearing checking and money market 2,997.3 1.44 3,192.0 1.39 3,749.8 1.29 total 5,134.1 0.84 5,461.0 0.81 6,048.8 0.80 time deposits maturing: within 6 months 2,428.3 4.67 2,282.7 4.50 1,299.5 2.94 after 6 months but within 1 year 1,033.6 4.56 980.2 4.63 958.1 3.44 after 1 but within 2 years 158.4 3.74 220.8 3.65 496.4 3.64 after 2 but within 3 years 37.0 3.54 45.4 3.14 89.1 2.86 after 3 years 43.9 4.03 49.2 3.88 61.4 3.47 total 3,701.2 4.58 3,578.3 4.46 2,904.5 3.23 total core deposits 8,835.3 2.41 9,039.3 2.26 8,953.3 1.59 non-core deposits 45.3 0.87 43.3 0.98 129.3 2.07 total deposits $ 8,880.6 2.40 % $ 9,082.6 2.25 % $ 9,082.6 1.59 % 63 table of contents people united financial strategy is to focus on increasing deposits by providing a wide range of convenient services to individuals, corporations and municipalities. people united financial provides customers access to their deposits through 79 traditional branches, 75 full-service stop &amp; shop supermarket branches, seven limited-service branches, over 250 atms, telephone banking and an internet banking site that is fully integrated with people united financial brokerage subsidiary, psi. core deposits equaled 65% and 85% of total assets at december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. while core deposits declined by $204 million, or 2%, from year-end 2006, the change in the relative percentage of total assets reflects the $2.9 billion increase in total assets primarily with the net proceeds from the second-step conversion. core deposits and stockholders equity constituted over 99% of people united financial funding base at december 31, 2007 and over 98% at december 31, 2006. the expansion of people united financial branch network and its commitment to developing full-service relationships with its customers are integral components of people united financial strategy to leverage the success of its supermarket banking initiative, expand market share and continue growing deposits. at december 31, 2007, people united financial statewide network of stop &amp; shop branches held deposits totaling $2.1 billion and deposits in supermarket branches open for more than one year averaged $28 million per store. in 2007, people united financial expanded into westchester county in new york state by opening 2 new traditional branches in scarsdale and mount kisco. people united financial plans to continue its branch expansion by opening both traditional and stop &amp; shop branches in connecticut and traditional branches in new york. non-interest-bearing deposits are an important source of low-cost funding and fee income for people united financial. in addition, people united financial believes that checking accounts represent one of the core relationships between a financial institution and its customers, and it is from these relationships that cross-selling of other financial services can be achieved. non-interest-bearing core deposits equaled 24% and 25% of core deposits at december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. time deposits of $100,000 or more totaled $972 million at december 31, 2007, of which $463 million mature within three months, $234 million mature after three months but within six months, $243 million mature after six months but within one year and $32 million mature after one year. there were no brokered certificates of deposit at december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. commercial deposits fund a significant portion of the loan portfolio. average non-interest-bearing commercial deposits totaled $883 million in 2007, a $56 million, or 6%, decrease compared to 2006. average non-interest-bearing commercial deposits decreased by $43 million, or 4%, in 2006, after increasing by $43 million, or 5%, in 2005. the decreases in 2007 and 2006 are reflective of the interest rate environment in each year. the following table presents, by rate category, time deposits as of december 31, 2007. as of december 31 (in millions) 2007 3.00% or less $ 253.5 3.01% to 3.50% 119.0 3.51% to 4.00% 265.4 4.01% to 4.50% 570.5 4.51% to 5.00% 1,906.3 5.01% to 5.50% 590.9 total $ 3,705.6 64 table of contents the following table presents, by rate category, the remaining period to maturity of time deposits outstanding as of december 31, 2007. period to maturity from december 31, 2007 (in millions) within three months over three to six months over six months to one year over one to two years over two to three years over three years total 3.00% or less $ 77.8 $ 57.1 $ 69.8 $ 33.8 $ 13.1 $ 1.9 $ 253.5 3.01% to 3.50% 24.0 24.0 35.0 30.6 5.4 119.0 3.51% to 4.00% 37.0 88.2 62.6 28.7 13.6 35.3 265.4 4.01% to 4.50% 171.6 187.8 148.7 60.2 1.8 0.4 570.5 4.51% to 5.00% 1,063.0 419.9 413.4 3.3 2.0 4.7 1,906.3 5.01% to 5.50% 156.9 125.2 304.3 1.8 1.1 1.6 590.9 total $ 1,530.3 $ 902.2 $ 1,033.8 $ 158.4 $ 37.0 $ 43.9 $ 3,705.6 total core deposits as of december 31 (dollars in millions) non-interest-bearing deposits as of december 31 (dollars in millions) borrowings 2007 2006 2005 as of december 31 (dollars in millions) amount weighted average rate amount weighted average rate amount weighted average rate overnight federal funds purchased $ % $ 4.1 5.15 % $ 269.9 3.94 % fhlb advances maturing within 1 month 25.0 4.00 total borrowings $ % $ 4.1 5.15 % $ 294.9 3.94 % 65 table of contents people united financial had no outstanding borrowings at december 31, 2007, compared to $4.1 million, or less than 0.5% of total assets at december 31, 2006. people united financial uses federal funds purchased as a source of funds, which are typically unsecured overnight loans among banks. sources include three of the twelve regional federal home loan banks and several money center and large regional banks. in previous years, people united financial primary source for borrowings was advances from the federal home loan bank of boston, which provides credit for member institutions within its assigned region. people united financial outstanding federal home loan bank advances at december 31, 2005 represented less than one-half of one percent of total assets. at december 31, 2007 and 2006, there were no outstanding federal home loan bank advances. the average balances of people united financial advances from the federal home loan bank of boston during 2007, 2006 and 2005 were $0.1 million, $47 million and $50 million, respectively, and the maximum federal home loan bank advances outstanding during 2007, 2006 and 2005 were $1 million, $155 million and $190 million, respectively. another source of funds in previous years has been repurchase agreements. these transactions involve the sale of securities to broker/dealers under agreements to repurchase the same (or substantially the same) securities. repurchase agreements with broker/dealers are limited to reporting federal reserve dealers in government securities that have been approved by people united financial board of directors. subordinated notes at december 31, 2007 and 2006, people united bank had $65 million of 9.875% subordinated notes outstanding. these subordinated notes are due in 2010 and are unsecured general obligations of people united bank with interest payable semi-annually, are subordinated to the claims of depositors and people united bank other creditors and are not redeemable prior to maturity. they qualify, up to certain limits, as supplementary (tier 2) capital for risk-based capital purposes. contractual cash obligations the following table is a summary of people united financial contractual cash obligations, other than deposit liabilities, including operating leases. additional information concerning these contractual cash obligations is included in notes 11, 12 and 21 to the consolidated financial statements. purchase obligations included in the table represent those agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transactions. a substantial majority of people united financial purchase obligations are renewable on a year-to-year basis. as such, the purchase obligations included in this table only reflect the contractual commitment. payments due by period as of december 31, 2007 (in millions) total less than 1 year 1-3 years 4-5 years after 5 years subordinated notes $ 65.4 $ $ 65.4 $ $ total on-balance-sheet 65.4 65.4 operating leases 154.4 24.7 46.4 30.5 52.8 purchase obligations 98.1 38.3 36.4 19.9 3.5 total $ 317.9 $ 63.0 $ 148.2 $ 50.4 $ 56.3 fin 48 income tax liabilities totaling $1.4 million, including related interest and penalties, are not included in the above table as the timing of their resolution cannot be estimated. see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of people united financial uncertain income tax positions. 66 table of contents liquidity liquidity is defined as the ability to generate sufficient cash flows to meet all present and future funding requirements at reasonable costs. liquidity management addresses people united financial and people united bank ability to fund new loans and investments as opportunities arise, to meet customer deposit withdrawals and to repay borrowings and subordinated notes as they mature. people united financial s, as well as people united bank s, liquidity positions are monitored daily by management. the asset and liability management committee ( alco ) of people united bank has been authorized by the board of directors of people united financial to set guidelines to ensure maintenance of prudent levels of liquidity for people united financial as well as for people united bank. alco reports to the treasury and finance committee of the board of directors of people united bank. asset liquidity is provided by: cash; short-term investments; proceeds from security sales, maturities and principal repayments; and proceeds from scheduled principal collections, prepayments and sales of loans. in addition, certain securities may be used to collateralize borrowings under repurchase agreements. the consolidated statements of cash flows present data on cash provided by and used in people united financial operating, investing and financing activities. at december 31, 2007, people united financial liquid assets included $428 million in securities purchased under agreements to resell. people united bank liquid assets included $2.4 billion in cash and cash equivalents, $42 million in debt securities available for sale and $19 million in trading account securities. securities available for sale with a total fair value of $22 million at december 31, 2007 were pledged as collateral for public deposits and for other purposes. liability liquidity is measured by people united financial and people united bank ability to obtain core deposits and purchased funds at cost-effective rates that are diversified with respect to markets and maturities. core deposits, which are considered the most stable source of liability liquidity, totaled $8.8 billion at december 31, 2007, compared to $9.0 billion at december 31, 2006 (representing 66% and 86% of total funding at the respective dates). while core deposits declined $204 million, or 2%, since year-end 2006, the change in relative percentage mix of total funding is primarily due to the substantial increase in stockholders equity with the net proceeds from the second-step conversion. purchased funds can be used from time to time to diversify people united financial funding mix and to support asset growth. purchased funds totaled $45 million at december 31, 2007 and $47 million at december 31, 2006 (representing 0.3% and 0.5% of total funding at the respective dates). people united bank current sources of purchased funds include: federal funds purchased, advances from the federal home loan bank of boston and the federal reserve bank of new york, municipal deposits and repurchase agreements. at december 31, 2007, people united bank borrowing limit from federal home loan bank and federal reserve bank advances, and repurchase agreements totaled $3.1 billion, based on the level of qualifying collateral available for these borrowing sources and in addition, people united bank had unsecured borrowing capacity of $1.1 billion. at december 31, 2007, people united bank had outstanding commitments to originate loans totaling $951 million and approved, but unused, lines of credit extended to customers totaling $2.7 billion (including $1.6 billion of home equity lines of credit). see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements. 67 table of contents the sources of liquidity discussed above are deemed by management to be sufficient to fund outstanding loan commitments and to meet people united financial and people united bank other obligations. earning asset mix $12.5 billion as of december 31, 2007 (percent) funding base $13.4 billion as of december 31, 2007 (percent) capital people united financial total stockholders equity was $4.45 billion at december 31, 2007, a $3.11 billion net increase from december 31, 2006. this increase primarily reflects the $3.33 billion of net proceeds from the second-step conversion, net income of $150.7 million, a common stock contribution with a fair value of $40.0 million to the people united community foundation and a $29.4 million decrease in accumulated other comprehensive loss ( aocl ) since december 31, 2006, partially offset by purchases of common stock for the esop and 2007 recognition and retention plan totaling $343.9 million and dividends paid in 2007 of $131.1 million. the decrease in aocl reflects a $16.8 million after-tax increase in net actuarial loss, prior service costs and transition obligation on pension and other postretirement benefits, and a $12.6 million after-tax increase in the net unrealized gain on derivatives accounted for as cash flow hedges. people united financial total stockholders equity was $1.34 billion at december 31, 2006, a $51 million net increase compared to $1.29 billion at december 31, 2005. this increase primarily reflects net income of $124.0 million, partially offset by dividends paid in 2006 of $60.0 million and a $24.6 million increase in aocl since december 31, 2005. the net increase in aocl primarily reflects a $40.0 million after-tax increase from the adoption of sfas no. 158, employers accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans, effective december 31, 2006, partially offset by a $18.9 million after-tax reduction in the net unrealized loss on securities available for sale due to the sales of securities in 2006. dividends declared and paid per common share (other than shares on which people mutual holdings waived receipt of dividends prior to completing the second-step conversion in april 2007) were $0.52, $0.46 and $0.40 for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. people united financial dividend payout ratio (dividends paid as a percentage of net income) for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was 87.0%, 48.3% and 38.3%, respectively. the increase in the dividend payout ratio reflects the waiver of 68 table of contents dividends on the substantial majority of the common shares owned by people mutual holdings prior to completing the second-step conversion in april 2007. stockholders equity equaled 32.8% of total assets at december 31, 2007, compared to 12.5% at december 31, 2006. capital requirements. ots capital regulations require federally chartered savings banks, such as people united bank, to meet three minimum capital ratios: tangible capital ratio a 1.5% tangible capital ratio, calculated as tangible capital to adjusted total assets. leverage (core) capital ratio a 4% leverage (core) capital ratio, calculated as core capital to adjusted total assets. the minimum leverage (core) capital ratio is reduced to 3% if the savings bank received the highest rating on its most recent safety and soundness examination. risk-based capital ratio an 8% total risk-based capital ratio, calculated as total capital to risk-weighted assets. for purposes of this calculation, total capital includes core and supplementary capital, provided that supplementary capital may not exceed 100% of core capital. in assessing an institution capital adequacy, the ots takes into consideration not only these numeric factors but also qualitative factors as well, and has the authority to establish higher capital requirements for individual institutions where necessary. people united bank, as a matter of prudent management, targets as its goal the maintenance of capital ratios which exceed these minimum requirements and that are consistent with people united bank risk profile. the following summary compares people united bank regulatory capital amounts and ratios as of december 31, 2007 to the ots minimum requirements. in 2007, people united financial made a $1.7 billion capital contribution to people united bank from a portion of the net proceeds from the second-step conversion. people united bank adjusted total assets, as defined, totaled $12.1 billion at december 31, 2007 and its risk-weighted assets, as defined, totaled $9.0 billion at december 31, 2007. at december 31, 2007, people united bank exceeded each of its capital requirements. as of december 31, 2007 (dollars in millions) people united bank ots minimum requirements amount ratio amount ratio tangible capital $ 2,903.8 (1) 24.1 % $ 180.8 1.5 % leverage (core) capital 2,903.8 (1) 24.1 482.1 4.0 total risk-based capital 3,001.0 (2) 33.4 719.2 8.0 (1) represents total stockholders equity, excluding (i) after-tax net unrealized gains (losses) on debt and certain equity securities classified as available for sale, (ii) after-tax net unrealized losses on derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges, (iii) certain assets not recognized in tier 1 capital (principally goodwill and other acquisition-related intangibles), and (iv) the amount recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) relating to sfas no. 158. (2) represents tier 1 capital plus subordinated notes, up to certain limits, and the allowance for loan losses up to 1.25% of risk-adjusted total assets. 69 table of contents people united bank regulatory capital ratios at december 31, 2007 exceeded the ots numeric criteria for classification as well capitalized. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information concerning people united bank regulatory capital amounts and ratios. people united bank capital ratios compared to regulatory requirements as of december 31, 2007 (percent) market risk management market risk is the risk of loss to earnings, capital and the fair market values of certain assets and liabilities resulting from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. interest rate risk for people united bank, the only relevant market risk at this time is interest rate risk ( irr ), which is the potential exposure to earnings or capital that may result from changes in interest rates. people united bank actively manages its irr to achieve a balance between risk, earnings volatility and capital preservation. alco has primary responsibility for managing people united bank irr. to evaluate people united bank irr profile, alco monitors economic conditions, interest rate trends, liquidity levels and capital ratios. management also reviews assumptions periodically for projected customer and competitor behavior, in addition to the expected repricing characteristics and cash flow projections for assets, liabilities and off-balance-sheet financial instruments. actual conditions may vary significantly from people united bank assumptions. management evaluates the impact of irr on income at risk using an earnings simulation model to project earnings under multiple interest rate environments over a one-year time horizon resulting in a quantification of irr. income at risk includes significant interest rate sensitive income sources, such as net interest income, gains on sales of residential mortgage loans and boli income. the earnings projections are based on a static balance sheet and estimates of pricing levels for people united bank products under multiple scenarios intended to reflect instantaneous yield curve shocks. people united bank estimates its base case income at risk using current interest rates. internal guidelines regarding irr simulation specify that for instantaneous parallel shifts of the yield curve, estimated income at risk for the subsequent one-year period should not decline by more than: 10% for a 100 basis point shift; 15% for a 200 basis point shift; and 20% for a 250 basis point shift. 70 table of contents the following table shows the estimated percentage increase (decrease) in people united bank income at risk over a one-year simulation period beginning december 31, 2007. rate change (basis points) percent change in income at risk +300 24.05 % +200 16.73 +100 8.14 -100 (6.47 ) -200 (13.98 ) -250 (18.31 ) while income at risk simulation identifies earnings exposure over a relatively short time horizon, market value of equity ( mve ) takes a long-term economic perspective when quantifying irr. mve identifies possible margin behavior over a longer time horizon and is therefore a valuable complement of interest rate risk management. base case mve is calculated by estimating the net present value of all future cash flows from existing assets and liabilities using current interest rates. the base case scenario assumes that future interest rates remain unchanged. internal guidelines limit the exposure of a decrease in mve resulting from instantaneous parallel shifts of the yield curve in the following manner: for 100 basis points 10% of base case mve; for 200 basis points 15% of base case mve; and for 250 basis points 20% of base case mve. the following table shows the estimated percentage decrease in people united bank mve, assuming various shifts in interest rates. rate change (basis points) percent change in market value of equity +300 (3.57)% +200 (1.78) +100 (0.55) -100 (0.62) -200 (1.98) -250 (2.67) management believes people united bank interest rate risk position at december 31, 2007 represents an acceptable level of risk. however, given the uncertainty of the magnitude, timing and direction of future interest rate movements and the shape of the yield curve, actual results may vary from those predicted by people united bank models. people united bank uses derivative financial instruments, including interest rate floors and interest rate swaps, as components of its irr management. people united bank has written guidelines that have been approved by its board of directors and alco governing the use of these financial instruments, including approved counterparties and risk limits, and controls the credit risk of these instruments through collateral, credit approvals and monitoring procedures. at december 31, 2007, each of people united bank counterparties had an investment grade credit rating from the major rating agencies and is specifically approved up to a maximum credit exposure. derivative financial instruments have been used for market risk management purposes (principally interest rate risk) and not for trading or speculative purposes. people united bank is currently using interest rate floors and interest rate swaps to manage irr associated with certain interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. people united bank is currently using interest rate floors to partially manage its exposure to a decrease in interest income resulting from declines in certain interest rates. these interest rate floors offer protection against a decline in interest income if the one-month libor-index rate used to reprice certain floating-rate commercial loans declines below the strike rate 71 table of contents on the interest rate floors. if the one-month libor-index rate falls below the specified strike rate, people united bank would receive an interest payment on the interest rate floor equal to the difference between the one-month libor-index rate on the reset date and the strike rate, which in effect, would offset the decline in interest income earned on the hedged floating rate commercial loans from the decline in interest rates. interest rate floors are accounted for as cash flow hedges. interest rate swaps are used to match more closely the repricing of fewer than five commercial real estate loans and the funding associated with these loans. the interest rate swaps effectively convert the funding liabilities from a variable interest rate into a fixed interest rate and consequently reduce people united bank exposure to increases in interest rates and their effect on interest income and interest expense. interest rate swaps are accounted for as fair value hedges. foreign currency risk foreign exchange forward contracts are commitments to buy or sell foreign currency on a future date at a contractual price. people united bank uses these instruments on a limited basis to eliminate its exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates on certain of its commercial loans that are denominated in foreign currencies. gains and losses on foreign exchange contracts substantially offset the translation gains and losses on the related loans. derivative financial instruments the following table summarizes certain information concerning derivative financial instruments utilized by people united bank in its management of irr. also see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements. as of and for the year ended december 31, 2007 (dollars in millions) interest rate floors interest rate swaps foreign exchange contracts notional amount at year end $ 700.0 $ 6.7 $ 13.1 weighted average remaining term to maturity (in months) 37 65 1 decrease in pre-tax income $ (3.1 ) $ $ fair value: recognized as an asset 27.6 0.1 recognized as a liability 0.4 as of and for the year ended december 31, 2006 (dollars in millions) interest rate floors interest rate swaps foreign exchange contracts notional amount at year end $ 700.0 $ 6.9 $ 13.1 weighted average remaining term to maturity (in months) 49 77 2 decrease in pre-tax income $ (0.8 ) $ $ fair value: recognized as an asset 11.5 recognized as a liability 0.2 0.3 72 table of contents statement of management responsibility management is responsible for the preparation, content and integrity of the consolidated financial statements and all other information included in this annual report. the consolidated financial statements and related footnotes are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. management is also responsible for compliance with laws and regulations relating to safety and soundness as designated by the office of thrift supervision. the board of directors has an audit committee composed of five outside directors, each of whom meets the criteria for independence as set forth in applicable listing standards. the audit committee meets regularly with the independent auditors, the internal auditors and management to ensure that the system of internal control over financial reporting is being properly administered and that financial data is being properly reported. the audit committee reviews the scope and timing of internal audits, including recommendations made with respect to the system of internal control over financial reporting. the independent auditors and the internal auditors have free access to the audit committee. management report on internal control over financial reporting management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting for people united financial, inc. management maintains a system of internal control over financial reporting, including an internal audit function, which is designed to provide reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded against loss from unauthorized use or disposition, transactions are properly authorized, and that accounting records are reliable for the preparation of financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that internal control over financial reporting may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. in order to evaluate the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, as required by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act, management has conducted an assessment, including testing, using the criteria in internal control integrated framework, issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission ( coso ). based on its assessment, management has concluded that people united financial, inc. maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2007, based on criteria in internal control integrated framework issued by the coso. /s/ philip r. sherringham philip r. sherringham president, chief executive officer and chief financial officer february 28, 2008 73 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition people united financial makes most of its earnings based on the difference between interest it earns compared to interest it pays. this difference is called the interest spread. people united financial earns interest on loans and to a much lesser extent on securities and short-term investments. these are called interest-earning assets. people united financial pays interest on some forms of deposits and on funds it borrows from other sources. these are called interest-bearing liabilities. people united financial interest spread can change depending on when interest rates earned on interest-earning assets change, compared to when interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities change. some rate changes occur while these assets or liabilities are still on people united financial books. other rate changes occur when these assets or liabilities mature and are replaced by new interest-earning assets or interest-bearing liabilities at different rates. it may be difficult to replace interest-earning assets quickly, since customers may not want to borrow money when interest rates are high, or people united financial may not be able to make loans that meet its lending standards. people united financial interest spread may also change based on the mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. people united financial interest spread may be lower if the timing of interest rate changes is different for its interest-earning assets compared to its interest-bearing liabilities. for example, if interest rates go down, people united financial will earn less on some of its interest-earning assets while it is still locked into paying higher rates on some of its interest-bearing liabilities. on the other hand, if interest rates go up, people united financial might have to pay more on some of its interest-bearing liabilities while it is still locked in to receiving lower rates on some of its interest-earning assets. people united financial manages this risk using many different techniques. if it is not successful in managing this risk, people united financial may be less profitable. changes in our asset quality could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition asset quality measures the performance of a borrower in repaying a loan, with interest, on time. in recent years, we have benefited from consistently strong asset quality. it is unlikely that our asset quality will remain as strong as it has been for the past several years, particularly if the economy continues to deteriorate. the success of our stop &amp; shop branches depends on the success of the stop &amp; shop brand one element of our strategy is to focus on increasing deposits by providing a wide range of convenient services to our customers. an integral component of this strategy is people united financial supermarket banking initiative, pursuant to which, as of december 31, 2008, people united financial has established 79 full-service stop &amp; shop branches that provide customers with the convenience of seven-day-a-week banking. at december 31, 2008, 26% of people united financial branches were located in stop &amp; shop supermarkets. people united financial currently has exclusive branching rights in stop &amp; shop supermarkets in the state of connecticut, in the form of a license agreement between the stop &amp; shop supermarket company and people united financial, which provides for the leasing of space to people united financial within stop &amp; shop supermarkets for branch use. people united financial has the exclusive right to branch in these supermarkets until 2012, provided that people united financial does not default on its obligations under the licensing agreement. people united financial has the option to extend the license agreement until 2022. 13 table of contents stop &amp; shop is currently the leading grocery store in connecticut, with nearly twice the market share of its closest competitor, according to modern grocer. the success of people united financial supermarket branches is dependent, in part, on the success of the stop &amp; shop supermarkets in which they are located. a drop in stop &amp; shop market share, a decrease in the number of stop &amp; shop locations or customers, or a decline in the overall quality of stop &amp; shop supermarkets could result in decreased business for the stop &amp; shop branches, in the form of fewer loan originations, lower deposit generation and fewer overall branch transactions, and could influence market perception of people united financial stop &amp; shop supermarket branches as convenient banking locations. under the terms of the license agreement, people united financial has the obligation to open branches in new connecticut stop &amp; shop locations through 2012, even if stop &amp; shop market share declines or the value of the stop &amp; shop brand is diminished. we depend on our executive officers and key personnel to continue the implementation of our long-term business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services we believe that our continued growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management team. the competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry can be intense, and the loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. our business is affected by the international, national, regional and local economy generally, and the geographic concentration of our loan portfolio and lending activities makes us vulnerable to a downturn in the local economy changes in international, national, regional and local economic conditions affect our business. if economic conditions change significantly or quickly, our business operations could suffer, and we could become weaker financially as a result. at december 31, 2008, approximately 42% of people united financial loans by outstanding principal amount were to people and businesses located in the state of connecticut, or involved property located in connecticut. as a result of people united financial acquisition of chittenden $5.7 billion loan portfolio, approximately 33% of the total loan portfolio at december 31, 2008 represents loans to customers located in vermont, new hampshire and massachusetts. how well we perform depends very much on the health of these economies, particularly connecticut, and we expect that to remain true for the foreseeable future. last year, connecticut residents, on average, earned more than the residents of any other state in the country. connecticut unemployment rate at december 31, 2008 was 7.1%, in-line with the national rate. if the general economic situation deteriorates, or there are negative trends in the stock market, the new england economy could suffer more than the national economy. this would be especially likely in fairfield county, connecticut, where people united financial has many of its branches and where many of its customers reside, because of the large number of fairfield county residents who are professionals in the financial services industry. people united financial could experience losses in its real estate-related loan portfolios if the prices for housing and other kinds of real estate decreased significantly in new england. even though connecticut (especially fairfield county) has some of the highest housing prices in the country, property values can decrease. this has happened before (as recently as the early 1990s), and prices have been declining since the second half of 2007. decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for our loans. adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. in addition, if poor economic 14 table of contents conditions result in decreased demand for real estate loans, our profits may decrease because our other investments may earn less income for us than real estate loans. during 2008 and 2007, there has been a decline in the housing and real estate markets and in the general economy, both nationally and locally with some reports indicating that the national economy is bordering on a recession. housing market conditions in the northeast quadrant of the united states, where most of our lending activity occurs, have deteriorated during 2008 as evidenced by reduced levels of sales, increasing inventories of houses on the market, declining house prices and an increase in the length of time houses remain on the market. no assurance can be given that these conditions will improve or will not worsen or that such conditions will not result in a decrease in our interest income, an increase in our non-performing loans, an increase in our provision for loan losses or an adverse impact on our loan losses. the second half of 2007 and all of 2008 has been highlighted by significant disruption and volatility in the financial and capital marketplaces. this turbulence has been attributable to a variety of factors, including the fallout associated with the sub-prime mortgage market. one aspect of this fallout has been significant deterioration in the activity of the secondary residential mortgage market. the disruptions have been exacerbated by the acceleration of the decline of the real estate and housing market. no assurance can be given that these conditions will improve or will not worsen or that such conditions will not result in a decrease in our interest income or an adverse impact on our loan losses. in response to competitive pressures, our costs could increase if we were required to increase our service and convenience levels or our margins could decrease if we were required to increase deposit rates or lower interest rates on loans people united financial faces significant competition for deposits and loans. in deciding where to deposit their money, many people look first at the interest rate they will earn. they also might think about whether the bank offers other kinds of services they might need and, if they have ever been a customer of the bank before, what their experience was like. people also like convenience, so the number of offices and banking hours may be important. some people also think that on-line services are important. people united financial competes with other banks, credit unions, brokerage firms and money market funds for deposits. some people may decide to buy bonds or similar kinds of investments issued by companies or by the u.s., state and local governments and agencies, instead of opening a deposit account. in making decisions about loans, many people look first at the interest rate they will have to pay. they also think about any extra fees they might have to pay in order to get the loan. some people also think about whether the bank offers other kinds of services they might need and, if they have ever been a customer of the bank before, what their experience was like. many business loans are more complicated because there may not be a standard kind of loan that meets all of the customer needs. business borrowers look at many different factors that are not all financial in nature. examples include the kind and amount of security the lender wants and other terms of the loan that do not involve the interest rate. people united financial competes with other banks, credit unions, credit card issuers, finance companies, mortgage lenders and mortgage brokers for loans. insurance companies also compete with people united financial for some kinds of commercial loans. many of people united financial competitors have branches in the same market area as it does. some of them are much larger than it is. the new england region, including connecticut, which is people united financial predominant market, and specifically fairfield county, where people united financial is headquartered, is an attractive banking market. many locally-based banks have been acquired by large regional and national companies in the last several years. we expect this trend to continue. this means that there are not 15 table of contents as many competitors in our market as there used to be, but the ones that are left are usually bigger and have more resources than the ones they acquired. people united financial also has competition from outside its own market area. a bank that does not have any branches in new england can still have customers here by providing banking services on-line. it costs money to set up and maintain a branch system. banks that do not spend as much money as people united financial does on branches might be more profitable than it is, even if they pay higher interest on deposits and charge lower interest on loans. changes in federal and state regulation could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition the banking business is heavily regulated by the federal and state governments. banking laws and rules are for the most part intended to protect depositors, not stockholders. banking laws and rules can change at any time. the government agencies responsible for supervising people united financial business can also change the way they interpret these laws and rules, even if the rules themselves do not change. we need to make sure that our business activities comply with any changes in these rules or the interpretation of the rules. we might be less profitable if we have to change the way we conduct business in order to comply. our business might suffer in other ways as well. changes in state and federal tax laws can make our business less profitable. changes in the accounting rules we are required to follow may also make us less profitable. changes in the government economic and monetary policies may hurt our ability to compete for deposits and loans. changes in these policies can also make it more expensive for us to do business. the government agencies responsible for supervising our business can take drastic action if they think we are not conducting business safely or are too weak financially. they can force people united financial to hold additional capital, pay higher deposit insurance premiums, stop paying dividends, stop making certain kinds of loans or stop offering certain kinds of deposits. if the agencies took any of these steps or other similar steps, it would probably make our business less profitable. the ots letter dated july 3, 2006 approving, among other things, people united bank conversion from a connecticut savings bank to a federal savings bank, granted people united bank (1) a phase-in period of three years from the date of its conversion to a federal savings bank, august 18, 2006, to comply with the home owners loan act commercial loan limits, with the ability to seek an additional one-year extension if necessary; and (2) an exception from the qualified thrift lender test for a period of four years from the date of its conversion to a federal charter. the manner in which the ots interprets or applies its phase-in period can also make it more expensive for us to do business, make our business less profitable and limit our strategic flexibility. if people united financial allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings would decrease people united financial is exposed to the risk that customers will not be able to repay their loans. this risk is inherent in the lending business. there is also the risk that the customer collateral will not be sufficient to cover the balance of their loan, as underlying collateral values fluctuate with market changes. people united financial records an allowance for loan losses to cover probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio. the allowance for loan losses is established through provisions for loan losses charged to income. losses on loans, including impaired loans, are charged to provision expense or to the allowance for loan losses when all or a portion of a loan is deemed to be uncollectible. recoveries of loans previously charged off are credited to the allowance for loan losses when realized. 16 table of contents people united financial maintains the allowance for loan losses at a level that is deemed adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio, based on a quarterly evaluation of a variety of factors. these factors include, but are not limited to: its historical loan loss experience and recent trends in that experience; risk ratings assigned by lending personnel to commercial real estate, commercial and pclc loans, and the results of ongoing reviews of those ratings by its independent loan review function; an evaluation of delinquent and non-performing loans and related collateral values; the probability of loss in view of geographic and industry concentrations and other portfolio risk characteristics; the present financial condition of borrowers; and current economic conditions. while people united financial seeks to use the best available information to make these evaluations, and at december 31, 2008, management believed that the allowance for loan losses was adequate to cover probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio, it is possible that borrower defaults could exceed the current estimates for loan losses, which would reduce earnings. in addition, future increases to the allowance for loan losses may be necessary based on changes in economic conditions, results of regulatory examinations, further information obtained regarding known problem loans, increasing charge-offs of existing problem loans, or the identification of additional problem loans and other factors, which would also reduce earnings. people united financial may fail to successfully complete the integration of chittenden operations and realize all of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. on january 1, 2008, people united financial acquired the chittenden corporation and its six banks. the ultimate success of the acquisition will depend, in part, on the ability of people united financial to realize the anticipated benefits from combining the businesses of people united financial and chittenden. however, to realize these anticipated benefits, people united financial must successfully combine the businesses of people united financial and chittenden. if people united financial is not able to achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 70 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk management market risk is the risk of loss to earnings, capital and the fair values of certain assets and liabilities resulting from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. interest rate risk for people united financial, the only relevant market risk at this time is interest rate risk ( irr ), which is the potential exposure to earnings or capital that may result from changes in interest rates. people united financial manages its irr to achieve a balance between risk, earnings volatility and capital preservation. alco has primary responsibility for managing people united financial irr. to evaluate people united financial irr profile, alco monitors economic conditions, interest rate trends, liquidity levels and capital ratios. management also reviews assumptions periodically for projected customer and competitor behavior, in addition to the expected repricing characteristics and cash flow projections for assets, liabilities and off-balance-sheet financial instruments. actual conditions may vary significantly from people united financial assumptions. management evaluates the impact of irr on income at risk using an earnings simulation model to project earnings under multiple interest rate environments over a one-year time horizon resulting in a quantification of irr. income at risk includes significant interest rate sensitive income sources, such as net interest income, gains on sales of residential mortgage loans and boli income. the earnings projections are based on a static balance sheet and estimates of pricing levels for people united financial products under multiple scenarios intended to reflect instantaneous yield curve shocks. people united financial estimates its base case income at risk using current interest rates. internal policy regarding irr simulations specify that for instantaneous parallel shifts of the yield curve, estimated income at risk for the subsequent one-year period should not decline by more than: 10% for a 100 basis point shift; 15% for a 200 basis point shift; and 20% for a 300 basis point shift. the following table shows the estimated percentage increase (decrease) in people united financial income at risk over a one-year simulation period beginning december 31, 2008. given the interest rate environment at december 31, 2008, simulations for declines in interest rates below 25 basis points were not deemed to be meaningful. rate change (basis points) percent change in income at risk +300 29.0 % +200 18.9 +100 8.6 -25 (2.6 ) while income at risk simulation identifies earnings exposure over a relatively short time horizon, equity at risk takes a long-term economic perspective when quantifying irr, thereby identifying possible margin behavior over a longer time horizon. base case market value of equity ( mve ) is calculated by estimating the net present value of all future cash flows from existing assets and liabilities using current interest rates. the base case scenario assumes that future interest rates remain unchanged. internal policy limits the exposure of a decrease in equity at risk resulting from instantaneous parallel shifts of the yield curve in the following manner: for 100 basis points 10% of base case mve; for 200 basis points 15% of base case mve; and for 300 basis points 20% of base case mve. 70 table of contents the following table shows the estimated percentage increase (decrease) in people united financial equity at risk, assuming various shifts in interest rates. given the interest rate environment at december 31, 2008, simulations for declines in interest rates below 25 basis points were not deemed to be meaningful. rate change (basis points) percent change in equity at risk +300 (1.8 )% +200 (1.2 ) +100 (0.8 ) -25 0.1 people united financial interest rate risk position at december 31, 2008, as set forth in the income at risk and equity at risk tables above, reflects its significant excess capital position at that date. management current posture is to invest a portion of such excess capital in highly liquid, low risk, short-term investments. while this strategy does place additional pressure on net interest income in a decreasing rate environment, management views such risk as an acceptable alternative in light of the current credit environment where capital has proven vital to the continued viability of many institutions. given the uncertainty of the magnitude, timing and direction of future interest rate movements and the shape of the yield curve, actual results may vary from those predicted by people united financial models. people united financial asset-sensitive balance sheet includes more than just its significant excess capital position. in fact, a 1% increase in interest rates translates to an approximate $50 million improvement in pre-tax income. conversely, if the current 25 basis points targeted federal funds rate is annualized and compared to the 2.10% average federal funds rate experienced in 2008, the resultant 185 basis point differential translates into an approximate $90 million reduction in pre-tax income. people united financial uses derivative financial instruments, including interest rate floors and interest rate swaps, as components of its irr management. people united financial has written guidelines that have been approved by its board of directors and alco governing the use of these financial instruments, including approved counterparties and credit limits. credit risk associated with these instruments is controlled and monitored though policies and procedures governing collateral management and credit approval. at december 31, 2008, each of people united financial counterparties had an investment grade credit rating from the major rating agencies and is specifically approved up to a maximum credit exposure. people united financial counterparty credit exposure on its outstanding derivative contracts, after considering the effect of the bilateral netting arrangements and posted collateral, totaled $22.6 million at december 31, 2008. derivative financial instruments are primarily used for market risk management purposes (principally interest rate risk). certain other derivatives are entered into in connection with transactions with commercial customers. derivatives are not used for speculative purposes. at december 31, 2008, people united financial was using interest rate floors and interest rate swaps to manage irr associated with certain interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. people united financial uses interest rate floors to partially manage its exposure to a decrease in interest income resulting from declines in certain interest rates. these interest rate floors offer protection against a decline in interest income if the one-month libor-index rate used to reprice certain floating-rate commercial loans declines below the strike rate on the interest rate floors. if the one-month libor-index rate falls below the specified strike rate, people united financial would receive an interest payment on the interest rate floor equal to the difference between the one-month libor-index rate on the reset date and the strike rate, which in effect, would offset the decline in interest income earned on the hedged floating rate commercial loans from the decline in interest rates. interest rate floors are accounted for as cash flow hedges. interest rate swaps are used to match more closely the repricing of fewer than five commercial real estate loans and the funding associated with these loans. the interest rate swaps effectively convert the funding 71 table of contents liabilities from a variable interest rate into a fixed interest rate and consequently reduce people united bank exposure to increases in interest rates and their effect on interest income and interest expense. interest rate swaps are accounted for as fair value hedges. by using derivatives, people united financial is exposed to credit risk to the extent that counterparties to the derivative contracts do not perform as required. should a counterparty fail to perform under the terms of a derivative contract, the company counterparty credit risk is equal to the amount reported as a derivative asset in the consolidated statements of condition. amounts reported as derivative assets represent derivative contracts in a gain position, net of derivatives in a loss position with the same counterparty (to the extent subject to master netting arrangements) and posted collateral. people united financial seeks to minimize counterparty credit risk through credit approvals, limits, monitoring procedures, execution of master netting arrangements and obtaining collateral, where appropriate. counterparty credit risk related to derivatives is considered and, if material, provided for separately. in connection with the september 2008 bankruptcy filing by lehman brothers holdings, inc., people united financial terminated its $100 million (notional) derivative contract (interest rate floor) with lehman brothers. the derivative contract had a fair value of $5.3 million at the time of termination. after considering the master netting arrangement and posted collateral, the net amount due to the company was $1.4 million. people united financial recognized a $1.2 million charge that is included in other non-interest expense in the consolidated statements of income to reduce this receivable to the amount currently estimated to be realizable. foreign currency risk foreign exchange forward contracts are commitments to buy or sell foreign currency on a future date at a contractual price. people united financial uses these instruments on a limited basis to eliminate its exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates on certain of its commercial loans that are denominated in foreign currencies. gains and losses on foreign exchange contracts substantially offset the translation gains and losses on the related loans. 72 table of contents derivative financial instruments the following table summarizes certain information concerning derivative financial instruments utilized by people united financial in its management of irr and foreign currency risk. also see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. as of and for the year ended december 31, 2008 (dollars in millions) interest rate floors interest rate swaps foreign exchange contracts notional principal amounts $ 600.0 $ 6.4 $ 11.6 weighted average remaining term to maturity (in months) 25 52 1 increase (decrease) in pre-tax income $ 10.2 $ (0.2 ) $ fair value: recognized as an asset 46.3 recognized as a liability 0.8 0.5 as of and for the year ended december 31, 2007 (dollars in millions) interest rate floors interest rate swaps foreign exchange contracts notional principal amounts $ 700.0 $ 6.7 $ 13.1 weighted average remaining term to maturity (in months) 37 65 1 decrease in pre-tax income $ (3.1 ) $ $ fair value: recognized as an asset 27.6 0.1 recognized as a liability 0.4 in the third quarter of 2008, people united financial began entering into interest rate swaps with certain of its commercial customers. in order to minimize its risk, these customer derivatives have been offset with essentially matching interest rate swaps with people united financial counterparties. changes in the fair value of all such interest rate swaps are recognized in current earnings. the following table summarizes certain information concerning these interest rate swaps: as of and for the year ended december 31, 2008 (dollars in millions) interest rate swaps customer counterparty notional principal amounts $ 60.3 $ 60.3 weighted average remaining term to maturity (in months) 124 124 increase (decrease) in pre-tax income $ 7.3 $ (6.9 ) fair value: recognized as an asset 7.3 recognized as a liability 6.9 in the first quarter of 2009, people united financial terminated its remaining $600 million (notional) interest rate floor contracts. the decision to do so was based on management belief that, in light of the current interest rate environment, the derivative contracts had achieved their stated market risk management objective. termination of the derivative contracts also served to reduce the company counterparty credit risk. at the time of termination, the interest rate floors had a fair value (unrealized gain) of $47.5 million. in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 133, the unrealized gain is included (on a net-of-tax basis) as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss and will be recognized over the period during which the hedged items (certain floating rate commercial loans) affect earnings (approximately 2 years). 73 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition people united financial makes most of its earnings based on the difference between interest it earns compared to interest it pays. this difference is called the interest spread. people united financial earns interest on loans and to a much lesser extent on securities and short-term investments. these are called interest-earning assets. people united financial pays interest on some forms of deposits and on funds it borrows from other sources. these are called interest-bearing liabilities. people united financial interest spread can change depending on when interest rates earned on interest-earning assets change, compared to when interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities change. some rate changes occur while these assets or liabilities are still on people united financial books. other rate changes occur when these assets or liabilities mature and are replaced by new interest-earning assets or interest-bearing liabilities at different rates. it may be difficult to replace interest-earning assets quickly, since customers may not want to borrow money when interest rates are high, or people united financial may not be able to make loans that meet its lending standards. people united financial interest spread may also change based on the mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. people united financial interest spread may be lower if the timing of interest rate changes is different for its interest-earning assets compared to its interest-bearing liabilities. for example, if interest rates go down, people united financial will earn less on some of its interest-earning assets while it is still locked into paying higher rates on some of its interest-bearing liabilities. on the other hand, if interest rates go up, people united financial might have to pay more on some of its interest-bearing liabilities while it is still locked in to receiving lower rates on some of its interest-earning assets. people united financial manages this risk using many different techniques. if it is not successful in managing this risk, people united financial may be less profitable. changes in our asset quality could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition asset quality measures the performance of a borrower in repaying a loan, with interest, on time. in recent years, we have benefited from consistently strong asset quality. it is possible that our asset quality could deteriorate, depending upon economic conditions. the success of our stop &amp; shop branches depends on the success of the stop &amp; shop brand one element of our strategy is to focus on increasing deposits by providing a wide range of convenient services to our customers. an integral component of this strategy is people united financial supermarket banking initiative, pursuant to which, as of december 31, 2009, people united financial has established 81 full-service stop &amp; shop branches that provide customers with the convenience of seven-day-a-week banking. at december 31, 2009, 28% of people united financial branches were located in stop &amp; shop supermarkets. 13 table of contents people united financial currently has exclusive branching rights in stop &amp; shop supermarkets in the state of connecticut, in the form of a license agreement between the stop &amp; shop supermarket company and people united financial, which provides for the leasing of space to people united financial within stop &amp; shop supermarkets for branch use. people united financial has the exclusive right to branch in these supermarkets until 2012, provided that people united financial does not default on its obligations under the licensing agreement. people united financial has the option to extend the license agreement until 2022. stop &amp; shop is currently the leading grocery store in connecticut, with nearly twice the market share of its closest competitor, according to modern grocer. the success of people united financial supermarket branches is dependent, in part, on the success of the stop &amp; shop supermarkets in which they are located. a drop in stop &amp; shop market share, a decrease in the number of stop &amp; shop locations or customers, or a decline in the overall quality of stop &amp; shop supermarkets could result in decreased business for the stop &amp; shop branches, in the form of fewer loan originations, lower deposit generation and fewer overall branch transactions, and could influence market perception of people united financial stop &amp; shop supermarket branches as convenient banking locations. under the terms of the license agreement, people united financial has the obligation to open branches in new connecticut stop &amp; shop locations through 2012, even if stop &amp; shop market share declines or the value of the stop &amp; shop brand is diminished. we depend on our executive officers and key personnel to continue the implementation of our long-term business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services we believe that our continued growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management team. the competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry can be intense, and the loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. our business is affected by the international, national, regional and local economy generally, and the geographic concentration of our loan portfolio and lending activities makes us vulnerable to a downturn in the local economy changes in international, national, regional and local economic conditions affect our business. if economic conditions change significantly or quickly, our business operations could suffer, and we could become weaker financially as a result. at december 31, 2009, approximately 81% of people united financial loans by outstanding principal amount were to people and businesses located in new england, or involved property located in new england. how well we perform depends very much on the health of the new england economy, particularly connecticut, and we expect that to remain true for the foreseeable future. last year, connecticut residents, on average, earned more than the residents in all but one state in the country. connecticut unemployment rate at december 31, 2009 was 8.9%, slightly below the national rate. if the general economic situation deteriorates, or there are negative trends in the stock market, the new england economy could suffer more than the national economy. this would be especially likely in fairfield county, connecticut, where people united financial has many of its branches and where many of its customers reside, because of the large number of fairfield county residents who are professionals in the financial services industry. people united financial could experience losses in its real estate-related loan portfolios if the prices for housing and other kinds of real estate decreased significantly in new england. even though connecticut (especially fairfield county) has some of the highest housing prices in the country, property values can decrease. this has happened before (as recently as the early 1990s), and prices have been declining since the second half of 2007. 14 table of contents decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for our loans. adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. in addition, if poor economic conditions result in decreased demand for real estate loans, our profits may decrease because our other investments may earn less income for us than real estate loans. in recent years, there has been a decline in the housing and real estate markets and in the general economy, both nationally and locally. housing market conditions in the new england region of the united states, where most of our lending activity occurs, have deteriorated as evidenced by reduced levels of sales, increasing inventories of houses on the market, declining house prices and an increase in the length of time houses remain on the market. no assurance can be given that these conditions will improve or will not worsen or that such conditions will not result in a decrease in our interest income, an increase in our non-performing loans, an increase in our provision for loan losses or an adverse impact on our loan losses. the second half of 2007 and all of 2008 were highlighted by significant disruption and volatility in the financial and capital marketplaces. this turbulence has been attributable to a variety of factors, including the fallout associated with the sub-prime mortgage market. one aspect of this fallout has been significant deterioration in the activity of the secondary residential mortgage market. the disruptions have been exacerbated by the acceleration of the decline of the real estate and housing market. no assurance can be given that these conditions will improve or will not worsen or that such conditions will not result in a decrease in our interest income or an adverse impact on our loan losses. in response to competitive pressures, our costs could increase if we were required to increase our service and convenience levels or our margins could decrease if we were required to increase deposit rates or lower interest rates on loans people united financial faces significant competition for deposits and loans. in deciding where to deposit their money, many people look first at the interest rate they will earn. they also might think about whether the bank offers other kinds of services they might need and, if they have ever been a customer of the bank before, what their experience was like. people also like convenience, so the number of offices and banking hours may be important. some people also think that on-line services are important. people united financial competes with other banks, credit unions, brokerage firms and money market funds for deposits. some people may decide to buy bonds or similar kinds of investments issued by companies or by the u.s., state and local governments and agencies, instead of opening a deposit account. in making decisions about loans, many people look first at the interest rate they will have to pay. they also think about any extra fees they might have to pay in order to get the loan. some people also think about whether the bank offers other kinds of services they might need and, if they have ever been a customer of the bank before, what their experience was like. many business loans are more complicated because there may not be a standard kind of loan that meets all of the customer needs. business borrowers look at many different factors that are not all financial in nature. examples include the kind and amount of security the lender wants and other terms of the loan that do not involve the interest rate. people united financial competes with other banks, credit unions, credit card issuers, finance companies, mortgage lenders and mortgage brokers for loans. insurance companies also compete with people united financial for some kinds of commercial loans. 15 table of contents many of people united financial competitors have branches in the same market area as it does. some of them are much larger than it is. the new england region, including connecticut, which is people united financial predominant market, and specifically fairfield county, where people united financial is headquartered, is an attractive banking market. many locally-based banks have been acquired by large regional and national companies in the last several years. we expect this trend to continue. this means that there are not as many competitors in our market as there used to be, but the ones that are left are usually bigger and have more resources than the ones they acquired. people united financial also has competition from outside its own market area. a bank that does not have any branches in new england can still have customers here by providing banking services on-line. it costs money to set up and maintain a branch system. banks that do not spend as much money as people united financial does on branches might be more profitable than it is, even if they pay higher interest on deposits and charge lower interest on loans. changes in federal and state regulation could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition the banking business is heavily regulated by the federal and state governments. banking laws and rules are for the most part intended to protect depositors, not stockholders. banking laws and rules can change at any time. the government agencies responsible for supervising people united financial business can also change the way they interpret these laws and rules, even if the rules themselves do not change. we need to make sure that our business activities comply with any changes in these rules or the interpretation of the rules. we might be less profitable if we have to change the way we conduct business in order to comply. our business might suffer in other ways as well. changes in state and federal tax laws can make our business less profitable. changes in the accounting rules we are required to follow may also make us less profitable. changes in the government economic and monetary policies may hurt our ability to compete for deposits and loans. changes in these policies can also make it more expensive for us to do business. the government agencies responsible for supervising our business can take drastic action if they think we are not conducting business safely or are too weak financially. they can force people united financial to hold additional capital, pay higher deposit insurance premiums, stop paying dividends, stop making certain kinds of loans or stop offering certain kinds of deposits. if the agencies took any of these steps or other similar steps, it would probably make our business less profitable. the ots letter dated july 3, 2006 approving, among other things, people united bank conversion from a connecticut savings bank to a federal savings bank, granted people united bank (i) a phase-in period of three years from the date of its conversion to a federal savings bank, august 18, 2006, to comply with the home owners loan act commercial loan limits, with the ability to seek an additional one-year extension if necessary (subsequently extended to january 2011); and (ii) an exception from the qualified thrift lender test for a period of four years from the date of its conversion to a federal charter. the manner in which the ots interprets or applies its phase-in period can also make it more expensive for us to do business, make our business less profitable and limit our strategic flexibility. 16 table of contents if people united financial allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings would decrease people united financial is exposed to the risk that customers will not be able to repay their loans. this risk is inherent in the lending business. there is also the risk that the customer collateral will not be sufficient to cover the balance of their loan, as underlying collateral values fluctuate with market changes. people united financial records an allowance for loan losses to cover probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio. the allowance for loan losses is established through provisions for loan losses charged to income. losses on loans, including impaired loans, are charged to provision expense or to the allowance for loan losses when all or a portion of a loan is deemed to be uncollectible. recoveries of loans previously charged off are credited to the allowance for loan losses when realized. people united financial maintains the allowance for loan losses at a level that is deemed adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio, based on a quarterly evaluation of a variety of factors. these factors include, but are not limited to: its historical loan loss experience and recent trends in that experience; risk ratings assigned by lending personnel to commercial real estate, commercial and pclc loans, and the results of ongoing reviews of those ratings by its independent loan review function; an evaluation of delinquent and non-performing loans and related collateral values; the probability of loss in view of geographic and industry concentrations and other portfolio risk characteristics; the present financial condition of borrowers; and current economic conditions. while people united financial seeks to use the best available information to make these evaluations, and at december 31, 2009, management believed that the allowance for loan losses was adequate to cover probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio, it is possible that borrower defaults could exceed the current estimates for loan losses, which would reduce earnings. in addition, future increases to the allowance for loan losses may be necessary based on changes in economic conditions, results of regulatory examinations, further information obtained regarding known problem loans, increasing charge-offs of existing problem loans, or the identification of additional problem loans and other factors, which would also reduce earnings. our goodwill may be determined to be impaired at a future date depending on the results of periodic impairment tests people united financial tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if necessary. according to applicable accounting requirements, acceptable valuation methods include present-value measurements based on multiples of earnings or revenues, or similar performance measures. if the quoted market price for people united financial common stock were to decline significantly, or if it was determined that the carrying amount of our goodwill exceeded its implied fair value, we would be required to write down the asset recorded for goodwill as reflected in the consolidated statements of condition. this, in turn, would result in a charge to earnings and, thus, a reduction in stockholders equity. see critical accounting policies and notes 1, 3 and 8 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information concerning people united financial goodwill and the required impairment tests. people united financial may fail to successfully integrate acquired companies and realize all of the anticipated benefits of an acquisition the ultimate success of an acquisition will depend, in part, on the ability of people united financial to realize the anticipated benefits from combining the businesses of people united financial with those of an acquired company. however, to realize these anticipated benefits, people united financial must successfully combine its business with an acquired company. if people united financial is not able to achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of a merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. 17 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 73 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk management market risk is the risk of loss to earnings, capital and the fair values of certain assets and liabilities resulting from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. interest rate risk for people united financial, the only relevant market risk at this time is interest rate risk ( irr ), which is the potential exposure to earnings or capital that may result from changes in interest rates. people united financial manages its irr to achieve a balance between risk, earnings volatility and capital preservation. alco has primary responsibility for managing people united financial irr. to evaluate people united financial irr profile, alco monitors economic conditions, interest rate trends, liquidity levels and capital ratios. management also reviews assumptions periodically for projected customer and competitor behavior, in addition to the expected repricing characteristics and cash flow projections for assets, liabilities and off-balance-sheet financial instruments. actual conditions may vary significantly from people united financial assumptions. management evaluates the impact of irr on income at risk using an earnings simulation model to project earnings under multiple interest rate environments over a one-year time horizon resulting in a quantification of irr. income at risk includes significant interest rate sensitive income sources, such as net interest income, gains on sales of residential mortgage loans and boli income. the earnings projections are based on a static balance sheet and estimates of pricing levels for people united financial products under multiple scenarios intended to reflect instantaneous yield curve shocks. people united financial estimates its base case income at risk using current interest rates. internal policy regarding irr simulations specify that for instantaneous parallel shifts of the yield curve, estimated income at risk for the subsequent one-year period should not decline by more than: 10% for a 100 basis point shift; 15% for a 200 basis point shift; and 20% for a 300 basis point shift. the following table shows the estimated percentage increase (decrease) in people united financial income at risk over a one-year simulation period beginning december 31, 2009. given the interest rate environment at december 31, 2009, simulations for declines in interest rates below 25 basis points were not deemed to be meaningful. rate change (basis points) percent change in income at risk +300 31.2 % +200 20.0 +100 9.2 -25 (2.2 ) while income at risk simulation identifies earnings exposure over a relatively short time horizon, equity at risk takes a long-term economic perspective when quantifying irr, thereby identifying possible margin behavior over a longer time horizon. base case market value of equity ( mve ) is calculated by estimating the net present value of all future cash flows from existing assets and liabilities using current interest rates. the base case scenario assumes that future interest rates remain unchanged. internal policy limits the exposure of a decrease in equity at risk resulting from instantaneous parallel shifts of the yield curve in the following manner: for 100 basis points 10% of base case mve; for 200 basis points 15% of base case mve; and for 300 basis points 20% of base case mve. 73 table of contents the following table shows the estimated percentage increase (decrease) in people united financial equity at risk, assuming various shifts in interest rates. given the interest rate environment at december 31, 2009, simulations for declines in interest rates below 25 basis points were not deemed to be meaningful. rate change (basis points) percent change in equity at risk +300 (0.5 )% +200 +100 0.3 -25 (0.3 ) people united financial interest rate risk position at december 31, 2009, as set forth in the income at risk and equity at risk tables above, reflects its significant excess capital position at that date. management current posture is to invest a portion of such excess capital in highly liquid, low risk, short-term investments and securities resale agreements. while this strategy does place additional pressure on net interest income in a low rate environment, management views such risk as an acceptable alternative in light of the current credit environment where capital has proven vital to the continued viability of many institutions. given the uncertainty of the magnitude, timing and direction of future interest rate movements and the shape of the yield curve, actual results may vary from those predicted by people united financial models. people united financial asset-sensitive balance sheet includes more than just its significant excess capital position. in fact, a 100 basis point increase in the federal finds interest rate translates to an approximate $100 million improvement in net interest income on an annualized basis. people united financial uses derivative financial instruments, including interest rate floors (see below) and interest rate swaps, primarily for market risk management purposes (principally interest rate risk). certain other derivatives are entered into in connection with transactions with commercial customers. derivatives are not used for speculative purposes. at december 31, 2009, people united financial used interest rate swaps on a limited basis to manage irr associated with certain interest-earning assets. interest rate swaps are used to match more closely the repricing of fewer than five commercial real estate loans and the funding associated with these loans. the interest rate swaps effectively convert the fixed rate assets to a variable interest rate and consequently reduce people united financial exposure to increases in interest rates. interest rate swaps are accounted for as fair value hedges. in the first quarter of 2009, people united financial terminated its remaining $600 million (notional amount) interest rate floor contracts. the decision to do so was based on management belief that, in light of the current interest rate environment, the derivative contracts had achieved their stated market risk management objective. termination of the derivative contracts also served to reduce the company counterparty credit risk. at the time of termination, the interest rate floors had an unrealized gain of $40.1 million. the gain is included (on a net-of-tax basis) as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss and is being recognized in income over the period during which the hedged items (certain floating rate commercial loans) affect earnings (approximately 2 years). a total of $19.9 million of this gain was recognized in income during the year ended december 31, 2009 and the remaining unrecognized gain at december 31, 2009 was $20.2 million. the portion of the unrecognized gain at december 31, 2009 that is expected to be recognized in income over the next 12 months totals approximately $19.6 million. 74 table of contents in connection with the september 2008 bankruptcy filing by lehman brothers holdings, inc., people united financial terminated its $100 million (notional) derivative contract (interest rate floor) with lehman brothers. the derivative contract had a fair value of $5.3 million at the time of termination. after considering the master netting arrangement and posted collateral, the net amount due from the counterparty was $1.4 million. people united financial recognized a $1.2 million charge in 2008 and a $0.2 million credit in 2009 to adjust this receivable to the estimated realizable amount. people united financial has written guidelines that have been approved by its board of directors and alco governing the use of derivative financial instruments, including approved counterparties and credit limits. credit risk associated with these instruments is controlled and monitored through policies and procedures governing collateral management and credit approval. by using derivatives, people united financial is exposed to credit risk to the extent that counterparties to the derivative contracts do not perform as required. should a counterparty fail to perform under the terms of a derivative contract, the company counterparty credit risk is equal to the amount reported as a derivative asset in the consolidated statements of condition. amounts reported as derivative assets represent derivative contracts in a gain position, net of derivatives in a loss position with the same counterparty (to the extent subject to master netting arrangements) and posted collateral. people united financial seeks to minimize counterparty credit risk through credit approvals, limits, monitoring procedures, execution of master netting arrangements and obtaining collateral, where appropriate. at december 31, 2009, counterparties to people united financial derivatives primarily represent major financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings from the major rating agencies. as such, management believes the risk of incurring losses on derivative contracts related to credit risk is remote and losses, if any, would be immaterial. certain of people united financial derivative contracts contain provisions establishing collateral requirements (subject to minimum collateral posting thresholds) based on the company external credit rating. if the company senior unsecured debt rating were to fall below the level generally recognized as investment grade, the counterparties to such derivative contracts could require additional collateral on those derivative transactions in a net liability position (after considering the effect of bilateral netting arrangements and posted collateral). the aggregate fair value of derivative instruments with such credit-related contingent features that were in a net liability position at december 31, 2009 was $0.5 million, for which people united financial had posted no collateral in the normal course of business. if the company senior unsecured debt rating had fallen below investment grade as of that date, no additional collateral would have been required. foreign currency risk foreign exchange contracts are commitments to buy or sell foreign currency on a future date at a contractual price. people united financial uses these instruments on a limited basis to eliminate its exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates on certain of its commercial loans that are denominated in foreign currencies. gains and losses on foreign exchange contracts substantially offset the translation gains and losses on the related loans. 75 table of contents derivative financial instruments the following table summarizes certain information concerning derivative financial instruments utilized by people united financial in its management of irr and foreign currency risk. also see note 22 to the consolidated financial statements. as of december 31 (dollars in millions) 2009 2008 interest rate swaps: notional principal amounts $ 6.0 $ 6.4 weighted average interest rates: pay fixed (receive floating) 5.60%(0.24 %) 5.60%(1.90 %) weighted average remaining term to maturity (in months) 39 52 fair value recognized as a liability $ 0.5 $ 0.8 foreign exchange contracts: notional principal amounts $ 9.6 $ 11.6 weighted average remaining term to maturity (in months) 1 1 fair value recognized as an asset $ 0.1 $ fair value recognized as a liability 0.5 interest rate floors: notional principal amounts $ $ 600.0 weighted average strike rate 5.00 % weighted average remaining term to maturity (in months) 25 fair value recognized as an asset $ $ 46.3 in the third quarter of 2008, people united financial began entering into interest rate swaps with certain of its commercial customers. in order to minimize its risk, these customer derivatives have been offset with essentially matching interest rate swaps with people united financial counterparties. changes in the fair value of all such interest rate swaps are recognized in current earnings. the following table summarizes certain information concerning these interest rate swaps: as of december 31, 2009 (dollars in millions) interest rate swaps customer counterparty notional principal amounts $ 294.8 $ 294.8 weighted average interest rates: pay fixed (receive floating) 0.24%(3.32 %) 3.25%/(0.24 %) weighted average remaining term to maturity (in months) 95 95 fair value: recognized as an asset $ 3.0 $ 6.6 recognized as a liability 5.6 2.5 as of december 31, 2008 (dollars in millions) interest rate swaps customer counterparty notional principal amounts $ 60.3 $ 60.3 weighted average interest rates: pay fixed (receive floating) 1.90%(3.93 %) 3.84%/(1.90 %) weighted average remaining term to maturity (in months) 124 124 fair value: recognized as an asset $ 7.3 $ recognized as a liability 6.9 76 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition people united financial makes most of its earnings based on the difference between interest it earns compared to interest it pays. this difference is called the interest spread. people united financial earns interest on loans and to a much lesser extent on securities and short-term investments. these are called interest-earning assets. people united financial pays interest on some forms of deposits and on funds it borrows from other sources. these are called interest-bearing liabilities. people united financial interest spread can change depending on when interest rates earned on interest-earning assets change, compared to when interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities change. some rate changes occur while these assets or liabilities are still on people united financial books. other rate changes occur when these assets or liabilities mature and are replaced by new interest-earning assets or interest-bearing liabilities at different rates. it may be difficult to replace interest-earning assets quickly, since customers may not want to borrow money when interest rates are high, or people united financial may not be able to make loans that meet its lending standards. people united financial interest spread may also change based on the mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. people united financial interest spread may be lower if the timing of interest rate changes is different for its interest-earning assets compared to its interest-bearing liabilities. for example, if interest rates go down, people united financial will earn less on some of its interest-earning assets while it is still locked into paying higher rates on some of its interest-bearing liabilities. on the other hand, if interest rates go up, people united financial might have to pay more on some of its interest-bearing liabilities while it is still locked in to receiving lower rates on some of its interest-earning assets. people united financial manages this risk using many different techniques. if it is not successful in managing this risk, people united financial may be less profitable. changes in our asset quality could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition asset quality measures the performance of a borrower in repaying a loan, with interest, on time. in recent years, we have benefited from relatively stable asset quality. it is possible that our asset quality could deteriorate, depending upon economic conditions. 13 the success of our stop &amp; shop branches depends on the success of the stop &amp; shop brand one element of our strategy is to focus on increasing deposits by providing a wide range of convenient services to our customers. an integral component of this strategy is people united bank supermarket banking initiative, pursuant to which, as of december 31, 2010, people united bank has established 84 full-service stop &amp; shop branches that provide customers with the convenience of seven-day-a-week banking. at december 31, 2010, 25% of people united bank branches were located in stop &amp; shop supermarkets. people united bank currently has exclusive branching rights in stop &amp; shop supermarkets in the state of connecticut, in the form of a license agreement between the stop &amp; shop supermarket company and people united bank, which provides for the leasing of space to people united bank within stop &amp; shop supermarkets for branch use. people united bank has the exclusive right to branch in these supermarkets until 2012, provided that people united bank does not default on its obligations under the licensing agreement. people united bank has the option to extend the license agreement until 2022. stop &amp; shop is currently the leading grocery store in connecticut. the success of people united bank supermarket branches is dependent, in part, on the success of the stop &amp; shop supermarkets in which they are located. a drop in stop &amp; shop market share, a decrease in the number of stop &amp; shop locations or customers, or a decline in the overall quality of stop &amp; shop supermarkets could result in decreased business for the stop &amp; shop branches, in the form of fewer loan originations, lower deposit generation and fewer overall branch transactions, and could influence market perception of people united bank stop &amp; shop supermarket branches as convenient banking locations. under the terms of the license agreement, people united bank has the obligation to open branches in new connecticut stop &amp; shop locations through 2012, even if stop &amp; shop market share declines or the value of the stop &amp; shop brand is diminished. we depend on our executive officers and key personnel to continue the implementation of our long-term business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services we believe that our continued growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management team. the competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry can be intense, and the loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. our business is affected by the international, national, regional and local economy generally, and the geographic concentration of our loan portfolio and lending activities makes us vulnerable to a downturn in the local economy changes in international, national, regional and local economic conditions affect our business. if economic conditions change significantly or quickly, our business operations could suffer, and we could become weaker financially as a result. in recent years, there has been a decline in the housing and real estate markets and in the general economy, both nationally and locally. housing market conditions in the new england region of the united states, where much of our lending activity occurs, have deteriorated as evidenced by reduced levels of sales, increasing inventories of houses on the market, declining house prices and an increase in the length of time houses remain on the market. no assurance can be given that these conditions will improve or will not worsen or that such conditions will not result in a decrease in our interest income, an increase in our non-performing loans, an increase in our provision for loan losses or an adverse impact on our loan losses. the past several years have been marked by significant volatility in the financial and capital markets initially brought about by the fallout associated with the subprime mortgage market. this disruption led to significant credit and liquidity concerns, which resulted in government intervention within the banking sector and a substantial decline in activity within the secondary mortgage market. all of these issues have been further exacerbated by an accelerated softening of the real estate market, a worsening recessionary economic environment and, in turn, weakness within the commercial sector. 14 our loan portfolio is geographically diverse and, therefore, is not immune to potential negative consequences arising as a result of general economic weakness and, in particular, a prolonged downturn in the housing market on a national scale. decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for loans. in addition, adverse changes in the economy could have a negative effect on the ability of borrowers to make scheduled loan payments, which would likely have an adverse impact on earnings. further, an increase in loan delinquencies may serve to decrease net interest income and adversely impact loan loss experience, resulting in an increased provision and allowance for loan losses. in response to competitive pressures, our costs could increase if we were required to increase our service and convenience levels or our margins could decrease if we were required to increase deposit rates or lower interest rates on loans people united financial faces significant competition for deposits and loans. in deciding where to deposit their money, many people look first at the interest rate they will earn. they also might think about whether the bank offers other kinds of services they might need and, if they have ever been a customer of the bank before, what their experience was like. people also like convenience, so the number of offices and banking hours may be important. some people also think that on-line services are important. people united financial competes with other banks, credit unions, brokerage firms and money market funds for deposits. some people may decide to buy bonds or similar kinds of investments issued by companies or by the u.s., state and local governments and agencies, instead of opening a deposit account. in making decisions about loans, many people look first at the interest rate they will have to pay. they also think about any extra fees they might have to pay in order to get the loan. some people also think about whether the bank offers other kinds of services they might need and, if they have ever been a customer of the bank before, what their experience was like. many business loans are more complicated because there may not be a standard kind of loan that meets all of the customer needs. business borrowers look at many different factors that are not all financial in nature. examples include the kind and amount of security the lender wants and other terms of the loan that do not involve the interest rate. people united financial competes with other banks, credit unions, credit card issuers, finance companies, mortgage lenders and mortgage brokers for loans. insurance companies also compete with people united financial for some kinds of commercial loans. many of people united financial competitors have branches in the same market area as it does. some of them are much larger than it is. the new england region, including connecticut, which is people united financial predominant market, and specifically fairfield county, where people united financial is headquartered, is an attractive banking market. many locally-based banks have been acquired by large regional and national companies in the last several years. we expect this trend to continue. this means that there are not as many competitors in our market as there used to be, but the ones that are left are usually bigger and have more resources than the ones they acquired. people united financial also has competition from outside its own market area. a bank that does not have any branches in our primary markets can still have customers there by providing banking services on-line. it costs money to set up and maintain a branch system. banks that do not spend as much money as people united financial does on branches might be more profitable than it is, even if they pay higher interest on deposits and charge lower interest on loans. 15 changes in federal and state regulation could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition the banking business is heavily regulated by the federal and state governments. banking laws and rules are for the most part intended to protect depositors, not stockholders. banking laws and rules can change at any time. the government agencies responsible for supervising people united financial businesses can also change the way they interpret these laws and rules, even if the rules themselves do not change. we need to make sure that our business activities comply with any changes in these rules or the interpretation of the rules. we might be less profitable if we have to change the way we conduct business in order to comply. our business might suffer in other ways as well. changes in state and federal tax laws can make our business less profitable. changes in the accounting standards we are required to follow may also make us less profitable. changes in the government economic and monetary policies may hurt our ability to compete for deposits and loans. changes in these policies can also make it more expensive for us to do business. the government agencies responsible for supervising our business can take drastic action if they think we are not conducting business safely or are too weak financially. they can force people united financial to hold additional capital, pay higher deposit insurance premiums, stop paying dividends, stop making certain kinds of loans or stop offering certain kinds of deposits. if the agencies took any of these steps or other similar steps, it would probably make our business less profitable. the letter from the ots dated july 3, 2006 approving, among other things, people united bank conversion from a connecticut savings bank to a federal savings bank, granted people united bank (i) a phase-in period of three years from the date of its conversion to a federal savings bank, august 18, 2006, to comply with the home owners loan act commercial loan limits, with the ability to seek an additional one-year extension if necessary (subsequently extended to january 1, 2011); and (ii) an exception from the qualified thrift lender test for a period of four years from the date of its conversion to a federal charter. people united bank is now subject to the qualified thrift lender test and commercial loan limits imposed under the home owners loan act. on july 21, 2010, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the dodd-frank act ) was signed into law. the dodd-frank act implements significant changes in the financial regulatory landscape, many of which will affect us. among these changes are: creation of a new bureau of consumer financial protection that is empowered to promulgate new consumer protection regulations and revise existing regulations in many areas of consumer protection, and that will have exclusive power over our consumer compliance examinations; restrictions on the ability of federal bank regulatory authorities to preempt the application of state consumer protection laws and regulations; limitations on the amount of interchange fees that an issuer of debit cards may charge or receive; stricter capital requirements for bank holding companies; and elimination of the ots as a separate federal regulatory agency. many of the provisions of the dodd-frank act require subsequent regulatory rulemaking, and we can not predict how any new regulations will affect people united financial. 16 people united bank is currently regulated by the ots as a federally-chartered savings bank, and people united financial is currently regulated by the ots as a savings and loan holding company. in july 2011, the office of the comptroller of the currency is expected to assume responsibility for the supervision and regulation of all federally-chartered savings banks, and the board of governors of the federal reserve system is expected to assume responsibility for the supervision and regulation of all savings and loan holding companies. we can not predict how this transfer of supervisory and regulatory authority may affect us. if people united financial allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings would decrease people united financial is exposed to the risk that customers will not be able to repay their loans. this risk is inherent in the lending business. there is also the risk that the customer collateral will not be sufficient to cover the balance of their loan, as underlying collateral values fluctuate with market changes. people united financial records an allowance for loan losses to cover probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio. the allowance for loan losses is established through provisions for loan losses charged to income. losses on loans, including impaired loans, are charged to the allowance for loan losses when all or a portion of a loan is deemed to be uncollectible. recoveries of loans previously charged off are credited to the allowance for loan losses when realized. people united financial maintains the allowance for loan losses at a level that is deemed adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio, based on a quarterly evaluation of a variety of factors. these factors include, but are not limited to: its historical loan loss experience and recent trends in that experience; risk ratings assigned by lending personnel to commercial real estate, commercial and equipment finance loans, and the results of ongoing reviews of those ratings by its independent loan review function; an evaluation of delinquent and non-performing loans and related collateral values; the probability of loss in view of geographic and industry concentrations and other portfolio risk characteristics; the present financial condition of borrowers; and current economic conditions. while people united financial seeks to use the best available information to make these evaluations, and at december 31, 2010, management believed that the allowance for loan losses was adequate to cover probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio, it is possible that borrower defaults could exceed the current estimates for loan losses, which would reduce earnings. in addition, future increases to the allowance for loan losses may be necessary based on changes in economic conditions, results of regulatory examinations, further information obtained regarding known problem loans, increasing charge-offs of existing problem loans, or the identification of additional problem loans and other factors, which would also reduce earnings. our goodwill may be determined to be impaired at a future date depending on the results of periodic impairment tests people united financial tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if necessary. according to applicable accounting requirements, acceptable valuation methods include present-value measurements based on multiples of earnings or revenues, or similar performance measures. if the quoted market price for people united financial common stock were to decline significantly, or if it was determined that the carrying amount of our goodwill exceeded its implied fair value, we would be required to write down the asset recorded for goodwill as reflected in the consolidated statements of condition. this, in turn, would result in a charge to earnings and, thus, a reduction in stockholders equity. see critical accounting policies and notes 1, 2 and 6 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information concerning people united financial goodwill and the required impairment test. 17 people united financial may fail to successfully integrate acquired companies and realize all of the anticipated benefits of an acquisition the ultimate success of an acquisition will depend, in part, on the ability of people united financial to realize the anticipated benefits from combining the businesses of people united financial with those of an acquired company. however, to realize these anticipated benefits, people united financial must successfully combine its business with an acquired company. if people united financial is not able to achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of a merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 79 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk management market risk is the risk of loss to earnings, capital and the fair values of certain assets and liabilities resulting from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. interest rate risk for people united financial, the only relevant market risk at this time is interest rate risk ( irr ), which is the potential exposure to earnings or capital that may result from changes in interest rates. people united financial manages its irr to achieve a balance between risk, earnings volatility and capital preservation. alco has primary responsibility for managing people united financial irr. to evaluate people united financial irr profile, alco monitors economic conditions, interest rate trends, liquidity levels and capital ratios. management also reviews assumptions periodically for projected customer and competitor behavior, in addition to the expected repricing characteristics and cash flow projections for assets, liabilities and off-balance-sheet financial instruments. actual conditions may vary significantly from people united financial assumptions. management evaluates the impact of irr on income at risk using an earnings simulation model to project earnings under multiple interest rate environments over a one-year time horizon resulting in a quantification of irr. income at risk includes significant interest rate sensitive income sources, such as net interest income, gains on sales of residential mortgage loans and boli income. the earnings projections are based on a static balance sheet and estimates of pricing levels for people united financial products under multiple scenarios intended to reflect instantaneous yield curve shocks. people united financial estimates its base case income at risk using current interest rates. internal policy regarding irr simulations currently specifies that for instantaneous parallel shifts of the yield curve, estimated income at risk for the subsequent one-year period should not decline by more than: 7% for a 100 basis point shift; 10% for a 200 basis point shift; and 15% for a 300 basis point shift. 79 the following table shows the estimated percentage change in people united financial income at risk over a one-year simulation period beginning december 31, 2010. given the interest rate environment at december 31, 2010, simulations for declines in interest rates below 25 basis points were not deemed to be meaningful. rate change (basis points) percent change in income at risk +300 16.1 % +200 10.5 +100 4.5 -25 (0.8 ) while income at risk simulation identifies earnings exposure over a relatively short time horizon, net present value of equity at risk takes a long-term economic perspective when quantifying irr, thereby identifying possible margin behavior over a longer time horizon. base case net present value ( npv ) is calculated by estimating the net present value of all future cash flows from existing assets and liabilities using current interest rates. the base case scenario assumes that future interest rates remain unchanged. internal policy currently limits the exposure of a decrease in net present value of equity at risk resulting from instantaneous parallel shifts of the yield curve in the following manner: 5% for 100 basis points shift; 10% for 200 basis points shift; and 15% for 300 basis points. the following table shows the estimated percentage change in people united financial net present value of equity at risk, assuming various shifts in interest rates. given the interest rate environment at december 31, 2010, simulations for declines in interest rates below 25 basis points were not deemed to be meaningful. rate change (basis points) percent change in net present value +300 (3.1 )% +200 (1.0 ) +100 (0.5 ) -25 (0.1 ) people united financial interest rate risk position at december 31, 2010, as set forth in the income at risk and net present value of equity at risk tables above, reflects its significant excess capital position at that date. management current posture is to invest a portion of such excess capital in liquid, short-term investments and securities resale agreements. while this strategy places additional pressure on net interest income in a low rate environment, management views such risk as an acceptable alternative in light of the current credit environment. given the uncertainty of the magnitude, timing and direction of future interest rate movements and the shape of the yield curve, actual results may vary from those predicted by people united financial models. people united financial asset-sensitive balance sheet includes more than just its significant excess capital position. in fact, a 100 basis point increase in the federal funds interest rate translates to an approximate $40 million improvement in net interest income on an annualized basis. people united financial uses derivative financial instruments, including interest rate floors (see below) and interest rate swaps, primarily for market risk management purposes (principally interest rate risk). certain other derivatives are entered into in connection with transactions with commercial customers. derivatives are not used for speculative purposes. 80 at december 31, 2010, people united financial used interest rate swaps on a limited basis to manage irr associated with certain interest-earning assets. interest rate swaps are used to match more closely the repricing of fewer than five commercial real estate loans and the funding associated with these loans. the interest rate swaps effectively convert the fixed rate assets to a variable interest rate and consequently reduce people united financial exposure to increases in interest rates. interest rate swaps are accounted for as fair value hedges. in the first quarter of 2009, people united financial terminated its remaining $600 million (notional amount) interest rate floor contracts. the decision to do so was based on management belief that, in light of the current interest rate environment, the derivative contracts had achieved their stated market risk management objective. termination of the derivative contracts also served to reduce the company counterparty credit risk. at the time of termination, the interest rate floors had an unrealized gain of $40.1 million. the gain is included (on a net-of-tax basis) as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss and is being recognized in income over the period during which the hedged items (certain floating rate commercial loans) affect earnings (approximately 2 years). a total of $19.6 million of this gain was recognized in income during the year ended december 31, 2010 and the remaining unrecognized gain at december 31, 2010 was $0.6 million, which is expected to be recognized in income in the first quarter of 2011. in connection with the september 2008 bankruptcy filing by lehman brothers holdings, inc., people united financial terminated its $100 million (notional) derivative contract (interest rate floor) with lehman brothers. the derivative contract had a fair value of $5.3 million at the time of termination. after considering the master netting arrangement and posted collateral, the net amount due from the counterparty was $1.4 million. after impairment adjustments, the carrying amount of this receivable was $0.4 million at december 31, 2010. people united financial has written guidelines that have been approved by its board of directors and alco governing the use of derivative financial instruments, including approved counterparties and credit limits. credit risk associated with these instruments is controlled and monitored through policies and procedures governing collateral management and credit approval. by using derivatives, people united financial is exposed to credit risk to the extent that counterparties to the derivative contracts do not perform as required. should a counterparty fail to perform under the terms of a derivative contract, the company counterparty credit risk is equal to the amount reported as a derivative asset in the consolidated statements of condition. amounts reported as derivative assets represent derivative contracts in a gain position, net of derivatives in a loss position with the same counterparty (to the extent subject to master netting arrangements) and posted collateral. people united financial seeks to minimize counterparty credit risk through credit approvals, limits, monitoring procedures, execution of master netting arrangements and obtaining collateral, where appropriate. counterparties to people united financial derivatives include major financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings from the major rating agencies. as such, management believes the risk of incurring credit losses on derivative contracts with those counterparties is remote and losses, if any, would be immaterial. certain of people united financial derivative contracts contain provisions establishing collateral requirements (subject to minimum collateral posting thresholds) based on the company external credit rating. if the company senior unsecured debt rating were to fall below the level generally recognized as investment grade, the counterparties to such derivative contracts could require additional collateral on those derivative transactions in a net liability position (after considering the effect of bilateral netting arrangements and posted collateral). the aggregate fair value of derivative instruments with such credit-related contingent features that were in a net liability position at december 31, 2010 was $2.7 million, for which people united financial had posted $2.2 million of collateral in the normal course of business. if the company senior unsecured debt rating had fallen below investment grade as of that date, $0.5 million in additional collateral would have been required. 81 foreign currency risk foreign exchange contracts are commitments to buy or sell foreign currency on a future date at a contractual price. people united financial uses these instruments on a limited basis to eliminate its exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates on certain of its commercial loans that are denominated in foreign currencies. gains and losses on foreign exchange contracts substantially offset the translation gains and losses on the related loans. effective in the first quarter of 2010, people united financial no longer designates foreign exchange contracts as hedging instruments. derivative financial instruments the following table summarizes certain information concerning derivative financial instruments utilized by people united financial in its management of irr and foreign currency risk. also see note 21 to the consolidated financial statements. as of december 31, 2010 (dollars in millions) interest rate swaps foreign exchange contracts notional principal amounts $ 5.7 $ 8.3 weighted average interest rates: pay fixed (receive floating) 5.61%(0.26%) n/a weighted average remaining term to maturity (in months) 26 1 fair value recognized as a liability $ 0.4 $ 0.1 people united financial has entered into interest rate swaps with certain of its commercial customers. in order to minimize its risk, these customer derivatives have been offset with essentially matching interest rate swaps with people united financial counterparties. changes in the fair value of all such interest rate swaps are recognized in current earnings. the following table summarizes certain information concerning these interest rate swaps: interest rate swaps as of december 31, 2010 (dollars in millions) commercial customers other counterparties notional principal amounts $ 491.5 $ 491.5 weighted average interest rates: pay floating (receive fixed) 0.21%(3.32%) pay fixed (receive floating) 3.23%/(0.21%) weighted average remaining term to maturity (in months) 101 101 fair value: recognized as an asset $ 13.5 $ 3.5 recognized as a liability 2.8 11.5risk factors 11 risk factors changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition people united financial makes most of its earnings based on the difference between interest it earns compared to interest it pays. this difference is called the interest spread. people united financial earns interest on loans and to a much lesser extent on securities and short-term investments. these are called interest-earning assets. people united financial pays interest on some forms of deposits and on funds it borrows from other sources. these are called interest-bearing liabilities. 11 table of contents people united financial interest spread can change depending on when interest rates earned on interest-earning assets change, compared to when interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities change. some rate changes occur while these assets or liabilities are still on people united financial books. other rate changes occur when these assets or liabilities mature and are replaced by new interest-earning assets or interest-bearing liabilities at different rates. it may be difficult to replace interest-earning assets quickly, since customers may not want to borrow money when interest rates are high, or people united financial may not be able to make loans that meet its lending standards. people united financial interest spread may also change based on the mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. people united financial interest spread may be lower if the timing of interest rate changes is different for its interest-earning assets compared to its interest-bearing liabilities. for example, if interest rates go down, people united financial will earn less on some of its interest-earning assets while it is still obligated to pay higher rates on some of its interest-bearing liabilities. on the other hand, if interest rates go up, people united financial might have to pay more on some of its interest-bearing liabilities while it continues to receive lower rates on some of its interest-earning assets. people united financial manages this risk using many different techniques. if it is not successful in managing this risk, people united financial may be less profitable. changes in our asset quality could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition asset quality measures the performance of a borrower in repaying a loan, with interest, on time. in recent years, we have benefited from relatively stable asset quality. it is possible that our asset quality could deteriorate, depending upon economic conditions. the success of our stop &amp; shop branches depends on the success of the stop &amp; shop brand one element of our strategy is to focus on increasing deposits by providing a wide range of convenient services to our customers. an integral component of this strategy is people united bank supermarket banking initiative, pursuant to which, as of december 31, 2011, people united bank has established 87 full-service stop &amp; shop branches throughout connecticut, most in close proximity to our traditional branches, that provide customers with the convenience of seven-day-a-week banking. at december 31, 2011, 23% of people united bank branches were located in stop &amp; shop supermarkets. people united bank currently has exclusive branching rights in stop &amp; shop supermarkets in the state of connecticut, in the form of a license agreement between the stop &amp; shop supermarket company and people united bank, which provides for the leasing of space to people united bank within stop &amp; shop supermarkets for branch use. people united bank has the exclusive right to branch in these supermarkets until 2022, provided that people united bank does not default on its obligations under the licensing agreement. stop &amp; shop is currently the leading grocery store in connecticut. the success of people united bank supermarket branches is dependent, in part, on the success of the stop &amp; shop supermarkets in which they are located. a drop in stop &amp; shop market share, a decrease in the number of stop &amp; shop locations or customers, or a decline in the overall quality of stop &amp; shop supermarkets could result in decreased business for the stop &amp; shop branches, in the form of fewer loan originations, lower deposit generation and fewer overall branch transactions, and could influence market perception of people united bank stop &amp; shop supermarket branches as convenient banking locations. under the terms of the license agreement, people united bank has the obligation to open branches in new connecticut stop &amp; shop locations through 2022, even if stop &amp; shop market share declines or the value of the stop &amp; shop brand is diminished. we depend on our executive officers and key personnel to continue the implementation of our long-term business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services we believe that our continued growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management team. the competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry can be intense, and the loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. 12 table of contents our business is affected by the international, national, regional and local economies in which we operate changes in international, national, regional and local economic conditions affect our business. if economic conditions change significantly or quickly, our business operations could suffer, and we could become weaker financially as a result. in recent years, there has been a decline in the housing and real estate markets and in the general economy, both nationally and locally. housing market conditions in the new england region, where much of our lending activity occurs, have deteriorated as evidenced by reduced levels of sales, increasing inventories of houses on the market, declining house prices and an increase in the length of time houses remain on the market. no assurance can be given that these conditions will improve or will not worsen or that such conditions will not result in a decrease in our interest income, an increase in our non-performing loans, an increase in our provision for loan losses or an adverse impact on our loan losses. the past several years have been marked by significant volatility in the financial and capital markets initially brought about by the fallout associated with the subprime mortgage market. this disruption led to significant credit and liquidity concerns, which resulted in government intervention within the banking sector and a substantial decline in activity within the secondary mortgage market. all of these issues have been further exacerbated by an accelerated softening of the real estate market, a worsening recessionary economic environment and, in turn, weakness within the commercial sector. our loan portfolio is geographically diverse and, therefore, is not immune to potential negative consequences arising as a result of general economic weakness and, in particular, a prolonged downturn in the housing market on a national scale. decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for loans. in addition, adverse changes in the economy could have a negative effect on the ability of borrowers to make scheduled loan payments, which would likely have an adverse impact on earnings. further, an increase in loan delinquencies may serve to decrease net interest income and adversely impact loan loss experience, resulting in an increased provision and allowance for loan losses. our foreign country exposure, which is defined as the aggregation of exposure maintained with financial institutions, companies or individuals in a given country outside of the united states, is minimal and indirect, with the majority of such exposure comprised of corporate debt securities. although our exposure to europe is limited, the developing eurozone crisis has strained the u.s. financial markets, suppressing stock prices and adding to volatility. our sovereign credit exposure is also minimal and is comprised of an immaterial amount of government bonds issued by a single non-european sovereign. in response to competitive pressures, our costs could increase if we were required to increase our service and convenience levels or our margins could decrease if we were required to increase deposit rates or lower interest rates on loans people united financial faces significant competition for deposits and loans. in deciding where to deposit their money, many people look first at the interest rate they will earn. they also might think about whether the bank offers other kinds of services they might need and, if they have ever been a customer of the bank before, what their experience was like. people also like convenience, so the number of offices and banking hours may be important. some people also think that on-line services are important. people united financial competes with other banks, credit unions, brokerage firms and money market funds for deposits. some people may decide to buy bonds or similar kinds of investments issued by companies or by the u.s., state and local governments and agencies, instead of opening a deposit account. 13 table of contents in making decisions about loans, many people first look at the interest rate they will have to pay. they also think about any extra fees they might have to pay in order to get the loan. many business loans are more complicated because there may not be a standard kind of loan that meets all of the customer needs. business borrowers look at many different factors that are not all financial in nature, including the kind and amount of security the lender wants and other terms of the loan that do not involve the interest rate. people united financial competes with other banks, credit unions, credit card issuers, finance companies, mortgage lenders and mortgage brokers for loans. insurance companies also compete with people united financial for some kinds of commercial loans. many of people united financial competitors have branches in the same market area as it does, some of which are much larger than it is. the new england region, including connecticut, which is people united financial predominant market, and specifically fairfield county, where people united financial is headquartered, is an attractive banking market. many locally-based banks have been acquired by large regional and national companies in the last several years. we expect this trend to continue. this means that there are not as many competitors in our market as there used to be, but the ones that are left are usually bigger and have more resources than the ones they acquired. people united financial also has competition from outside its own market area. a bank that does not have any branches in our primary markets can still have customers there by providing banking services on-line. it costs money to set up and maintain a branch system. banks that do not spend as much money as people united financial does on branches might be more profitable than it is, even if they pay higher interest on deposits and charge lower interest on loans. changes in federal and state regulation could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition the banking business is heavily regulated by the federal and state governments. banking laws and rules are for the most part intended to protect depositors, not stockholders. banking laws and rules can change at any time. the government agencies responsible for supervising people united financial businesses can also change the way they interpret these laws and rules, even if the rules themselves do not change. we need to make sure that our business activities comply with any changes in these rules or the interpretation of the rules. we might be less profitable if we have to change the way we conduct business in order to comply. our business might suffer in other ways as well. changes in state and federal tax laws or the accounting standards we are required to follow can make our business less profitable. changes in the government economic and monetary policies may hurt our ability to compete for deposits and loans. changes in these policies can also make it more expensive for us to do business. the government agencies responsible for supervising our business can take drastic action if they think we are not conducting business safely or are too weak financially. they can force people united financial to hold additional capital, pay higher deposit insurance premiums, stop paying dividends, stop making certain kinds of loans or stop offering certain kinds of deposits. if the agencies took any of these steps or other similar steps, it would probably make our business less profitable. people united bank is subject to the qtl test and commercial loan limits imposed under the hola. 14 table of contents on july 21, 2010, the dfa was signed into law. the dfa implements significant changes in the financial regulatory landscape, many of which will affect us. among these changes are: creation of the cfpb, which is empowered to promulgate new consumer protection regulations and revise existing regulations in many areas of consumer protection, and that will have exclusive power over our consumer compliance examinations; restrictions on the ability of federal bank regulatory authorities to preempt the application of state consumer protection laws and regulations; limitations on the amount of interchange fees that an issuer of debit cards may charge or receive; stricter capital requirements for bank holding companies; and elimination of the ots as a separate federal regulatory agency. certain provisions of the dfa still require subsequent regulatory rulemaking, and we can not predict how any new regulations will affect people united financial. if people united financial allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings would decrease people united financial is exposed to the risk that customers will not be able to repay their loans. this risk is inherent in the lending business. there is also the risk that the customer collateral will not be sufficient to cover the balance of their loan, as underlying collateral values fluctuate with market changes. people united financial records an allowance for loan losses to cover probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio. the allowance for loan losses is established through provisions for loan losses charged to income. losses on loans, including impaired loans, are charged to the allowance for loan losses when all or a portion of a loan is deemed to be uncollectible. recoveries of loans previously charged off are credited to the allowance for loan losses when realized. people united financial maintains the allowance for loan losses at a level that is deemed to be appropriate to absorb probable losses inherent in the respective loan portfolios, based on a quarterly evaluation of a variety of factors. these factors include, but are not limited to: people united financial historical loan loss experience and recent trends in that experience; risk ratings assigned by lending personnel to commercial real estate loans, commercial and industrial loans and equipment financing loans, and the results of ongoing reviews of those ratings by people united financial independent loan review function; an evaluation of delinquent and non-performing loans and related collateral values; the probability of loss in view of geographic and industry concentrations and other portfolio risk characteristics; the present financial condition of borrowers; and current economic conditions. while people united financial seeks to use the best available information to make these evaluations, and at december 31, 2011, management believed that the allowance for loan losses was appropriate to cover probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio, it is possible that borrower defaults could exceed the current estimates for loan losses, which would reduce earnings. in addition, future increases to the allowance for loan losses may be necessary based on changes in economic conditions, results of regulatory examinations, further information obtained regarding known problem loans, increasing charge-offs of existing problem loans, or the identification of additional problem loans and other factors, which would also reduce earnings. 15 table of contents our goodwill may be determined to be impaired at a future date depending on the results of periodic impairment tests people united financial tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if necessary. according to applicable accounting requirements, acceptable valuation methods include present-value measurements based on multiples of earnings or revenues, or similar performance measures. if the quoted market price for people united financial common stock were to decline significantly, or if it was determined that the carrying amount of our goodwill exceeded its implied fair value, we would be required to write down the asset recorded for goodwill as reflected in the consolidated statements of condition. this, in turn, would result in a charge to earnings and, thus, a reduction in stockholders equity. see critical accounting policies and notes 1, 2 and 6 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information concerning people united financial goodwill and the required impairment test. people united financial may fail to successfully integrate acquired companies and realize all of the anticipated benefits of an acquisition the ultimate success of an acquisition will depend, in part, on the ability of people united financial to realize the anticipated benefits from combining the businesses of people united financial with those of an acquired company. if people united financial is not able to successfully combine the businesses, the anticipated benefits of a merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. a failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses we depend upon our ability to process, record and monitor a large number of customer transactions on a continuous basis. as customer, public and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions and breakdowns. information security risks for financial institutions, such as ours, have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists and other external parties. as noted above, our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks. our business operations rely on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software and networks to conduct their operations. in addition, to access our products and services, our customers may use electronic devices that are beyond our control systems. although we have information security procedures and controls in place, our technologies, systems, networks and our customers devices may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our customers confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise disrupt our or our customers or other third parties business operations. third parties with whom we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges, clearing houses, financial intermediaries or vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. 16 table of contents although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, the size and scale of people united financial, our plans to continue to implement our internet banking and mobile banking channel strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers when and how they want to be served, our expanded geographic footprint, the outsourcing of some of our business operations and the continued uncertain global economic environment. as a result, cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a focus for us. as threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities. disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our business and customers, or cyber attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our products and services could result in customer attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 84 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk management market risk is the risk of loss to earnings, capital and the fair values of certain assets and liabilities resulting from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. interest rate risk for people united financial, the only relevant market risk at this time is interest rate risk ( irr ), which is the potential exposure to earnings or capital that may result from changes in interest rates. people united financial manages its irr to achieve a balance between risk, earnings volatility and capital preservation. alco has primary responsibility for managing people united financial irr. to evaluate people united financial irr profile, alco monitors economic conditions, interest rate trends, liquidity levels and capital ratios. management also reviews assumptions periodically for projected customer and competitor behavior, in addition to the expected repricing characteristics and cash flow projections for assets, liabilities and off-balance-sheet financial instruments. actual conditions may vary significantly from people united financial assumptions. management evaluates the impact of irr on income at risk using an earnings simulation model to project earnings under multiple interest rate environments over a one-year time horizon resulting in a quantification of irr. the earnings projections are based on a dynamic balance sheet and estimates of pricing levels for people united financial products under multiple scenarios intended to reflect instantaneous yield curve shocks. people united financial estimates its base case income at risk using current interest rates. internal policy regarding irr simulations currently specifies that for instantaneous parallel shifts of the yield curve, estimated income at risk for the subsequent one-year period should not decline by more than: 7% for a 100 basis point shift; 10% for a 200 basis point shift; and 15% for a 300 basis point shift. the following table shows the estimated percentage change in people united financial income at risk over a one-year simulation period beginning december 31, 2011. given the interest rate environment at that date, simulations for declines in interest rates below 25 basis points were not deemed to be meaningful. rate change (basis points) percent change in income at risk +300 18.4 % +200 12.1 +100 5.5 -25 (1.1 ) 84 table of contents while income at risk simulation identifies earnings exposure over a relatively short time horizon, economic value of equity at risk takes a long-term economic perspective when quantifying irr, thereby identifying possible margin behavior over a longer time horizon. base case economic value of equity at risk is calculated by estimating the net present value of all future cash flows from existing assets and liabilities using current interest rates. the base case scenario assumes that future interest rates remain unchanged. internal policy currently limits the exposure of a decrease in economic value of equity at risk resulting from instantaneous parallel shifts of the yield curve in the following manner: 5% for 100 basis points shift; 10% for 200 basis points shift; and 15% for 300 basis points shift. the following table shows the estimated percentage change in people united financial economic value of equity at risk, assuming various shifts in interest rates. given the interest rate environment at december 31, 2011, simulations for declines in interest rates below 25 basis points were not deemed to be meaningful. rate change (basis points) percent change in economic value of equity at risk +300 % +200 (0.4 ) +100 (0.7 ) -25 0.3 people united financial interest rate risk position at december 31, 2011, as set forth in the income at risk and economic value of equity at risk tables above, reflects an asset sensitive income at risk position and a neutral economic value of equity at risk position at that date. management current posture is to invest a portion of the company excess capital in liquid short-term investments. while this strategy places pressure on net interest income in a low interest rate environment, management views such risk as an acceptable alternative in light of the current low interest rate environment. based on the company current interest rate position, an immediate 100 basis points increase in interest rates translates to an approximate $50 million increase in net interest income on an annualized basis. given the uncertainty of the magnitude, timing and direction of future interest rate movements and the shape of the yield curve, actual results may vary from those predicted by people united financial models. people united financial uses derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps, primarily for market risk management purposes (principally interest rate risk). certain other derivatives are entered into in connection with transactions with commercial customers. derivatives are not used for speculative purposes. at december 31, 2011, people united financial used interest rate swaps on a limited basis to manage irr associated with certain interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. interest rate swaps associated with interest-earning assets are used to match more closely the repricing of fewer than five commercial real estate loans and the funding associated with these loans. the interest rate swaps effectively convert the fixed rate assets to a variable interest rate and consequently reduces people united financial exposure to increases in interest rates. these interest rate swaps are accounted for as fair value hedges. people united financial has entered into an interest rate swap to hedge the libor-based floating interest rate payments on the company $125 million subordinated notes, which begin in february 2012. the subordinated notes pay a fixed interest rate of 5.80% until february 2012, at which time the interest rate converts to the three month libor plus 68.5 basis points. specifically, people united financial has agreed with the swap counterparty to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed-rate (1.99%) and floating-rate interest amounts calculated based on a notional amount of $125 million. the floating rate interest amounts received under the interest rate swap are calculated using the same floating rate paid on the subordinated notes. the interest rate swap effectively converts the variable rate subordinated notes to a fixed interest rate and consequently reduces people united financial exposure to increases in interest rates. this interest rate swap is accounted for as a cash flow hedge. people united financial has written guidelines that have been approved by its board of directors and alco governing the use of derivative financial instruments, including approved counterparties and credit limits. credit risk associated with these instruments is controlled and monitored through policies and procedures governing collateral management and credit approval. 85 table of contents by using derivatives, people united financial is exposed to credit risk to the extent that counterparties to the derivative contracts do not perform as required. should a counterparty fail to perform under the terms of a derivative contract, the company counterparty credit risk is equal to the amount reported as a derivative asset in the consolidated statements of condition, less any posted collateral. amounts reported as derivative assets represent derivative contracts in a gain position, net of derivatives in a loss position with the same counterparty (to the extent subject to master netting arrangements). people united financial seeks to minimize counterparty credit risk through credit approvals, limits, monitoring procedures, execution of master netting arrangements and obtaining collateral, where appropriate. counterparties to people united financial derivatives include major financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings from the major rating agencies. as such, management believes the risk of incurring credit losses on derivative contracts with those counterparties is remote and losses, if any, would be immaterial. certain of people united financial derivative contracts contain provisions establishing collateral requirements (subject to minimum collateral posting thresholds) based on the company external credit rating. if the company senior unsecured debt rating were to fall below the level generally recognized as investment grade, the counterparties to such derivative contracts could require additional collateral on those derivative transactions in a net liability position (after considering the effect of master netting arrangements and posted collateral). the aggregate fair value of derivative instruments with such credit-related contingent features that were in a net liability position at december 31, 2011 was $11.2 million, for which people united financial had posted $10.1 million collateral in the normal course of business. if the company senior unsecured debt rating had fallen below investment grade as of that date, $1.1 million in additional collateral would have been required. in the first quarter of 2009, people united financial terminated its remaining $600 million (notional amount) interest rate floor contracts. the decision to do so was based on management belief that, in light of the current interest rate environment, the derivative contracts had achieved their stated market risk management objective. termination of the derivative contracts also served to reduce the company counterparty credit risk. at the time of termination, the interest rate floors had an unrealized gain of $40.1 million. the gain was included (on a net-of-tax basis) as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss and was recognized in income over the period during which the hedged items (certain floating rate commercial loans) affected earnings (approximately 2 years). foreign currency risk foreign exchange contracts are commitments to buy or sell foreign currency on a future date at a contractual price. people united financial uses these instruments on a limited basis to eliminate its exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates on certain of its commercial loans that are denominated in foreign currencies. gains and losses on foreign exchange contracts substantially offset the translation gains and losses on the related loans. effective in the first quarter of 2010, people united financial no longer designates foreign exchange contracts as hedging instruments. derivative financial instruments the following table summarizes certain information concerning derivative financial instruments utilized by people united financial in its management of irr and foreign currency risk. also see note 21 to the consolidated financial statements. interest rate swaps foreign exchange contracts as of december 31, 2011 (dollars in millions) loans subordinated notes notional principal amounts $ 4.1 $ 125.0 $ 8.1 weighted average interest rates: pay fixed (receive floating) 5.66%(0.27%) 1.99%(libor + 0.685%) n/a weighted average remaining term to maturity (in months) 2 62 2 fair value recognized as an asset $ $ $ 0.3 fair value recognized as a liability 0.4 86 table of contents people united financial has entered into interest rate swaps with certain of its commercial customers. in order to minimize its risk, these customer derivatives (pay floating/receive fixed) have been offset with essentially matching interest rate swaps with people united financial counterparties (pay fixed/receive floating). hedge accounting has not been applied for these derivatives. accordingly, changes in the fair value of all such interest rate swaps are recognized in current earnings. the following table summarizes certain information concerning these interest rate swaps: interest rate swaps as of december 31, 2011 (dollars in millions) commercial customers other counterparties notional principal amounts $ 878.2 $ 878.2 weighted average interest rates: pay floating (receive fixed) 0.25%(2.80%) pay fixed (receive floating) 2.73%(0.28%) weighted average remaining term to maturity (in months) 86 86 fair value: recognized as an asset $ 61.3 $ recognized as a liability 57.1risk factors 13 risk factors changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition people united financial makes most of its earnings based on the difference between interest it earns compared to interest it pays. this difference is called the interest spread. people united financial earns interest on loans and to a much lesser extent on securities and short-term investments. these are called interest-earning assets. people united financial pays interest on some forms of deposits and on funds it borrows from other sources. these are called interest-bearing liabilities. people united financial interest spread can change depending on when interest rates earned on interest-earning assets change, compared to when interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities change. some rate changes occur while these assets or liabilities are still on people united financial books. other rate changes occur when these assets or liabilities mature and are replaced by new interest-earning assets or interest-bearing liabilities at different rates. it may be difficult to replace interest-earning assets quickly, since customers may not want to borrow money when interest rates are high, or people united financial may not be able to make loans that meet its lending standards. people united financial interest spread may also change based on the mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. people united financial interest spread may be lower if the timing of interest rate changes is different for its interest-earning assets compared to its interest-bearing liabilities. for example, if interest rates go down, people united financial will earn less on some of its interest-earning assets while it is still obligated to pay higher rates on some of its interest-bearing liabilities. on the other hand, if interest rates go up, people united financial might have to pay more on some of its interest-bearing liabilities while it continues to receive lower rates on some of its interest-earning assets. people united financial manages this risk using many different techniques. if it is not successful in managing this risk, people united financial may be less profitable. changes in our asset quality could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition asset quality measures the performance of a borrower in repaying a loan, with interest, on time. in recent years, we have benefited from relatively stable asset quality. still, there are elements of our loan portfolio that inherently present greater credit risk, such as interest-only and stated income residential mortgage loans, home equity loans and lines with incomplete first lien data and commercial real estate loans. each of these portfolio risk elements, where potentially material in the context of our overall loan portfolio, are discussed in greater detail within management discussion &amp; analysis asset quality beginning on page 66. while the company believes that it manages asset quality through prudent underwriting practices and collection operations, it is possible that our asset quality could deteriorate, depending upon economic conditions and other factors. the success of our stop &amp; shop branches depends on the success of the stop &amp; shop brand one element of our strategy is to focus on increasing deposits by providing a wide range of convenient services to our customers. an integral component of this strategy is people united bank supermarket banking initiative, pursuant to which, as of december 31, 2012, people united bank has established 86 full-service stop &amp; shop branches throughout connecticut, most in close proximity to our traditional branches, which provide customers with the convenience of seven-day-a-week banking. people united bank also has 54 full-service stop &amp; shop branches located in southeastern new york, most in close proximity to our traditional branches. at december 31, 2012, 33% of people united bank branches were located in stop &amp; shop supermarkets and 12% and 1% of our total deposits at that date were held in connecticut and new york stop &amp; shop supermarkets, respectively. 13 table of contents people united bank currently has exclusive branching rights in stop &amp; shop supermarkets in the state of connecticut and certain counties in the state of new york, in the form of licensing agreements between the stop &amp; shop supermarket company and people united bank, which provides for the leasing of space to people united bank within stop &amp; shop supermarkets for branch use. people united bank has the exclusive right to branch in these supermarkets until 2022, provided that people united bank does not default on its obligations under the licensing agreement. under the terms of the connecticut license agreement, people united bank has the obligation to open branches in new connecticut stop &amp; shop locations, even if stop &amp; shop market share declines or the value of the stop &amp; shop brand is diminished. the new york license agreement has essentially the same provisions. the license agreements do not stipulate the number of branch openings per year but, rather, apply only to those new stop &amp; shop locations that meet or exceed specified thresholds as to size (square footage) and/or customer traffic. based on our experience, we would expect the application of these thresholds to result in the opening of approximately 4-6 new branches per year in stop &amp; shop locations. stop &amp; shop is currently the leading grocery store in connecticut. the success of people united bank supermarket branches is dependent, in part, on the success of the stop &amp; shop supermarkets in which they are located. a drop in stop &amp; shop market share, a decrease in the number of stop &amp; shop locations or customers, or a decline in the overall quality of stop &amp; shop supermarkets could result in decreased business for the stop &amp; shop branches, in the form of fewer loan originations, lower deposit generation and fewer overall branch transactions, and could influence market perception of people united bank stop &amp; shop supermarket branches as convenient banking locations. we depend on our executive officers and key personnel to continue the implementation of our long-term business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services we believe that our continued growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management team. the competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry can be intense, and the loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. our business is affected by the international, national, regional and local economies in which we operate changes in international, national, regional and local economic conditions affect our business. if economic conditions change significantly or quickly, our business operations could suffer, and we could become weaker financially as a result. in recent years, there has been a decline in the housing and real estate markets and in the general economy, both nationally and locally. housing market conditions in the new england region, where much of our lending activity occurs, have deteriorated as evidenced by reduced levels of sales, increasing inventories of houses on the market, declining house prices and an increase in the length of time houses remain on the market. no assurance can be given that these conditions will improve or will not worsen or that such conditions will not result in a decrease in our interest income, an increase in our non-performing loans, an increase in our provision for loan losses or an adverse impact on our loan losses. the past several years have been marked by significant volatility in the financial and capital markets initially brought about by the fallout associated with the subprime mortgage market. this disruption led to significant credit and liquidity concerns, which resulted in government intervention within the banking sector and a substantial decline in activity within the secondary mortgage market. all of these issues have been further exacerbated by an accelerated softening of the real estate market, a worsening recessionary economic environment and, in turn, weakness within the commercial sector. 14 table of contents our loan portfolio is not immune to potential negative consequences arising as a result of general economic weakness and, in particular, a prolonged downturn in the housing market on a national scale. decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for loans. in addition, adverse changes in the economy could have a negative effect on the ability of borrowers to make scheduled loan payments, which would likely have an adverse impact on earnings. further, an increase in loan delinquencies may serve to decrease net interest income and adversely impact loan loss experience, resulting in an increased provision and allowance for loan losses. our foreign country exposure, which is defined as the aggregation of exposure maintained with financial institutions, companies or individuals in a given country outside of the united states, is minimal and indirect, with the majority of such exposure comprised of corporate debt securities. although our exposure to europe is limited, the ongoing eurozone crisis continues to strain the u.s. financial markets, suppressing stock prices and adding to volatility. our sovereign credit exposure is also minimal and is comprised of an immaterial amount of government bonds issued by a single non-european sovereign. the geographic concentration of our loan portfolio could make us vulnerable to a downturn in the economies in which we operate at december 31, 2012, approximately 31%, 18% and 13% of the company loans by outstanding principal amount were to people and businesses located within connecticut, massachusetts and new york, respectively. loans to people and businesses located in the new england states as a group represented approximately 68% of total loans at that date. how well our business performs depends very much on the health of these regional and local economies. we could experience losses in our real estate-related loan portfolios if the prices for housing and other kinds of real estate decreased significantly in new england or southeastern new york. if the economic environment deteriorates, or negative trends emerge with respect to the financial markets, the new england and southeastern new york economies could suffer more than the national economy. this would be especially likely in fairfield county, connecticut (where the company is headquartered) as well as the suburban communities of new york city and boston as a result of the large number of people living in these areas who also work in the financial services industry. in addition, our ability to continue to originate real estate loans may be impaired by adverse changes in the local and regional economic conditions in these real estate markets. decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for our loans. adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. in addition, if poor economic conditions result in decreased demand for real estate loans, our profits may decrease because our alternative investments may earn less income for us than real estate loans. our equipment financing business, which operates nationally, could be negatively affected by adverse changes in the national economy, even if those changes have no significant effect on the local and regional economies in which our other businesses operate. no assurance can be given that such conditions will not occur or that such conditions will not result in a decrease in our interest income, an increase in our non-performing loans, an increase in our provision for loan losses or an adverse impact on our loan losses. 15 table of contents in response to competitive pressures, our costs could increase if we were required to increase our service and convenience levels or our margins could decrease if we were required to increase deposit rates or lower interest rates on loans people united financial faces significant competition for deposits and loans. in deciding where to deposit their money, many people look first at the interest rate they will earn. they also might consider whether a bank offers other kinds of services they might need and, if they have been a customer of a bank before, what their experience was like. people also like convenience, so the number of offices and banking hours may be important. some people also prefer the availability of on-line services. people united financial competes with other banks, credit unions, brokerage firms and money market funds for deposits. some people may decide to buy bonds or similar kinds of investments issued by companies or by federal, state and local governments and agencies, instead of opening a deposit account. in making decisions about loans, many people consider the interest rate they will have to pay. they also consider any extra fees they might have to pay in order to get the loan. many business loans are more complicated because there may not be a standard type of loan that meets all of the customer needs. business borrowers consider many different factors that are not all financial in nature, including the type and amount of security the lender wants and other terms of the loan that do not involve the interest rate. people united financial competes with other banks, credit unions, credit card issuers, finance companies, mortgage lenders and mortgage brokers for loans. insurance companies also compete with people united financial for some types of commercial loans. many of people united financial competitors have branches in the same market area as it does, some of which are much larger than it is. the new england region, including connecticut, which is people united financial predominant market, and specifically fairfield county, where people united financial is headquartered, is an attractive banking market. many locally-based banks have been acquired by large regional and national companies in the last several years. we expect this trend to continue. therefore, there are not as many bank competitors in our market as there used to be, but the ones that are left are usually bigger and have more resources than the ones they acquired. people united financial also has competition from outside its own market area. a bank that does not have any branches in our primary markets can still have customers there by providing banking services on-line. it costs money to set up and maintain a branch system. banks that do not spend as much money as people united financial does on branches might be more profitable than it is, even if they pay higher interest on deposits and charge lower interest on loans. changes in federal and state regulation could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition the banking business is heavily regulated by the federal and state governments. banking laws and rules are for the most part intended to protect depositors, not stockholders. banking laws and rules can change at any time. the government agencies responsible for supervising people united financial businesses can also change the way they interpret these laws and rules, even if the rules themselves do not change. we need to make sure that our business activities comply with any changes in these rules or the interpretation of the rules. we might be less profitable if we have to change the way we conduct business in order to comply. our business might suffer in other ways as well. changes in state and federal tax laws or the accounting standards we are required to follow can make our business less profitable. changes in the government economic and monetary policies may hurt our ability to compete for deposits and loans. changes in these policies can also make it more expensive for us to do business. 16 table of contents the government agencies responsible for supervising our business can take drastic action if they think we are not conducting business safely or are too weak financially. they can force people united financial to hold additional capital, pay higher deposit insurance premiums, stop paying dividends, stop making certain kinds of loans or stop offering certain kinds of deposits. if the agencies took any of these steps or other similar steps, it would probably make our business less profitable. people united bank is subject to the qtl test and commercial loan limits imposed under the hola. on july 21, 2010, the dfa was signed into law. while some of the provisions of the dfa have not yet been implemented, the legislation will result in significant changes in the financial regulatory landscape, many of which will affect us. among the more significant provisions of the dfa, as well as their anticipated impact, if quantifiable, are: changes to the regulatory landscape, including: (i) elimination of the ots as a separate federal regulatory agency; (ii) creation of the cfpb, which is empowered to promulgate new consumer protection regulations and revise existing regulations in many areas of consumer protection, and exercise exclusive authority over our consumer compliance examinations; and (iii) restrictions on the ability of federal bank regulatory authorities to preempt the application of state consumer protection laws and regulations. the dfa transferred all supervisory functions, including ongoing supervision, examination and regulation, for savings and loan holding companies and their non-depository subsidiaries to the frb, effective july 21, 2011, and on the same day, the occ assumed responsibility for the supervision, examination and regulation of all federally-chartered savings banks. in october 2011, people united bank filed an application with the occ to convert to a national bank charter. in connection with this conversion, people united financial intends to submit an application to the federal reserve bank of new york (the frb-ny ) to convert to a bank holding company. in connection with doing so, people united financial expects to make an election for financial holding company status. while it is still too early to fully quantify the anticipated increase in our regulatory compliance burden, we do expect that costs associated with regulatory compliance, including the need to hire additional compliance personnel, will continue to increase as a result of the dfa. limitations on the amount of interchange fees that an issuer of debit cards may charge or receive: the dfa limits the amount of interchange fee that an issuer of debit cards may charge or receive to an amount that is reasonable and proportional to the cost of the transaction. the dfa further provides that a debit card issuer may not restrict the number of payment card networks on which a debit card transaction may be processed to a single network or limit the ability of a merchant to direct the routing of debit card payments for processing. the interchange fee provisions, which became effective in the fourth quarter of 2011, are expected to result in a decline in bank service charges of approximately $20 million on an annualized basis. changes impacting the financial products and services we offer to our customers: all federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the dfa. as of december 31, 2012, people united bank non-interest bearing deposits totaled $5.1 billion, or 23% of total deposits. the company interest expense may increase and net interest margin may decrease if it begins to offer higher rates of interest than are currently offered on demand deposits. stricter capital requirements for bank holding companies: the dfa imposes stringent capital requirements on bank holding companies by, among other things, imposing leverage ratios on holding companies and prohibiting the inclusion of new trust preferred issuances in tier i capital. the dfa also increases regulation of derivatives and hedging transactions, which could limit the ability of people united financial to enter into, or increase the costs associated with, interest rate and other hedging transactions. 17 table of contents mortgage rules promulgated by the cfpb: in january 2013, the cfpb issued a series of final rules to implement provisions in the dfa related to mortgage origination and mortgage servicing. these rules, which are scheduled to go into effect in january 2014 and which may increase the cost of originating and servicing residential mortgage loans, include: a rule to implement the requirement that creditors make a reasonable, good faith determination of a consumer ability to repay any consumer credit transaction secured by a dwelling and establish certain protections from liability under this requirement for qualified mortgages ; and a rule addressing mortgage servicers obligations to: correct errors asserted by mortgage loan borrowers; provide certain information requested by such borrowers; and provide protections to such borrowers in connection with force-placed insurance. additionally, this final rule addresses servicers obligations to: provide information about mortgage loss mitigation options to delinquent borrowers; establish policies and procedures for providing delinquent borrowers with continuity of contact with servicer personnel capable of performing certain functions; and evaluate borrowers applications for available loss mitigation options. certain other provisions of the dfa still require subsequent regulatory rulemaking. as a result, it is not clear at this time how those new regulations will affect people united financial. if people united financial allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings would decrease people united financial is exposed to the risk that customers will not be able to repay their loans. this risk is inherent in the lending business. there is also the risk that the customer collateral will not be sufficient to cover the balance of their loan, as underlying collateral values fluctuate with market changes. people united financial records an allowance for loan losses to cover probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio. the allowance for loan losses is established through provisions for loan losses charged to income. losses on loans, including impaired loans, are charged to the allowance for loan losses when all or a portion of a loan is deemed to be uncollectible. recoveries of loans previously charged off are credited to the allowance for loan losses when realized. people united financial maintains the allowance for loan losses at a level that is deemed to be appropriate to absorb probable losses inherent in the respective loan portfolios, based on a quarterly evaluation of a variety of factors. these factors include, but are not limited to: people united financial historical loan loss experience and recent trends in that experience; risk ratings assigned by lending personnel to commercial real estate loans, commercial and industrial loans and equipment financing loans, and the results of ongoing reviews of those ratings by people united financial independent loan review function; an evaluation of delinquent and non-performing loans and related collateral values; the probability of loss in view of geographic and industry concentrations and other portfolio risk characteristics; the present financial condition of borrowers; and current economic conditions. while people united financial seeks to use the best available information to make these evaluations, and at december 31, 2012, management believed that the allowance for loan losses was appropriate to cover probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio, it is possible that borrower defaults could exceed the current estimates for loan losses, which would reduce earnings. in addition, future increases to the allowance for loan losses may be necessary based on changes in economic conditions, results of regulatory examinations, further information obtained regarding known problem loans, increasing charge-offs of existing problem loans, or the identification of additional problem loans and other factors, which would also reduce earnings. 18 table of contents our goodwill may be determined to be impaired at a future date depending on the results of periodic impairment evaluations people united financial evaluates goodwill for impairment on an annual basis (or more frequently, if necessary). according to applicable accounting requirements, acceptable valuation methods include present-value measurements based on multiples of earnings or revenues, or similar performance measures. if the quoted market price for people united financial common stock were to decline significantly, or if it was determined that the carrying amount of our goodwill exceeded its implied fair value, we would be required to write down the asset recorded for goodwill as reflected in the consolidated statements of condition. this, in turn, would result in a charge to earnings and, thus, a reduction in stockholders equity. see critical accounting policies and notes 1, 2 and 6 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information concerning people united financial goodwill and the required impairment test. people united financial may fail to successfully integrate acquired companies and realize all of the anticipated benefits of an acquisition the ultimate success of an acquisition will depend, in part, on the ability of people united financial to realize the anticipated benefits from combining the businesses of people united financial with those of an acquired company. if people united financial is not able to successfully combine the businesses, the anticipated benefits of a merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. a failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses we depend upon our ability to process, record and monitor a large number of customer transactions on a continuous basis. as customer, public and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions and breakdowns. information security risks for financial institutions, such as ours, have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists and other external parties. as noted above, our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks. our business operations rely on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software and networks to conduct their operations. in addition, to access our products and services, our customers may use electronic devices that are beyond our control systems. although we have information security procedures and controls in place, our technologies, systems, networks and our customers devices may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our customers confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise disrupt our or our customers or other third parties business operations. third parties with whom we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges, clearing houses, financial intermediaries or vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. 19 table of contents although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, the size and scale of people united financial, our plans to continue to implement our internet banking and mobile banking channel strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers when and how they want to be served, our expanded geographic footprint, the outsourcing of some of our business operations and the continued uncertain global economic environment. as a result, cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a focus for us. as threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities. disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our business and customers, or cyber attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our products and services could result in customer attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. availability of first lien data with respect to our home equity loans and lines of credit could delay our response to any deterioration in the borrower credit we do not currently have statistics for our entire portfolio of home equity loans and lines of credit with respect to first liens serviced by third parties that have priority over our junior liens, as we did not historically capture that data on our loan servicing systems. as a result, we may therefore be unaware that the loan secured by the first lien is not performing, which could delay our response to an apparent deterioration in the borrower creditworthiness. as of december 31, 2012, full and complete first lien position data was not readily available for approximately 74% of the home equity portfolio which, in turn, represented approximately 7% of our overall loan portfolio at that date. we are actively working with a third-party vendor to obtain the missing first lien information and have, in certain cases, obtained the data through information reported to credit bureaus when the borrower defaults. this data collection effort, however, can be more difficult in cases where more than one mortgage is reported in a borrower credit report and/or there is not a corresponding property address associated with a reported mortgage, in which case we are often unable to associate a specific first lien with our junior lien. please see the discussion in management discussion and analysis asset quality portfolio risk elements home equity lending beginning on page 68 for more detail, including steps we are taking to otherwise address this issue. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 87 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk management market risk represents the risk of loss to earnings, capital and the economic values of certain assets and liabilities resulting from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. the only significant market risk exposure for people united financial at this time is interest rate risk ( irr ), which is a result of the company core business activities of making loans and accepting deposits. interest rate risk the effective management of interest rate risk is essential to achieving the company financial objectives. this responsibility is carried out by alco. the goal of alco is to generate a stable net interest margin over entire interest rate cycles regardless of changes in either short- or long-term interest rates. generating earnings by taking excessive interest rate risk is prohibited by the interest rate risk limits established by the company board of directors. alco manages irr by using two primary risk measurement techniques: simulation of net interest income and simulation of economic value of equity. these two measurements are complementary and provide both short-term and long-term risk profiles of the company. net interest income at risk simulation is used to measure the sensitivity of net interest income to changes in market rates over a forward twelve-month period. this simulation captures underlying product behaviors, such as asset and liability re-pricing dates, balloon dates, interest rate indices and spreads, rate caps and floors, as well as other behavioral attributes. the simulation of net interest income also requires a number of key assumptions such as: (i) future balance sheet volume and mix assumptions that are management judgments based on estimates and historical experience; (ii) prepayment projections for loans and securities that are projected under each interest rate scenario using internal and external mortgage analytics; (iii) new business loan rates that are based on recent new business origination experience; and (iv) deposit pricing assumptions that are based on historical regression models and management judgment. combined, these assumptions can be inherently uncertain, and as a result, actual results may differ from simulation forecasts due to the timing, magnitude and frequency of interest rate changes, future business conditions, as well as unanticipated changes in management strategies. the company uses two sets of standard scenarios to measure net interest income at risk. parallel shock scenarios assume instantaneous parallel movements in the yield curve compared to a flat yield curve scenario. yield curve twist scenarios assume the shape of the curve flattens or steepens instantaneously centered around the 18-month point of the curve, thereby segmenting the yield curve into a short end and a long end . internal policy regarding irr simulations currently specifies that for instantaneous parallel shifts of the yield curve, estimated net income at risk for the subsequent one-year period should not decline by more than: 7% for a 100 basis point shift; 10% for a 200 basis point shift; and 15% for a 300 basis point shift. current policy does not specify limits for yield curve twist simulations. the following tables set forth the estimated percentage change in the company net interest income at risk over one-year simulation periods beginning december 31, 2012 and 2011. given the interest rate environment at those dates, simulations for interest rate declines of more than 25 basis points were not deemed to be meaningful. as of december 31 parallel shock rate change (basis points) estimated percent change in net interest income 2012 2011 +300 17.9 % 18.4 % +200 11.6 12.1 +100 5.1 5.5 -25 (1.0 ) (1.1 ) 87 table of contents as of december 31 yield curve twist rate change (basis points) estimated percent change in net interest income 2012 2011 long end +100 3.5 % 2.9 % long end +50 1.8 1.5 long end -50 (1.7 ) (1.5 ) long end -100 (3.0 ) (2.8 ) short end +100 1.8 2.6 short end +50 0.6 1.0 short end -25 (0.1 ) (0.3 ) the net interest income at risk simulation results indicate that as of december 31, 2012, the company is asset sensitive over the twelve-month forecast horizon (i.e., the company net interest income will increase if market rates rise). this is primarily due to approximately one-third of its loan portfolio being comprised of prime and one-month libor-based loans that are primarily funded by less rate-sensitive core deposits. asset sensitivity decreased slightly in 2012 from december 31, 2011, primarily due to purchases of investment securities during 2012, partially offset by the issuance of $500 million of senior notes in december 2012 and the company modifying its volume assumption methodology for net interest income simulation. the company is less asset sensitive when the short-end rises as a result of the purchases of investment securities primarily being funded by short-term borrowings. based on the company interest rate position at december 31, 2012, an immediate 100 basis point increase in interest rates translates to an approximate $50 million increase in net interest income on an annualized basis. economic value of equity at risk simulation is conducted in tandem with net interest income simulations, to ascertain a longer term view of the company interest rate risk position by capturing longer-term re-pricing risk and options risk embedded in the balance sheet. it measures the sensitivity of economic value of equity to changes in interest rates. economic value of equity at risk simulation values only the current balance sheet and does not incorporate the growth assumptions used in income simulation. as with the net interest income simulation, this simulation captures product characteristics such as loan resets, re-pricing terms, maturity dates, rate caps and floors. key assumptions include loan prepayment speeds, deposit pricing elasticity and non-maturity deposit attrition rates. these assumptions can have significant impacts on valuation results as the assumptions remain in effect for the entire life of each asset and liability. the company conducts non-maturity deposit behavior studies on a periodic basis to support deposit assumptions used in the valuation process. all key assumptions are subject to a periodic review. base case economic value of equity at risk is calculated by estimating the net present value of all future cash flows from existing assets and liabilities using current interest rates. the base case scenario assumes that future interest rates remain unchanged. internal policy currently limits the exposure to a decrease in economic value of equity at risk resulting from instantaneous parallel shifts of the yield curve in the following manner: 5% for a 100 basis point shift; 10% for a 200 basis point shift; and 15% for a 300 basis point shift. the following table sets forth the estimated percentage change in the company economic value of equity at risk, assuming various shifts in interest rates. given the interest rate environment at both december 31, 2012 and 2011, simulations for interest rate declines of more than 25 basis points were not deemed to be meaningful. as of december 31 parallel shock rate change (basis points) estimated percent change in economic value of equity 2012 2011 +300 (1.4 )% % +200 0.7 0.4 +100 0.9 (0.7 ) -25 (0.3 ) 0.3 88 table of contents during 2012, the company changed its methodology with respect to its economic value of equity at risk simulations by implementing a stochastic valuation technique in its interest rate risk model. as a result, asset sensitivity declined 50 basis points in the 300 basis point shift scenario but did not change significantly for interest rate shifts of 100 and 200 basis points. the decline in asset sensitivity in the 300 basis point shift scenario was due, primarily, to the size of the investment securities portfolio (relative to the rest of the balance sheet), which was not fully mitigated by the issuance of the senior notes, which served to essentially offset the decline attributable to the investment securities portfolio in scenarios involving lower interest rate shifts. people united financial interest rate risk position at december 31, 2012, as set forth in the net interest income at risk and economic value of equity at risk tables above, reflects an asset sensitive net interest income at risk position and a neutral economic value of equity at risk position at that date. asset sensitivity over the next twelve months is primarily attributable to the effect of the substantial prime and libor-based loan balances that are primarily funded by less rate sensitive core deposits. from a longer-term perspective, these core deposits are supporting longer duration loan assets serving to create a neutral risk position. given the uncertainty of the magnitude, timing and direction of future interest rate movements and the shape of the yield curve, actual results may vary from those predicted by the company models. management has established procedures to be followed in the event of a breach in policy limits, or if those limits are approached. as of december 31, 2012, there were no breaches of the company internal policy limits with respect to either interest rate risk measure. management utilizes both interest rate measures in the normal course of measuring and managing interest rate risk and believes that each measure is valuable in understanding the company interest rate risk position. people united financial uses derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps, primarily for market risk management purposes (principally interest rate risk). certain other derivatives are entered into in connection with transactions with commercial customers. derivatives are not used for speculative purposes. at december 31, 2012, people united financial used interest rate swaps on a limited basis to manage irr associated with the company $125 million subordinated notes. people united financial has entered into an interest rate swap to hedge the libor-based floating interest rate payments on these subordinated notes (such payments began in february 2012). the subordinated notes had a fixed interest rate of 5.80% until february 2012, at which time the interest rate converted to the three month libor plus 68.5 basis points. people united financial has agreed with the swap counterparty to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed-rate (1.99%) and floating-rate interest amounts calculated based on a notional amount of $125 million. the floating rate interest amounts received under the interest rate swap are calculated using the same floating rate paid on the subordinated notes. the interest rate swap effectively converts the variable rate subordinated notes to a fixed interest rate and consequently reduces people united financial exposure to increases in interest rates. this interest rate swap is accounted for as a cash flow hedge. people united financial has written guidelines that have been approved by its board of directors and alco governing the use of derivative financial instruments, including approved counterparties and credit limits. credit risk associated with these instruments is controlled and monitored through policies and procedures governing collateral management and credit approval. by using derivatives, people united financial is exposed to credit risk to the extent that counterparties to the derivative contracts do not perform as required. should a counterparty fail to perform under the terms of a derivative contract, the company counterparty credit risk is equal to the amount reported as a derivative asset in the consolidated statements of condition, less any posted collateral. amounts reported as derivative assets represent derivative contracts in a gain position, net of derivatives in a loss position with the same counterparty (to the extent subject to master netting arrangements). people united financial seeks to minimize counterparty credit risk through credit approvals, limits, monitoring procedures, execution of master netting arrangements and obtaining collateral, where appropriate. counterparties to people united financial derivatives include major financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings from the major rating agencies. as such, management believes the risk of incurring credit losses on derivative contracts with those counterparties is remote and losses, if any, would be immaterial. 89 table of contents certain of people united financial derivative contracts contain provisions establishing collateral requirements (subject to minimum collateral posting thresholds) based on the company external credit rating. if the company senior unsecured debt rating were to fall below the level generally recognized as investment grade, the counterparties to such derivative contracts could require additional collateral on those derivative transactions in a net liability position (after considering the effect of master netting arrangements and posted collateral). the aggregate fair value of derivative instruments with such credit-related contingent features that were in a net liability position at december 31, 2012 was $7.3 million, for which people united financial had posted collateral of $6.3 million in the normal course of business. if the company senior unsecured debt rating had fallen below investment grade as of that date, $1.0 million in additional collateral would have been required. foreign currency risk foreign exchange contracts are commitments to buy or sell foreign currency on a future date at a contractual price. people united financial uses these instruments on a limited basis to eliminate its exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates on certain of its commercial loans that are denominated in foreign currencies. gains and losses on foreign exchange contracts substantially offset the translation gains and losses on the related loans. effective in the first quarter of 2010, people united financial no longer designates foreign exchange contracts as hedging instruments. derivative financial instruments the following table summarizes certain information concerning derivative financial instruments utilized by people united financial in its management of irr and foreign currency risk: as of december 31, 2012 (dollars in millions) interest rate swaps foreign exchange contracts notional principal amounts $125.0 $ 6.3 weighted average interest rates: pay fixed 1.99 % n/a (receive floating) (libor + 0.685%) n/a weighted average remaining term to maturity (in months) 50 2 fair value: recognized as a liability $3.4 $ 0.1 people united financial has entered into interest rate swaps with certain of its commercial customers. in order to minimize its risk, these customer derivatives (pay floating/receive fixed) have been offset with essentially matching interest rate swaps with people united financial counterparties (pay fixed/receive floating). hedge accounting has not been applied for these derivatives. accordingly, changes in the fair value of all such interest rate swaps are recognized in current earnings. 90 table of contents the following table summarizes certain information concerning these interest rate swaps: interest rate swaps as of december 31, 2012 (dollars in millions) commercial customers other counterparties notional principal amounts $1,274.6 $1,274.6 weighted average interest rates: pay floating (receive fixed) 0.24% (2.19%) pay fixed (receive floating) 2.09% (0.24%) weighted average remaining term to maturity (in months) 83 83 fair value: recognized as an asset $ 73.8 $ 1.2 recognized as a liability 0.6 66.2 see note 21 to the consolidated financial statements for further information relating to derivatives.risk factors 12 risk factors changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition people united financial makes most of its earnings based on the difference between interest it earns compared to interest it pays. this difference is called the interest spread. people united financial earns interest on loans and to a much lesser extent on securities and short-term investments. these are called interest-earning assets. people united financial pays interest on some forms of deposits and on funds it borrows from other sources. these are called interest-bearing liabilities. people united financial interest spread can change depending on when interest rates earned on interest-earning assets change, compared to when interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities change. some rate changes occur while these assets or liabilities are still on people united financial books. other rate changes occur when these assets or liabilities mature and are replaced by new interest-earning assets or interest-bearing liabilities at different rates. it may be difficult to replace interest-earning assets quickly, since customers may not want to borrow money when interest rates are high, or people united financial may not be able to make loans that meet its lending standards. people united financial interest spread may also change based on the mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. people united financial interest spread may be lower if the timing of interest rate changes is different for its interest-earning assets compared to its interest-bearing liabilities. for example, if interest rates go down, people united financial could earn less on some of its interest-earning assets while it is still obligated to pay higher rates on some of its interest-bearing liabilities. on the other hand, if interest rates go up, people united financial might have to pay more on some of its interest-bearing liabilities while it continues to receive lower rates on some of its interest-earning assets. people united financial manages this risk using many different techniques. if it is not successful in managing this risk, people united financial may be less profitable. changes in our asset quality could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition asset quality measures the performance of a borrower in repaying a loan, with interest, on time. in recent years, we have benefited from relatively stable asset quality. still, there are elements of our loan portfolio that inherently present greater credit risk, such as interest-only and stated income residential mortgage loans, home equity loans and lines with incomplete first lien data and commercial real estate loans. each of these portfolio risk elements, where potentially material in the context of our overall loan portfolio, are discussed in greater detail within management discussion &amp; analysis asset quality beginning on page 58. while the company believes that it manages asset quality through prudent underwriting practices and collection operations, it is possible that our asset quality could deteriorate, depending upon economic conditions and other factors. the success of our stop &amp; shop branches depends on the success of the stop &amp; shop brand one element of our strategy is to focus on increasing deposits by providing a wide range of convenient services to our customers. an integral component of this strategy is people united bank supermarket banking initiative, pursuant to which, as of december 31, 2013, people united bank has established 143 full-service stop &amp; shop branches throughout connecticut and southeastern new york, most in close proximity to our traditional branches, which provide customers with the convenience of seven-day-a-week banking. at december 31, 2013, 35% of people united bank branches were located in stop &amp; shop supermarkets and 15% of our total deposits at that date were held in stop &amp; shop branches. 12 table of contents people united bank currently has exclusive branching rights in stop &amp; shop supermarkets in the state of connecticut and certain counties in the state of new york, in the form of licensing agreements between the stop &amp; shop supermarket company and people united bank, which provides for the leasing of space to people united bank within stop &amp; shop supermarkets for branch use. people united bank has the exclusive right to branch in these supermarkets until 2027, provided that people united bank does not default on its obligations under the licensing agreement. under the terms of the license agreements, people united bank has the obligation to open branches in new stop &amp; shop locations, even if stop &amp; shop market share declines or the value of the stop &amp; shop brand is diminished. the license agreements do not stipulate the number of branch openings per year but, rather, apply only to those new stop &amp; shop locations that meet or exceed specified thresholds as to size (square footage) and/or customer traffic. based on our experience, we would expect the application of these thresholds to result in the opening of approximately 4-6 new branches per year in stop &amp; shop locations. stop &amp; shop is currently the leading grocery store in connecticut. the success of people united bank supermarket branches is dependent, in part, on the success of the stop &amp; shop supermarkets in which they are located. a drop in stop &amp; shop market share, a decrease in the number of stop &amp; shop locations or customers, or a decline in the overall quality of stop &amp; shop supermarkets could result in decreased business for the stop &amp; shop branches, in the form of fewer loan originations, lower deposit generation and fewer overall branch transactions, and could influence market perception of people united bank stop &amp; shop supermarket branches as convenient banking locations. we depend on our executive officers and key personnel to continue the implementation of our long-term business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services we believe that our continued growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management team. the competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry can be intense, and the loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. our business is affected by the international, national, regional and local economies in which we operate changes in international, national, regional and local economic conditions affect our business. if economic conditions change significantly or quickly, our business operations could suffer, and we could become weaker financially as a result. since 2008, the housing and real estate markets, as well as the broader economy, have experienced declines, both nationally and locally. housing market conditions in the new england region, where much of our lending activity occurs, have deteriorated as evidenced by reduced levels of sales, increasing inventories of houses on the market, declining house prices and an increase in the length of time houses remain on the market. no assurance can be given that these conditions will improve or will not worsen or that such conditions will not result in a decrease in our interest income, an increase in our non-performing loans, an increase in our provision for loan losses or an adverse impact on our loan losses. the past several years have been marked by significant volatility in the financial and capital markets initially brought about by the fallout associated with the subprime mortgage market. this disruption led to significant credit and liquidity concerns, which resulted in government intervention within the banking sector and a substantial decline in activity within the secondary mortgage market. all of these issues have been further exacerbated by an accelerated softening of the real estate market, a worsening recessionary economic environment and, in turn, weakness within the commercial sector. 13 table of contents our loan portfolio is not immune to potential negative consequences arising as a result of general economic weakness and, in particular, a prolonged downturn in the housing market on a national scale. decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for loans. in addition, adverse changes in the economy could have a negative effect on the ability of borrowers to make scheduled loan payments, which would likely have an adverse impact on earnings. further, an increase in loan delinquencies may serve to decrease net interest income and adversely impact loan loss experience, resulting in an increased provision and allowance for loan losses. international economic uncertainty continues to have an impact on the u.s. financial markets, potentially suppressing stock prices and adding to volatility. our foreign country exposure, which is defined as the aggregation of exposure maintained with financial institutions, companies or individuals in a given country outside of the united states, is minimal and indirect, with the majority of such exposure comprised of corporate debt securities. our sovereign credit exposure is comprised of an immaterial amount of government bonds issued by a single non-european sovereign. the geographic concentration of our loan portfolio could make us vulnerable to a downturn in the economies in which we operate at december 31, 2013, approximately 28%, 18% and 18% of the company loans by outstanding principal amount were to people and businesses located within connecticut, massachusetts and new york, respectively. loans to people and businesses located in the new england states as a group represented approximately 63% of total loans at that date. how well our business performs depends very much on the health of these regional and local economies. we could experience losses in our real estate-related loan portfolios if the prices for housing and other kinds of real estate decreased significantly in new england or southeastern new york. if the economic environment deteriorates, or negative trends emerge with respect to the financial markets, the new england and southeastern new york economies could suffer more than the national economy. this would be especially likely in fairfield county, connecticut (where the company is headquartered) as well as the suburban communities of new york city and boston as a result of the significant number of people living in these areas who also work in the financial services industry. in addition, our ability to continue to originate real estate loans may be impaired by adverse changes in the local and regional economic conditions in these real estate markets. decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for our loans. adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. in addition, if poor economic conditions result in decreased demand for real estate loans, our profits may decrease because our alternative investments may earn less income for us than real estate loans. our equipment financing business, which operates nationally, could be negatively affected by adverse changes in the national economy, even if those changes have no significant effect on the local and regional economies in which our other businesses operate. no assurance can be given that such conditions will not occur or that such conditions will not result in a decrease in our interest income, an increase in our non-performing loans, an increase in our provision for loan losses or an adverse impact on our loan losses. 14 table of contents in response to competitive pressures, our costs could increase if we were required to increase our service and convenience levels or our margins could decrease if we were required to increase deposit rates or lower interest rates on loans people united financial faces significant competition for deposits and loans. in deciding where to deposit their money, many people look first at the interest rate they will earn. they also might consider whether a bank offers other kinds of services they might need and, if they have been a customer of a bank before, what their experience was like. people also like convenience, so the number of offices and banking hours may be important. some people also prefer the availability of on-line services. people united financial competes with other banks, credit unions, brokerage firms and money market funds for deposits. some people may decide to buy bonds or similar kinds of investments issued by companies or by federal, state and local governments and agencies, instead of opening a deposit account. in making decisions about loans, many people consider the interest rate they will have to pay. they also consider any extra fees they might have to pay in order to get the loan. many business loans are more complicated because there may not be a standard type of loan that meets all of the customer needs. business borrowers consider many different factors that are not all financial in nature, including the type and amount of security the lender wants and other terms of the loan that do not involve the interest rate. people united financial competes with other banks, credit unions, credit card issuers, finance companies, mortgage lenders and mortgage brokers for loans. insurance companies also compete with people united financial for some types of commercial loans. many of people united financial competitors have branches in the same market area as it does, some of which are much larger than it is. the new england region, including connecticut, which is people united financial predominant market, and specifically fairfield county, where people united financial is headquartered, is an attractive banking market. many locally-based banks have been acquired by large regional and national companies in the last several years. we expect this trend to continue. therefore, there are not as many bank competitors in our market as there used to be, but the ones that are left are usually bigger and have more resources than the ones they acquired. people united financial also has competition from outside its own market area. a bank that does not have any branches in our primary markets can still have customers there by providing banking services on-line. it costs money to set up and maintain a branch system. banks that do not spend as much money as people united financial does on branches might be more profitable than it is, even if they pay higher interest on deposits and charge lower interest on loans. changes in federal and state regulation could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition the banking business is heavily regulated by the federal and state governments. banking laws and rules are for the most part intended to protect depositors, not stockholders. banking laws and rules can change at any time. the government agencies responsible for supervising people united financial businesses can also change the way they interpret these laws and rules, even if the rules themselves do not change. we need to make sure that our business activities comply with any changes in these rules or the interpretation of the rules. we might be less profitable if we have to change the way we conduct business in order to comply. our business might suffer in other ways as well. changes in state and federal tax laws or the accounting standards we are required to follow can make our business less profitable. changes in the government economic and monetary policies may hurt our ability to compete for deposits and loans. changes in these policies can also make it more expensive for us to do business. 15 table of contents the government agencies responsible for supervising our business can take drastic action if they think we are not conducting business safely or are too weak financially. they can force people united financial to hold additional capital, pay higher deposit insurance premiums, stop paying dividends, stop making certain kinds of loans or stop offering certain kinds of deposits. if the agencies took any of these steps or other similar steps, it would probably make our business less profitable. people united bank is subject to the qtl test and commercial loan limits imposed under the hola. enactment of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 (the dfa ) has resulted in significant changes in the financial regulatory landscape, many of which affect us. among the more significant provisions of the dfa, as well as their actual or anticipated impact, if quantifiable, are: changes to the regulatory landscape, including: (i) change in both people's united financial's and people's united bank's primary regulator; (ii) creation of the cfpb, which is empowered to promulgate new consumer protection regulations and revise existing regulations in many areas of consumer protection, and exercise exclusive authority over our consumer compliance examinations; and (iii) restrictions on the ability of federal bank regulatory authorities to preempt the application of state consumer protection laws and regulations. limitations on the amount of interchange fees that an issuer of debit cards may charge or receive: the dfa limits the amount of interchange fee that an issuer of debit cards may charge or receive to an amount that is reasonable and proportional to the cost of the transaction. the dfa further provides that a debit card issuer may not restrict the number of payment card networks on which a debit card transaction may be processed to a single network or limit the ability of a merchant to direct the routing of debit card payments for processing. the interchange fee provisions, which became effective in the fourth quarter of 2011, have resulted in a decline in bank service charges of approximately $20 million on an annualized basis (see recent market developments). changes impacting the financial products and services we offer to our customers: all federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the dfa. as of december 31, 2013, people united bank non-interest bearing deposits totaled $5.3 billion, or 24% of total deposits. the company interest expense may increase and net interest margin may decrease if it begins to offer higher rates of interest than are currently offered on demand deposits. stricter capital requirements for bank holding companies: the dfa imposes stringent capital requirements on bank holding companies by, among other things, imposing leverage ratios on holding companies and prohibiting the inclusion of new trust preferred issuances in tier i capital. the dfa also increases regulation of derivatives and hedging transactions, which could limit the ability of people united financial to enter into, or increase the costs associated with, interest rate and other hedging transactions. mortgage rules promulgated by the cfpb: the cfpb has issued a series of final rules to implement provisions in the dfa related to mortgage origination and mortgage servicing. these rules, which went into effect in january 2014 and which may increase the cost of originating and servicing residential mortgage loans, include: a rule to implement the requirement that creditors make a reasonable, good faith determination of a consumer ability to repay any consumer credit transaction secured by a dwelling and establish certain protections from liability under this requirement for qualified mortgages ; and 16 table of contents a rule addressing mortgage servicers obligations to: correct errors asserted by mortgage loan borrowers; provide certain information requested by such borrowers; and provide protections to such borrowers in connection with force-placed insurance. additionally, this final rule addresses servicers obligations to: provide information about mortgage loss mitigation options to delinquent borrowers; establish policies and procedures for providing delinquent borrowers with continuity of contact with servicer personnel capable of performing certain functions; and evaluate borrowers applications for available loss mitigation options. while it is difficult to fully quantify the anticipated increase in our regulatory compliance burden, we do expect that costs associated with regulatory compliance, including the need to hire additional compliance personnel, will continue to increase as a result of the dfa. certain other provisions of the dfa still require subsequent regulatory rulemaking. as a result, it is not clear at this time how those new regulations will affect people united financial. if people united financial allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings would decrease people united financial is exposed to the risk that customers will not be able to repay their loans. this risk is inherent in the lending business. there is also the risk that the customer collateral will not be sufficient to cover the balance of their loan, as underlying collateral values fluctuate with market changes. people united financial records an allowance for loan losses to cover probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio. the allowance for loan losses is established through provisions for loan losses charged to income. losses on loans, including impaired loans, are charged to the allowance for loan losses when all or a portion of a loan is deemed to be uncollectible. recoveries of loans previously charged off are credited to the allowance for loan losses when realized. people united financial maintains the allowance for loan losses at a level that is deemed to be appropriate to absorb probable losses inherent in the respective loan portfolios, based on a quarterly evaluation of a variety of factors. these factors include, but are not limited to: people united financial historical loan loss experience and recent trends in that experience; risk ratings assigned by lending personnel to commercial real estate loans, commercial and industrial loans and equipment financing loans, and the results of ongoing reviews of those ratings by people united financial independent loan review function; an evaluation of delinquent and non-performing loans and related collateral values; the probability of loss in view of geographic and industry concentrations and other portfolio risk characteristics; the present financial condition of borrowers; and current economic conditions. while people united financial seeks to use the best available information to make these evaluations, and at december 31, 2013, management believed that the allowance for loan losses was appropriate to cover probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio, it is possible that borrower defaults could exceed the current estimates for loan losses, which would reduce earnings. in addition, future increases to the allowance for loan losses may be necessary based on changes in economic conditions, results of regulatory examinations, further information obtained regarding known problem loans, increasing charge-offs of existing problem loans, or the identification of additional problem loans and other factors, which would also reduce earnings. our goodwill may be determined to be impaired at a future date depending on the results of periodic impairment evaluations people united financial evaluates goodwill for impairment on an annual basis (or more frequently, if necessary). according to applicable accounting requirements, acceptable valuation methods include present-value measurements based on multiples of earnings or revenues, or similar performance measures. if the quoted market price for people united financial common stock were to decline significantly, or if it was determined that the carrying amount of our goodwill exceeded its implied fair value, we would be required to write down the asset recorded for goodwill as reflected in the consolidated statements of condition. this, in turn, would result in a charge to earnings and, thus, a reduction in stockholders equity. see notes 1 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information concerning people united financial goodwill and the required impairment test. 17 table of contents people united financial may fail to successfully integrate acquired companies and realize all of the anticipated benefits of an acquisition the ultimate success of an acquisition will depend, in part, on the ability of people united financial to realize the anticipated benefits from combining the businesses of people united financial with those of an acquired company. if people united financial is not able to successfully combine the businesses, the anticipated benefits of a merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. a failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses we depend upon our ability to process, record and monitor a large number of customer transactions on a continuous basis. as customer, public and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions and breakdowns. information security risks for financial institutions, such as ours, have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists and other external parties. as noted above, our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks. our business operations rely on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software and networks to conduct their operations. in addition, to access our products and services, our customers may use electronic devices that are beyond our control systems. although we have information security procedures and controls in place, our technologies, systems, networks and our customers devices may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our customers confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise disrupt our or our customers or other third parties business operations. third parties with whom we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges, clearing houses, financial intermediaries or vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, the size and scale of people united financial, our plans to continue to implement our internet banking and mobile banking channel strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers when and how they want to be served, our expanded geographic footprint, the outsourcing of some of our business operations and the continued uncertain global economic environment. as a result, cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a focus for us. as threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities. 18 table of contents disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our business and customers, or cyber attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our products and services could result in customer attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. availability of first lien data with respect to our home equity loans and lines of credit could delay our response to any deterioration in the borrower credit we do not currently have statistics for our entire portfolio of home equity loans and lines of credit with respect to first liens serviced by third parties that have priority over our junior liens, as we did not historically capture that data on our loan servicing systems. as a result, we may therefore be unaware that the loan secured by the first lien is not performing, which could delay our response to an apparent deterioration in the borrower creditworthiness. as of december 31, 2013, full and complete first lien position data was not readily available for approximately 59% of the home equity portfolio which, in turn, represented approximately 3% of our overall loan portfolio at that date. we are actively working with a third-party vendor to obtain the missing first lien information and have, in certain cases, obtained the data through information reported to credit bureaus when the borrower defaults. this data collection effort, however, can be more difficult in cases where more than one mortgage is reported in a borrower credit report and/or there is not a corresponding property address associated with a reported mortgage, in which case we are often unable to associate a specific first lien with our junior lien. please see the discussion in management discussion and analysis asset quality portfolio risk elements home equity lending beginning on page 61 for more detail, including steps we are taking to otherwise address this issue. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 80 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk management market risk represents the risk of loss to earnings, capital and the economic values of certain assets and liabilities resulting from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. the only significant market risk exposure for people united financial at this time is irr, which is a result of the company core business activities of making loans and accepting deposits. interest rate risk the effective management of irr is essential to achieving the company financial objectives. responsibility for overseeing management of irr resides with alco. the goal of alco is to generate a stable net interest margin over entire interest rate cycles regardless of changes in either short- or long-term interest rates. generating earnings by taking excessive irr is prohibited by the irr limits established by the company board of directors. alco manages irr by using two primary risk measurement techniques: simulation of net interest income and simulation of economic value of equity. these two measurements are complementary and provide both short-term and long-term risk profiles of the company. net interest income at risk simulation is used to measure the sensitivity of net interest income to changes in market rates over a forward twelve-month period. this simulation captures underlying product behaviors, such as asset and liability re-pricing dates, balloon dates, interest rate indices and spreads, rate caps and floors, as well as other behavioral attributes. the simulation of net interest income also requires a number of key assumptions such as: (i) future balance sheet volume and mix assumptions that are management judgments based on estimates and historical experience; (ii) prepayment projections for loans and securities that are projected under each interest rate scenario using internal and external analytics; (iii) new business loan rates that are based on recent new business origination experience; and (iv) deposit pricing assumptions that are based on historical regression models and management judgment. combined, these assumptions can be inherently uncertain, and as a result, actual results may differ from simulation forecasts due to the timing, magnitude and frequency of interest rate changes, future business conditions, as well as unanticipated changes in management strategies. the company uses two sets of standard scenarios to measure net interest income at risk. parallel shock scenarios assume instantaneous parallel movements in the yield curve compared to a flat yield curve scenario. yield curve twist scenarios assume the shape of the curve flattens or steepens instantaneously centered around the 18-month point of the curve, thereby segmenting the yield curve into a short-end and a long-end . internal policy regarding irr simulations currently specifies that for instantaneous parallel shifts of the yield curve, estimated net income at risk for the subsequent one-year period should not decline by more than: 7% for a 100 basis point shift; 10% for a 200 basis point shift; and 15% for a 300 basis point shift. current policy does not specify limits for yield curve twist simulations. the following tables set forth the estimated percentage change in the company net interest income at risk over one-year simulation periods beginning december 31, 2013 and 2012. given the interest rate environment at those dates, simulations for interest rate declines of more than 25 basis points were not deemed to be meaningful. as of december 31 parallel shock rate change (basis points) estimated percentage change in net interest income 2013 2012 +300 10.7 % 17.9 % +200 7.3 11.6 +100 3.1 5.1 -25 (1.2 ) (1.0 ) 80 table of contents as of december 31 yield curve twist rate change (basis points) estimated percentage change in net interest income 2013 2012 short end -25 (0.4 )% (0.1 )% short end +100 0.7 1.8 short end +200 2.7 4.4 long end -100 (3.7 ) (3.0 ) long end +100 2.3 3.5 long end +200 4.7 7.6 the net interest income at risk simulation results indicate that at both december 31, 2013 and 2012, the company is asset sensitive over the twelve-month forecast horizon (i.e. net interest income will increase if market rates rise). this is primarily due to (i) approximately 92% of the company loan portfolio being funded by less rate-sensitive deposits and (ii) approximately one-third of the company loan portfolio being comprised of prime and one-month libor-based adjustable-rate loans. asset sensitivity decreased from december 31, 2012, reflecting loan growth and security purchases, which were primarily funded by short-term borrowings, and the effects of common stock repurchases during 2013, which lowered zero cost funding. the company is less asset sensitive when the short-end rises primarily as a result of using short-term borrowings to support loan growth and security purchases. based on the company interest rate position at december 31, 2013, an immediate 100 basis point increase in interest rates translates to an approximate $30 million increase in net interest income on an annualized basis. economic value of equity at risk simulation is conducted in tandem with net interest income simulations, to ascertain a longer term view of the company irr position by capturing longer-term re-pricing risk and options risk embedded in the balance sheet. it measures the sensitivity of economic value of equity to changes in interest rates. economic value of equity at risk simulation values only the current balance sheet and does not incorporate the growth assumptions used for income simulations. as with net interest income modeling, this simulation captures product characteristics such as loan resets, re-pricing terms, maturity dates, rate caps and floors. key assumptions include loan prepayment speeds, deposit pricing elasticity and non-maturity deposit attrition rates. these assumptions can have significant impacts on valuation results as the assumptions remain in effect for the entire life of each asset and liability. the company conducts non-maturity deposit behavior studies on a periodic basis to support deposit assumptions used in the valuation process. all key assumptions are subject to a periodic review. base case economic value of equity at risk is calculated by estimating the net present value of all future cash flows from existing assets and liabilities using current interest rates. the base case scenario assumes that future interest rates remain unchanged. internal policy currently limits the exposure to a decrease in economic value of equity at risk resulting from instantaneous parallel shifts of the yield curve in the following manner: 5% for a 100 basis point shift; 10% for a 200 basis point shift; and 15% for a 300 basis point shift. the following table sets forth the estimated percentage change in the company economic value of equity at risk, assuming various shifts in interest rates. given the interest rate environment at both december 31, 2013 and 2012, simulations for interest rate declines of more than 25 basis points were not deemed to be meaningful. as of december 31 parallel shock rate change (basis points) estimated percentage change in economic value of equity 2013 2012 +300 (6.5 )% (1.4 )% +200 (2.6 ) 0.7 +100 (0.5 ) 0.9 -25 0.4 (0.3 ) 81 table of contents the company economic value of equity at risk profile shifted from risk neutral to moderate liability sensitive at december 31, 2013. this was primarily due to the increase in short-term borrowings used to fund longer-term securities and fixed-rate loans and a steeper yield curve in 2013, which extended the duration of residential mortgage-backed securities and residential mortgage loans. the value of these longer duration assets declines more when interest rates rise relative to shorter duration assets. as a result, the company is currently more liability sensitive in a rising interest rate environment than it was at december 31, 2012. people united financial irr position at december 31, 2013, as set forth in the net interest income at risk and economic value of equity at risk tables above, reflects an asset sensitive net interest income at risk position and moderate liability sensitive economic value of equity at risk position at that date. from a net interest income perspective, asset sensitivity over the next 12 months is primarily attributable to the effect of the substantial prime and libor-based loan balances that are primarily funded by less interest rate sensitive deposits. from an economic value of equity perspective, the increased value of these deposits in a rising interest rate environment is less than the decline in value of fixed-rate assets, which serves to create a moderate liability sensitive risk position. given the uncertainty of the magnitude, timing and direction of future interest rate movements and the shape of the yield curve, actual results may vary from those predicted by the company models. management has established procedures to be followed in the event of a breach in policy limits, or if those limits are approached. as of december 31, 2013, there were no breaches of the company internal policy limits with respect to either irr measure. management utilizes both interest rate measures in the normal course of measuring and managing irr and believes that each measure is valuable in understanding the company irr position. people united financial uses derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps, primarily for market risk management purposes (principally irr). certain other derivatives are entered into in connection with transactions with commercial customers. derivatives are not used for speculative purposes. at december 31, 2013, people united financial used interest rate swaps on a limited basis to manage irr associated with the company $125 million subordinated notes. people united financial has entered into an interest rate swap to hedge the libor-based floating interest rate payments on these subordinated notes (such payments began in february 2012). the subordinated notes had a fixed interest rate of 5.80% until february 2012, at which time the interest rate converted to the three month libor plus 68.5 basis points. people united financial has agreed with the swap counterparty to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed-rate (1.99%) and floating-rate interest amounts calculated based on a notional amount of $125 million. the floating rate interest amounts received under the interest rate swap are calculated using the same floating rate paid on the subordinated notes. the interest rate swap effectively converts the variable rate subordinated notes to a fixed interest rate and consequently reduces people united financial exposure to increases in interest rates. this interest rate swap is accounted for as a cash flow hedge. people united financial has written guidelines that have been approved by its board of directors and alco governing the use of derivative financial instruments, including approved counterparties and credit limits. credit risk associated with these instruments is controlled and monitored through policies and procedures governing collateral management and credit approval. 82 table of contents by using derivatives, people united financial is exposed to credit risk to the extent that counterparties to the derivative contracts do not perform as required. should a counterparty fail to perform under the terms of a derivative contract, the company counterparty credit risk is equal to the amount reported as a derivative asset in the consolidated statements of condition. in accordance with the company balance sheet offsetting policy (see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements), amounts reported as derivative assets represent derivative contracts in a gain position, without consideration for derivative contracts in a loss position with the same counterparty (to the extent subject to master netting arrangements) and posted collateral. people united financial seeks to minimize counterparty credit risk through credit approvals, limits, monitoring procedures, execution of master netting arrangements and obtaining collateral, where appropriate. counterparties to people united financial derivatives include major financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings from the major rating agencies. as such, management believes the risk of incurring credit losses on derivative contracts with those counterparties is remote and losses, if any, would be immaterial. certain of people united financial derivative contracts contain provisions establishing collateral requirements (subject to minimum collateral posting thresholds) based on the company external credit rating. if the company senior unsecured debt rating were to fall below the level generally recognized as investment grade, the counterparties to such derivative contracts could require additional collateral on those derivative transactions in a net liability position (after considering the effect of master netting arrangements and posted collateral). the company had no derivative instruments with such credit-related contingent features that were in a net liability position at december 31, 2013. if the company senior unsecured debt rating had fallen below investment grade as of that date, no additional collateral would have been required. foreign currency risk foreign exchange contracts are commitments to buy or sell foreign currency on a future date at a contractual price. people united financial uses these instruments on a limited basis to eliminate its exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates on certain of its commercial loans that are denominated in foreign currencies. gains and losses on foreign exchange contracts substantially offset the translation gains and losses on the related loans. effective in the first quarter of 2010, people united financial no longer designates foreign exchange contracts as hedging instruments. derivative financial instruments the following table summarizes certain information concerning derivative financial instruments utilized by people united financial in its management of irr and foreign currency risk: as of december 31, 2013 (dollars in millions) interest rate swaps foreign exchange contracts notional principal amounts $125.0 $ 10.3 weighted average interest rates: pay fixed 1.99 % n/a (receive floating) (libor + 0.685 %) n/a weighted average remaining term to maturity (in months) 38 1 fair value: recognized as a liability $ 1.5 $ 0.1 people united financial has entered into interest rate swaps with certain of its commercial customers. in order to minimize its risk, these customer derivatives (pay floating/receive fixed) have been offset with essentially matching interest rate swaps with people united financial institutional counterparties (pay fixed/receive floating). hedge accounting has not been applied for these derivatives. accordingly, changes in the fair value of all such interest rate swaps are recognized in current earnings. 83 table of contents the following table summarizes certain information concerning these interest rate swaps: interest rate swaps as of december 31, 2013 (dollars in millions) commercial customers institutional counterparties notional principal amounts $ 2,514.7 $2,514.7 weighted average interest rates: pay floating (receive fixed) 0.27% (2.27%) pay fixed (receive floating) 2.16% (0.27%) weighted average remaining term to maturity (in months) 96 96 fair value: recognized as an asset $ 32.8 $ 59.0 recognized as a liability 47.3 27.9 see notes 20 and 21 to the consolidated financial statements for further information relating to derivatives.risk factors 12 risk factors changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition people united makes most of its earnings based on the difference between interest it earns compared to interest it pays. this difference is called the interest spread. people united earns interest on loans and to a much lesser extent on securities and short-term investments. these are called interest-earning assets. people united pays interest on some forms of deposits and on funds it borrows from other sources. these are called interest-bearing liabilities. people united interest spread can change depending on when interest rates earned on interest-earning assets change, compared to when interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities change. some rate changes occur while these assets or liabilities are still on people united books. other rate changes occur when these assets or liabilities mature and are replaced by new interest-earning assets or interest-bearing liabilities at different rates. it may be difficult to replace interest-earning assets quickly, since customers may not want to borrow money when interest rates are high, or people united may not be able to make loans that meet its lending standards. people united interest spread may also change based on the mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. people united interest spread may be lower if the timing of interest rate changes is different for its interest-earning assets compared to its interest-bearing liabilities. for example, if interest rates go down, people united could earn less on some of its interest-earning assets while it is still obligated to pay higher rates on some of its interest-bearing liabilities. on the other hand, if interest rates go up, people united might have to pay more on some of its interest-bearing liabilities while it continues to receive lower rates on some of its interest-earning assets. people united manages this risk using many different techniques. if unsuccessful in managing this risk, people united may be less profitable. changes in our asset quality could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition asset quality measures the performance of a borrower in repaying a loan, with interest, on time. while we believe we have benefited from relatively stable asset quality, there are elements of our loan portfolio that inherently present greater credit risk, such as interest-only and stated income residential mortgage loans, home equity loans and lines with incomplete first lien data and commercial real estate loans. each of these portfolio risk elements, where potentially material in the context of our overall loan portfolio, are discussed in greater detail within management discussion &amp; analysis asset quality beginning on page 55. while the company believes that it manages asset quality through prudent underwriting practices and collection operations, it is possible that our asset quality could deteriorate, depending upon economic conditions and other factors. the success of our stop &amp; shop branches depends on the success of the stop &amp; shop brand one element of our strategy is to focus on increasing deposits by providing a wide range of convenient services to our customers. an integral component of this strategy is the bank supermarket banking initiative, pursuant to which, as of december 31, 2014, the bank has established 149 full-service stop &amp; shop branches throughout connecticut and southeastern new york, most of which are in close proximity to our traditional branches, which provide customers with the convenience of seven-day-a-week banking. at december 31, 2014, 36% of the bank branches were located in stop &amp; shop supermarkets and 14% of our total deposits at that date were held in stop &amp; shop branches. 12 table of contents the bank currently has exclusive branching rights in stop &amp; shop supermarkets in the state of connecticut and certain counties in the state of new york, in the form of licensing agreements between the stop &amp; shop supermarket company and the bank, which provides for the leasing of space to the bank within stop &amp; shop supermarkets for branch use. the bank has the exclusive right to branch in these supermarkets until 2027, provided that the bank does not default on its obligations under the licensing agreement. under the terms of the license agreements, the bank has the obligation to open branches in new stop &amp; shop locations, even if stop &amp; shop market share declines or the value of the stop &amp; shop brand is diminished. the license agreements do not stipulate the number of branch openings per year but, rather, apply only to those new stop &amp; shop locations that meet or exceed specified thresholds as to size (square footage) and/or customer traffic. based on our experience, we would expect the application of these thresholds to result in the opening of approximately 3-5 new branches per year in stop &amp; shop locations. stop &amp; shop is a leading grocery store in connecticut. the success of the bank supermarket branches is dependent, in part, on the success of the stop &amp; shop supermarkets in which they are located. a drop in stop &amp; shop market share, a decrease in the number of stop &amp; shop locations or customers, or a decline in the overall quality of stop &amp; shop supermarkets could result in decreased business for the stop &amp; shop branches, in the form of fewer loan originations, lower deposit generation and fewer overall branch transactions, and could influence market perception of the bank stop &amp; shop supermarket branches as convenient banking locations. we depend on our executive officers and key personnel to continue implementing our long-term business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services we believe that our continued growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management team. the competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry can be intense, and the loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. our business is affected by the international, national, regional and local economies in which we operate changes in international, national, regional and local economic conditions affect our business. if economic conditions change significantly or quickly, our business operations could suffer, and we could become weaker financially as a result. as a result of the financial crisis that existed for much of the period from 2008 through 2012, the housing and real estate markets, as well as the broader economy, experienced declines, both nationally and locally. housing market conditions in the new england region, where much of our lending activity occurs, were adversely impacted, leading to a reduced level of sales, increasing inventories of houses on the market, declining house prices and an increase in the length of time houses remained on the market. no assurance can be given that these conditions will not be repeated or that such conditions will not result in a decrease in our interest income, an increase in our non-performing loans, an increase in our provision for loan losses or an adverse impact on our loan losses. significant volatility in the financial and capital markets during this time led to credit and liquidity concerns, a recessionary economic environment and, in turn, weakness within the commercial sector. our loan portfolio is not immune to potential negative consequences arising as a result of general economic weakness and, in particular, a prolonged downturn in the housing market on a national scale. decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for loans. in addition, adverse changes in the economy could have a negative effect on the ability of borrowers to make scheduled loan payments, which would likely have an adverse impact on earnings. further, an increase in loan delinquencies may serve to decrease interest income and adversely impact loan loss experience, resulting in an increased provision and allowance for loan losses. 13 table of contents international economic uncertainty continues to have an impact on the u.s. financial markets, potentially suppressing stock prices and adding to volatility. our foreign country exposure, which is defined as the aggregation of exposure maintained with financial institutions, companies or individuals in a given country outside of the united states, is minimal and indirect, with the majority of such exposure comprised of corporate debt securities. our sovereign credit exposure is comprised of an immaterial amount of government bonds issued by a single non-european sovereign. the geographic concentration of our loan portfolio could make us vulnerable to a downturn in the economies in which we operate at december 31, 2014, 27%, 19% and 18% of the company loans by outstanding principal amount were to people and businesses located within connecticut, new york and massachusetts, respectively. loans to people and businesses located in the new england states as a group represented 61% of total loans at that date. how well our business performs depends very much on the health of these regional and local economies. we could experience losses in our real estate-related loan portfolios if the prices for housing and other kinds of real estate decreased significantly in new england or southeastern new york. if the economic environment deteriorates, or negative trends emerge with respect to the financial markets, the new england and southeastern new york economies could suffer more than the national economy. this would be especially likely in fairfield county, connecticut (where the company is headquartered) as well as the suburban communities of new york city and boston as a result of the significant number of people living in these areas who also work in the financial services industry. in addition, our ability to continue to originate real estate loans may be impaired by adverse changes in the local and regional economic conditions in these real estate markets. decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for our loans. adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. in addition, if poor economic conditions result in decreased demand for real estate loans, our profits may decrease because our alternative investments may earn less income for us than real estate loans. our equipment financing business, which operates nationally, could be negatively affected by adverse changes in the national economy, even if those changes have no significant effect on the local and regional economies in which our other businesses operate. no assurance can be given that such conditions will not occur or that such conditions will not result in a decrease in our interest income, an increase in our non-performing loans, an increase in our provision for loan losses or an adverse impact on our loan losses. in response to competitive pressures, our costs could increase if we were required to increase our service and convenience levels or our margins could decrease if we were required to increase deposit rates or lower interest rates on loans people united faces significant competition for deposits and loans. in deciding where to deposit their money, many people look first at the interest rate they will earn. they also might consider whether a bank offers other kinds of services they might need and, if they have been a customer of a bank before, what their experience was like. people also like convenience, so the number of offices and banking hours may be important. some people also prefer the availability of on-line services. 14 table of contents people united competes with other banks, credit unions, brokerage firms and money market funds for deposits. some people may decide to buy bonds or similar kinds of investments issued by companies or by federal, state and local governments and agencies, instead of opening a deposit account. in making decisions about loans, many people consider the interest rate they will have to pay. they also consider any extra fees they might have to pay in order to get the loan. many business loans are more complicated because there may not be a standard type of loan that meets all of the customer needs. business borrowers consider many different factors that are not all financial in nature, including the type and amount of security the lender wants and other terms of the loan that do not involve the interest rate. people united competes with other banks, credit unions, credit card issuers, finance companies, mortgage lenders and mortgage brokers for loans. insurance companies also compete with people united for some types of commercial loans. several of people united competitors have branches in the same market area as it does, some of which are much larger than it is. the new england region, including connecticut, which is people united predominant market, and specifically fairfield county, where people united is headquartered, is an attractive banking market. as locally-based banks continue to be acquired by large regional and national companies, there are not as many bank competitors in our market as there used to be, but the remaining ones are usually larger and have more resources than the ones they acquired. people united also has competition from outside its own market area. a bank that does not have any branches in our primary markets can still have customers there by providing banking services on-line. it costs money to set up and maintain a branch system. banks that do not spend as much money as people united does on branches might be more profitable than it is, even if they pay higher interest on deposits and charge lower interest on loans. changes in federal and state regulation could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition the banking business is heavily regulated by the federal and state governments. banking laws and rules are for the most part intended to protect depositors, not stockholders. banking laws and rules can change at any time. the government agencies responsible for supervising people united businesses can also change the way they interpret these laws and rules, even if the rules themselves do not change. we need to make sure that our business activities comply with any changes in these rules or the interpretation of the rules. we might be less profitable if we have to change the way we conduct business in order to comply. our business might suffer in other ways as well. changes in state and federal tax laws or the accounting standards we are required to follow can make our business less profitable. changes in the government economic and monetary policies may hurt our ability to compete for deposits and loans. changes in these policies can also make it more expensive for us to do business. the government agencies responsible for supervising our business can take drastic action if they think we are not conducting business safely or are too weak financially. they can force people united to hold additional capital, pay higher deposit insurance premiums, stop paying dividends, stop making certain kinds of loans or stop offering certain kinds of deposits. if the agencies took any of these steps or other similar steps, it would probably make our business less profitable. prior to february 23, 2015, the bank was subject to the qtl test and commercial loan limits imposed under the hola. 15 table of contents enactment of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 (the dfa ) has resulted in significant changes in the financial regulatory landscape, many of which affect us. among the more significant provisions of the dfa, as well as their actual or anticipated impact, if quantifiable, are: changes to the regulatory landscape, including: (i) change in both people united and the bank primary regulator; (ii) creation of the cfpb, which is empowered to promulgate new consumer protection regulations and revise existing regulations in many areas of consumer protection, and exercise exclusive authority over our consumer compliance examinations; and (iii) restrictions on the ability of federal bank regulatory authorities to preempt the application of state consumer protection laws and regulations. limitations on the amount of interchange fees that an issuer of debit cards may charge or receive: the dfa limits the amount of interchange fee that an issuer of debit cards may charge or receive to an amount that is reasonable and proportional to the cost of the transaction. the dfa further provides that a debit card issuer may not restrict the number of payment card networks on which a debit card transaction may be processed to a single network or limit the ability of a merchant to direct the routing of debit card payments for processing. the interchange fee provisions, which became effective in the fourth quarter of 2011, have resulted in a decline in bank service charges of approximately $20 million on an annualized basis. changes impacting the financial products and services we offer to our customers: all federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the dfa. as of december 31, 2014, the bank non-interest bearing deposits totaled $5.7 billion, or 22% of total deposits. the company interest expense may increase and net interest margin may decrease if it begins to offer higher rates of interest than are currently offered on demand deposits. stricter capital requirements for bank holding companies: the dfa imposes stringent capital requirements on bank holding companies by, among other things, imposing leverage ratios on holding companies and prohibiting the inclusion of new trust preferred issuances in tier i capital. the dfa also increases regulation of derivatives and hedging transactions, which could limit the ability of people united to enter into, or increase the costs associated with, interest rate and other hedging transactions. mortgage rules promulgated by the cfpb: the cfpb has issued a series of final rules to implement provisions in the dfa related to mortgage origination and mortgage servicing. these rules, which went into effect in january 2014 and which may increase the cost of originating and servicing residential mortgage loans, include: a rule to implement the requirement that creditors make a reasonable, good faith determination of a consumer ability to repay any consumer credit transaction secured by a dwelling and establish certain protections from liability under this requirement for qualified mortgages ; and a rule addressing mortgage servicers obligations to: correct errors asserted by mortgage loan borrowers; provide certain information requested by such borrowers; and provide protections to such borrowers in connection with force-placed insurance. additionally, this final rule addresses servicers obligations to: provide information about mortgage loss mitigation options to delinquent borrowers; establish policies and procedures for providing delinquent borrowers with continuity of contact with servicer personnel capable of performing certain functions; and evaluate borrowers applications for available loss mitigation options. 16 table of contents while it is difficult to fully quantify the increase in our regulatory compliance burden, we do believe that costs associated with regulatory compliance, including the need to hire additional compliance personnel, will continue to increase. because certain other provisions of the dfa still require regulatory rulemaking, it is not clear how those new regulations will affect people united. if people united allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings would decrease people united is exposed to the risk that customers will not be able to repay their loans. this risk is inherent in the lending business. there is also the risk that the customer collateral will not be sufficient to cover the balance of their loan, as underlying collateral values fluctuate with market changes. people united records an allowance for loan losses to cover probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio. the allowance for loan losses is established through provisions for loan losses charged to income. losses on loans, including impaired loans, are charged to the allowance for loan losses when all or a portion of a loan is deemed to be uncollectible. recoveries of loans previously charged off are credited to the allowance for loan losses when realized. people united maintains the allowance for loan losses at a level that is deemed to be appropriate to absorb probable losses inherent in the respective loan portfolios, based on a quarterly evaluation of a variety of factors. these factors include, but are not limited to: people united historical loan loss experience and recent trends in that experience; risk ratings assigned by lending personnel to commercial real estate loans, commercial and industrial loans and equipment financing loans, and the results of ongoing reviews of those ratings by people united independent loan review function; an evaluation of delinquent and non-performing loans and related collateral values; the probability of loss in view of geographic and industry concentrations and other portfolio risk characteristics; the present financial condition of borrowers; and current economic conditions. while people united seeks to use the best available information to make these evaluations, and at december 31, 2014, management believed that the allowance for loan losses was appropriate to cover probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio, it is possible that borrower defaults could exceed the current estimates for loan losses, which would reduce earnings. in addition, future increases to the allowance for loan losses may be necessary based on changes in economic conditions, results of regulatory examinations, further information obtained regarding known problem loans, increasing charge-offs of existing problem loans, or the identification of additional problem loans and other factors, which would also reduce earnings. our goodwill may be determined to be impaired at a future date depending on the results of periodic impairment evaluations people united evaluates goodwill for impairment on an annual basis (or more frequently, if necessary). according to applicable accounting requirements, acceptable valuation methods include present-value measurements based on multiples of earnings or revenues, or similar performance measures. if the quoted market price for people united common stock were to decline significantly, or if it was determined that the carrying amount of our goodwill exceeded its implied fair value, we would be required to write down the asset recorded for goodwill as reflected in the consolidated statements of condition. this, in turn, would result in a charge to earnings and, thus, a reduction in stockholders equity. see notes 1 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information concerning people united goodwill and the required impairment test. 17 table of contents people united may fail to successfully integrate acquired companies and realize all of the anticipated benefits of an acquisition the ultimate success of an acquisition will depend, in part, on the ability of people united to realize the anticipated benefits from combining the businesses of people united with those of an acquired company. if people united is not able to successfully combine the businesses, the anticipated benefits of a merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. a failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses we depend upon our ability to process, record and monitor a large number of customer transactions on a continuous basis. as customer, public and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions and breakdowns. information security risks for financial institutions, such as ours, have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists and other external parties. as noted above, our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks. our business operations rely on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software and networks to conduct their operations. in addition, to access our products and services, our customers may use electronic devices that are beyond our control systems. although we have information security procedures and controls in place, our technologies, systems, networks and our customers devices may become the target of cyber-attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our customers confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise disrupt our or our customers or other third parties business operations. third parties with whom we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges, clearing houses, financial intermediaries or vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, the size and scale of people united, our plans to continue to implement our internet banking and mobile banking channel strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers when and how they want to be served, our expanded geographic footprint, the outsourcing of some of our business operations and the continued uncertain global economic environment. as a result, cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a focus for us. as threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities. 18 table of contents disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our business and customers, or cyber-attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our products and services could result in customer attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. availability of first lien data with respect to our home equity loans and lines of credit could delay our response to any deterioration in the borrower credit we do not currently have statistics for our entire portfolio of home equity loans and lines of credit with respect to first liens serviced by third parties that have priority over our junior liens, as we did not historically capture that data on our loan servicing systems. as a result, we may therefore be unaware that the loan secured by the first lien is not performing, which could delay our response to an apparent deterioration in the borrower creditworthiness. as of december 31, 2014, full and complete first lien position data was not readily available for 48% of the home equity portfolio which, in turn, represented 4% of our overall loan portfolio at that date. we are actively working with a third-party vendor to obtain the missing first lien information and have, in certain cases, obtained the data through information reported to credit bureaus when the borrower defaults. this data collection effort, however, can be more difficult in cases where more than one mortgage is reported in a borrower credit report and/or there is not a corresponding property address associated with a reported mortgage, in which case we are often unable to associate a specific first lien with our junior lien. please see the discussion in management discussion and analysis asset quality portfolio risk elements home equity lending beginning on page 57 for more detail, including steps we are taking to otherwise address this issue. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 75 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk management market risk represents the risk of loss to earnings, capital and the economic values of certain assets and liabilities resulting from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. the only significant market risk exposure for people united at this time is irr, which is a result of the company core business activities of making loans and accepting deposits. interest rate risk the effective management of irr is essential to achieving the company financial objectives. responsibility for overseeing management of irr resides with alco. the goal of alco is to generate a stable net interest margin over entire interest rate cycles regardless of changes in either short- or long-term interest rates. generating earnings by taking excessive irr is prohibited by the irr limits established by the company board of directors. alco manages irr by using two primary risk measurement techniques: simulation of net interest income and simulation of economic value of equity. these two measurements are complementary and provide both short-term and long-term risk profiles of the company. net interest income at risk simulation is used to measure the sensitivity of net interest income to changes in market rates over a forward twelve-month period. this simulation captures underlying product behaviors, such as asset and liability re-pricing dates, balloon dates, interest rate indices and spreads, rate caps and floors, as well as other behavioral attributes. the simulation of net interest income also requires a number of key assumptions such as: (i) future balance sheet volume and mix assumptions that are management judgments based on estimates and historical experience; (ii) prepayment projections for loans and securities that are projected under each interest rate scenario using internal and external analytics; (iii) new business loan rates that are based on recent new business origination experience; and (iv) deposit pricing assumptions that are based on historical regression models and management judgment. combined, these assumptions can be inherently uncertain, and as a result, actual results may differ from simulation forecasts due to the timing, magnitude and frequency of interest rate changes, future business conditions, as well as unanticipated changes in management strategies. the company uses two sets of standard scenarios to measure net interest income at risk. parallel shock scenarios assume instantaneous parallel movements in the yield curve compared to a flat yield curve scenario. yield curve twist scenarios assume the shape of the curve flattens or steepens instantaneously centered around the 18-month point of the curve, thereby segmenting the yield curve into a short-end and a long-end . internal policy regarding irr simulations currently specifies that for instantaneous parallel shifts of the yield curve, estimated net income at risk for the subsequent one-year period should not decline by more than: 7% for a 100 basis point shift; 10% for a 200 basis point shift; and 15% for a 300 basis point shift. current policy does not specify limits for yield curve twist simulations. 75 table of contents the following tables set forth the estimated percent change in the company net interest income at risk over one-year simulation periods beginning december 31, 2014 and 2013. given the interest rate environment at those dates, simulations for interest rate declines of more than 25 basis points were not deemed to be meaningful. as of december 31 parallel shock rate change (basis points) estimated percent change in net interest income 2014 2013 +300 9.2 % 10.7 % +200 6.9 7.3 +100 3.4 3.1 -25 (1.1 ) (1.2 ) as of december 31 yield curve twist rate change (basis points) estimated percent change in net interest income 2014 2013 short end -25 (0.2 )% (0.4 )% short end +100 1.1 0.7 short end +200 2.7 2.7 long end -100 (4.1 ) (3.7 ) long end +100 2.6 2.3 long end +200 4.9 4.7 the net interest income at risk simulation results indicate that at both december 31, 2014 and 2013, the company is asset sensitive over the twelve-month forecast horizon (i.e. net interest income will increase if market rates rise). this is primarily due to (i) approximately 90% of the company loan portfolio being funded by less rate-sensitive core deposits and (ii) approximately 40% of the company loan portfolio being comprised of prime and one-month libor-based floating-rate loans. the increase in asset sensitivity in the +100 basis points scenario reflects an increase in floating-rate loans since december 31, 2013. in 2014, the company adopted more conservative deposit modeling assumptions, including higher price elasticity, runoff and time-deposit mix in a rising interest rate environment. the effect of adopting these assumption had the effect of reducing the company asset sensitivity, as seen in both the +200 and +300 basis point scenarios. the company is more asset sensitive when the short-end rises as a result of an increase in one-month libor-based floating-rate loans and core deposits since december 31, 2013. based on the company interest rate position at december 31, 2014, an immediate 100 basis point increase in interest rates translates to an approximate $30 million increase in net interest income on an annualized basis. economic value of equity at risk simulation is conducted in tandem with net interest income simulations, to ascertain a longer term view of the company irr position by capturing longer-term re-pricing risk and options risk embedded in the balance sheet. it measures the sensitivity of economic value of equity to changes in interest rates. economic value of equity at risk simulation values only the current balance sheet and does not incorporate the growth assumptions used for income simulations. as with net interest income modeling, this simulation captures product characteristics such as loan resets, re-pricing terms, maturity dates, rate caps and floors. key assumptions include loan prepayment speeds, deposit pricing elasticity and non-maturity deposit attrition rates. these assumptions can have significant impacts on valuation results as the assumptions remain in effect for the entire life of each asset and liability. the company conducts core deposit behavior studies on a periodic basis to support deposit assumptions used in the valuation process. all key assumptions are subject to a periodic review. base case economic value of equity at risk is calculated by estimating the net present value of all future cash flows from existing assets and liabilities using current interest rates. the base case scenario assumes that future interest rates remain unchanged. internal policy currently limits the exposure to a decrease in economic value of equity at risk resulting from instantaneous parallel shifts of the yield curve in the following manner: 5% for a 100 basis point shift; 10% for a 200 basis point shift; and 15% for a 300 basis point shift. 76 table of contents the following table sets forth the estimated percent change in the company economic value of equity at risk, assuming various instantaneous parallel shocks in interest rates. given the interest rate environment at both december 31, 2014 and 2013, simulations for interest rate declines of more than 25 basis points were not deemed to be meaningful. as of december 31 parallel shock rate change (basis points) estimated percent change in economic value of equity 2014 2013 +300 (7.8 )% (6.5 )% +200 (3.3 ) (2.6 ) +100 (0.6 ) (0.5 ) -25 (0.4 ) 0.4 the company economic value of equity at risk profile indicates that at both december 31, 2014 and 2013, the company is moderately liability sensitive in a rising interest rate environment. this liability sensitive profile is the result of slightly longer asset duration compared to the duration of liabilities. in 2014, the company updated deposit assumptions used in its irr model, which included higher deposit price elasticity and faster decay rates in a rising interest rate environment. as a result, the company economic value of equity is slightly more liability sensitive as compared to december 31, 2013. people united irr position at december 31, 2014, as set forth in the net interest income at risk and economic value of equity at risk tables above, reflects an asset sensitive net interest income at risk position and moderately liability sensitive economic value of equity at risk position. from a net interest income perspective, asset sensitivity over the next 12 months is primarily attributable to the effect of the substantial prime and libor-based loan balances that are primarily funded by less interest rate sensitive deposits. from an economic value of equity perspective, the increased value of these deposits in a rising interest rate environment is less than the decline in value of fixed-rate assets, which serves to create a moderately liability sensitive risk position. given the uncertainty of the magnitude, timing and direction of future interest rate movements and the shape of the yield curve, actual results may vary from those predicted by the company models. management has established procedures to be followed in the event of a breach in policy limits, or if those limits are approached. as of december 31, 2014, there were no breaches of the company internal policy limits with respect to either irr measure. management utilizes both interest rate measures in the normal course of measuring and managing irr and believes that each measure is valuable in understanding the company irr position. people united uses derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps, primarily for market risk management purposes (principally irr). certain other derivatives are entered into in connection with transactions with commercial customers. derivatives are not used for speculative purposes. at december 31, 2014, people united used interest rate swaps to manage irr associated with certain interest-bearing liabilities. people united has entered into an interest rate swap to hedge the libor-based floating interest rate payments on the company $125 million subordinated notes (such payments began in february 2012). the subordinated notes had a fixed interest rate of 5.80% until february 2012, at which time the interest rate converted to three month libor plus 68.5 basis points. people united has agreed with the swap counterparty to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed-rate (1.99%) and floating-rate interest amounts calculated based on a notional amount of $125 million. the floating rate interest amounts received under the swap are calculated using the same floating rate paid on the subordinated notes. the swap effectively converts the variable rate subordinated notes to a fixed interest rate and consequently reduces people united exposure to increases in interest rates. this swap is accounted for as a cash flow hedge. 77 table of contents the bank has entered into a pay floating/receive fixed interest rate swap to hedge the change in fair value of the bank $400 million subordinated notes due to changes in interest rates. the bank has agreed with the swap counterparty to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed-rate and floating-rate interest amounts calculated based on a notional amount of $375 million. the fixed-rate interest payments received on the swap will essentially offset the fixed-rate interest payments made on these notes, notwithstanding the notional difference between these notes and the swap. the floating-rate interest amounts paid under the swap are calculated based on three-month libor plus 126.5 basis points. the swap effectively converts the fixed-rate subordinated notes to a floating-rate liability. this swap is accounted for as a fair value hedge. people united has written guidelines that have been approved by its board of directors and alco governing the use of derivative financial instruments, including approved counterparties and credit limits. credit risk associated with these instruments is controlled and monitored through policies and procedures governing collateral management and credit approval. by using derivatives, people united is exposed to credit risk to the extent that counterparties to the derivative contracts do not perform as required. should a counterparty fail to perform under the terms of a derivative contract, the company counterparty credit risk is equal to the amount reported as a derivative asset in the consolidated statements of condition. in accordance with the company balance sheet offsetting policy (see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements), amounts reported as derivative assets represent derivative contracts in a gain position, without consideration for derivative contracts in a loss position with the same counterparty (to the extent subject to master netting arrangements) and posted collateral. people united seeks to minimize counterparty credit risk through credit approvals, limits, monitoring procedures, execution of master netting arrangements and obtaining collateral, where appropriate. counterparties to people united derivatives include major financial institutions and exchanges that undergo comprehensive and periodic internal credit analysis as well as maintain investment grade credit ratings from the major credit rating agencies. as such, management believes the risk of incurring credit losses on derivative contracts with those counterparties is remote and losses, if any, would be immaterial. certain of people united derivative contracts contain provisions establishing collateral requirements (subject to minimum collateral posting thresholds) based on the company external credit rating. if the company senior unsecured debt rating were to fall below the level generally recognized as investment grade, the counterparties to such derivative contracts could require additional collateral on those derivative transactions in a net liability position (after considering the effect of master netting arrangements and posted collateral). the aggregate fair value of derivative instruments with such credit-related contingent features that were in a net liability position at december 31, 2014 was $7.0 million, for which people united had posted collateral of $6.2 million in the normal course of business. if the company senior unsecured debt rating had fallen below investment grade as of that date, $0.8 million in additional collateral would have been required. foreign currency risk foreign exchange contracts are commitments to buy or sell foreign currency on a future date at a contractual price. people united uses these instruments on a limited basis to eliminate its exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates on certain of its commercial loans that are denominated in foreign currencies. gains and losses on foreign exchange contracts substantially offset the translation gains and losses on the related loans. since 2010, people united no longer designates foreign exchange contracts as hedging instruments. 78 table of contents derivative financial instruments the following table summarizes certain information concerning derivative financial instruments utilized by people united in its management of irr and foreign currency risk: interest rate swaps foreign exchange contracts as of december 31, 2014 (dollars in millions) cash flow hedge fair value hedge notional principal amounts $ 125.0 $ 375.0 $ 49.6 weighted average interest rates: pay floating (receive fixed) n/a libor+1.265% (4.00% ) n/a pay fixed (receive floating) 1.99% (libor+0.685% ) n/a n/a weighted average remaining term to maturity (in months) 26 115 1 fair value: recognized as an asset $ $ 15.1 $ 0.8 recognized as a liability 1.0 0.5 people united enters into interest rate swaps with certain of its commercial customers. in order to minimize its risk, these customer derivatives (pay floating/receive fixed) have been offset with essentially matching interest rate swaps with people united institutional counterparties (pay fixed/receive floating). hedge accounting has not been applied for these derivatives. accordingly, changes in the fair value of all such interest rate swaps are recognized in current earnings. the following table summarizes certain information concerning these interest rate swaps: interest rate swaps as of december 31, 2014 (dollars in millions) commercial customers institutional counterparties notional principal amounts $ 3,380.2 $ 3,380.2 weighted average interest rates: pay floating (receive fixed) 0.56% (2.09% ) pay fixed (receive floating) 1.99% (0.56% ) weighted average remaining term to maturity (in months) 88.0 88.0 fair value: recognized as an asset $ 104.2 $ 11.8 recognized as a liability 8.3 86.5 see notes 20 and 21 to the consolidated financial statements for further information relating to derivatives.risk factors 11 risk factors changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition people united makes most of its earnings based on the difference between interest it earns compared to interest it pays. this difference is called the interest spread. people united earns interest on loans and to a much lesser extent on securities and short-term investments. these are called interest-earning assets. people united pays interest on some forms of deposits and on funds it borrows from other sources. these are called interest-bearing liabilities. people united interest spread can change depending on when interest rates earned on interest-earning assets change, compared to when interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities change. some rate changes occur while these assets or liabilities are still on people united books. other rate changes occur when these assets or liabilities mature and are replaced by new interest-earning assets or interest-bearing liabilities at different rates. it may be difficult to replace interest-earning assets quickly, since customers may not want to borrow money when interest rates are high, or people united may not be able to make loans that meet its lending standards. people united interest spread may also change based on the mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. people united interest spread may be lower if the timing of interest rate changes is different for its interest-earning assets compared to its interest-bearing liabilities. for example, if interest rates go down, people united could earn less on some of its interest-earning assets while it is still obligated to pay higher rates on some of its interest-bearing liabilities. on the other hand, if interest rates go up, people united might have to pay more on some of its interest-bearing liabilities while it continues to receive lower rates on some of its interest-earning assets. people united manages this risk using many different techniques. if unsuccessful in managing this risk, people united may be less profitable. changes in our asset quality could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition asset quality measures the performance of a borrower in repaying a loan, with interest, on time. while we believe we have benefited from relatively stable asset quality, there are elements of our loan portfolio that inherently present greater credit risk, such as interest-only and stated income residential mortgage loans, home equity loans and lines with incomplete first lien data and commercial real estate loans. each of these portfolio risk elements, where potentially material in the context of our overall loan portfolio, are discussed in greater detail within management discussion &amp; analysis asset quality beginning on page 55. while the company believes that it manages asset quality through prudent underwriting practices and collection operations, it is possible that our asset quality could deteriorate, depending upon economic conditions and other factors. the success of our stop &amp; shop branches depends on the success of the stop &amp; shop brand one element of our strategy is to focus on increasing deposits by providing a wide range of convenient services to our customers. an integral component of this strategy is the bank supermarket banking initiative, pursuant to which, as of december 31, 2015, the bank has established 150 full-service stop &amp; shop branches throughout connecticut and southeastern new york, most of which are in close proximity to our traditional branches, which provide customers with the convenience of seven-day-a-week banking. at december 31, 2015, 38% of the bank branches were located in stop &amp; shop supermarkets and 15% of our total deposits at that date were held in stop &amp; shop branches. 11 table of contents the bank currently has exclusive branching rights in stop &amp; shop supermarkets in the state of connecticut and certain counties in the state of new york, in the form of licensing agreements between the stop &amp; shop supermarket company and the bank, which provides for the leasing of space to the bank within stop &amp; shop supermarkets for branch use. the bank has the exclusive right to branch in these supermarkets until 2027, provided that the bank does not default on its obligations under the licensing agreement. under the terms of the licensing agreements, the bank has the obligation to open branches in new stop &amp; shop locations, even if stop &amp; shop market share declines or the value of the stop &amp; shop brand is diminished. the licensing agreements do not stipulate the number of branch openings per year but, rather, apply only to those new stop &amp; shop locations that meet or exceed specified thresholds as to size (square footage) and/or customer traffic. based on our experience, we would expect the application of these thresholds to result in the opening of approximately 3-5 new branches per year in stop &amp; shop locations. stop &amp; shop is a leading grocery store in connecticut. the success of the bank supermarket branches is dependent, in part, on the success of the stop &amp; shop supermarkets in which they are located. a drop in stop &amp; shop market share, a decrease in the number of stop &amp; shop locations or customers, or a decline in the overall quality of stop &amp; shop supermarkets could result in decreased business for the stop &amp; shop branches, in the form of fewer loan originations, lower deposit generation and fewer overall branch transactions, and could influence market perception of the bank stop &amp; shop supermarket branches as convenient banking locations. we depend on our executive officers and key personnel to continue implementing our long-term business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services we believe that our continued growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management team. the competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry can be intense, and the loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. our business is affected by the international, national, regional and local economies in which we operate changes in international, national, regional and local economic conditions affect our business. if economic conditions change significantly or quickly, our business operations could suffer, and we could become weaker financially as a result. as a result of the financial crisis that existed for much of the period from 2008 through 2012, the housing and real estate markets, as well as the broader economy, experienced declines, both nationally and locally. housing market conditions in the new england region, where much of our lending activity occurs, were adversely impacted, leading to a reduced level of sales, increasing inventories of houses on the market, declining house prices and an increase in the length of time houses remained on the market. no assurance can be given that these conditions will not be repeated or that such conditions will not result in a decrease in our interest income, an increase in our non-performing loans, an increase in our provision for loan losses or an adverse impact on our loan losses. significant volatility in the financial and capital markets during this time led to credit and liquidity concerns, a recessionary economic environment and, in turn, weakness within the commercial sector. our loan portfolio is not immune to potential negative consequences arising as a result of general economic weakness and, in particular, a prolonged downturn in the housing market on a national scale. decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for loans. in addition, adverse changes in the economy could have a negative effect on the ability of borrowers to make scheduled loan payments, which would likely have an adverse impact on earnings. further, an increase in loan delinquencies may serve to decrease interest income and adversely impact loan loss experience, resulting in an increased provision and allowance for loan losses. 12 table of contents international economic uncertainty continues to have an impact on the u.s. financial markets, potentially suppressing stock prices and adding to volatility. our foreign country exposure, which is defined as the aggregation of exposure maintained with financial institutions, companies or individuals in a given country outside of the united states, is minimal and indirect, with the majority of such exposure comprised of corporate debt securities. our sovereign credit exposure is comprised of an immaterial amount of government bonds issued by a single non-european sovereign. the geographic concentration of our loan portfolio could make us vulnerable to a downturn in the economies in which we operate at december 31, 2015, 27%, 20% and 17% of the company loans by outstanding principal amount were to customers located within connecticut, new york and massachusetts, respectively. loans to people and businesses located in the new england states as a group represented 59% of total loans at that date. how well our business performs depends very much on the health of these regional and local economies. we could experience losses in our real estate-related loan portfolios if the prices for housing and other kinds of real estate decreased significantly in new england or southeastern new york. if the economic environment deteriorates, or negative trends emerge with respect to the financial markets, the new england and southeastern new york economies could suffer more than the national economy. this would be especially likely in fairfield county, connecticut (where the company is headquartered) as well as the suburban communities of new york city and boston as a result of the significant number of people living in these areas who also work in the financial services industry. in addition, our ability to continue to originate real estate loans may be impaired by adverse changes in the local and regional economic conditions in these real estate markets. decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for our loans. adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. in addition, if poor economic conditions result in decreased demand for real estate loans, our profits may decrease because our alternative investments may earn less income for us than real estate loans. our equipment financing business, which operates nationally, could be negatively affected by adverse changes in the national economy, even if those changes have no significant effect on the local and regional economies in which our other businesses operate. no assurance can be given that such conditions will not occur or that such conditions will not result in a decrease in our interest income, an increase in our non-performing loans, an increase in our provision for loan losses or an adverse impact on our loan losses. in response to competitive pressures, our costs could increase if we were required to increase our service and convenience levels or our margins could decrease if we were required to increase deposit rates or lower interest rates on loans people united faces significant competition for deposits and loans. in deciding where to deposit their money, many people look first at the interest rate they will earn. they also might consider whether a bank offers other kinds of services they might need and, if they have been a customer of a bank before, what their experience was like. people also like convenience, so the number of offices and banking hours may be important. some people also prefer the availability of on-line services. 13 table of contents people united competes with other banks, credit unions, brokerage firms and money market funds for deposits. some people may decide to buy bonds or similar kinds of investments issued by companies or by federal, state and local governments and agencies, instead of opening a deposit account. in making decisions about loans, many people consider the interest rate they will have to pay. they also consider any extra fees they might have to pay in order to get the loan. many business loans are more complicated because there may not be a standard type of loan that meets all of the customer needs. business borrowers consider many different factors that are not all financial in nature, including the type and amount of security the lender wants and other terms of the loan that do not involve the interest rate. people united competes with other banks, credit unions, credit card issuers, finance companies, mortgage lenders and mortgage brokers for loans. insurance companies also compete with people united for some types of commercial loans. several of people united competitors have branches in the same market area as it does, some of which are much larger than it is. the new england region, including connecticut, which is people united predominant market, and specifically fairfield county, where people united is headquartered, is an attractive banking market. as locally-based banks continue to be acquired by large regional and national companies, there are not as many bank competitors in our market as there used to be, but the remaining ones are usually larger and have more resources than the banks they acquired. people united also has competition from outside its own market area. a bank that does not have any branches in our primary markets can still have customers there by providing banking services on-line. it costs money to set up and maintain a branch system. banks that do not spend as much money as people united does on branches might be more profitable than it is, even if they pay higher interest on deposits and charge lower interest on loans. changes in federal and state regulation could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition the banking business is heavily regulated by the federal and state governments. banking laws and rules are for the most part intended to protect depositors, not stockholders. banking laws and rules can change at any time. the government agencies responsible for supervising people united businesses can also change the way they interpret these laws and rules, even if the rules themselves do not change. we need to make sure that our business activities comply with any changes in these rules or the interpretation of the rules. we might be less profitable if we have to change the way we conduct business in order to comply. our business might suffer in other ways as well. changes in state and federal tax laws or the accounting standards we are required to follow can make our business less profitable. changes in the government economic and monetary policies may hurt our ability to compete for deposits and loans. changes in these policies can also make it more expensive for us to do business. the government agencies responsible for supervising our business can take drastic action if they think we are not conducting business safely or are too weak financially. they can force people united to hold additional capital, pay higher deposit insurance premiums, stop paying dividends, stop making certain kinds of loans or stop offering certain kinds of deposits. if the agencies took any of these steps or other similar steps, it would probably make our business less profitable. 14 table of contents enactment of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 (the dfa ) has resulted in significant changes in the financial regulatory landscape, many of which affect us. among the more significant provisions of the dfa, as well as their actual or anticipated impact, if quantifiable, are: changes to the regulatory landscape, including: (i) creation of the cfpb, which is empowered to promulgate new consumer protection regulations and revise existing regulations in many areas of consumer protection, and exercise exclusive authority over our consumer compliance examinations; and (ii) restrictions on the ability of federal bank regulatory authorities to preempt the application of state consumer protection laws and regulations. limitations on the amount of interchange fees that an issuer of debit cards may charge or receive: the dfa limits the amount of interchange fee that an issuer of debit cards may charge or receive to an amount that is reasonable and proportional to the cost of the transaction. the dfa further provides that a debit card issuer may not restrict the number of payment card networks on which a debit card transaction may be processed to a single network or limit the ability of a merchant to direct the routing of debit card payments for processing. changes impacting the financial products and services we offer to our customers: all federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the dfa. as of december 31, 2015, the bank non-interest bearing deposits totaled $6.2 billion, or 22% of total deposits. the company interest expense may increase and net interest margin may decrease if it begins to offer higher rates of interest than are currently offered on demand deposits. stricter capital requirements for bank holding companies: the dfa imposes stringent capital requirements on bank holding companies by, among other things, imposing leverage ratios on holding companies and prohibiting the inclusion of new trust preferred issuances in tier i capital. the dfa also increases regulation of derivatives and hedging transactions, which could limit the ability of people united to enter into, or increase the costs associated with, interest rate and other hedging transactions. mortgage rules promulgated by the cfpb: the cfpb has issued a series of final rules to implement provisions in the dfa related to mortgage origination and mortgage servicing. these rules, which went into effect in january 2014 and which may increase the cost of originating and servicing residential mortgage loans, include: a rule to implement the requirement that creditors make a reasonable, good faith determination of a consumer ability to repay any consumer credit transaction secured by a dwelling and establish certain protections from liability under this requirement for qualified mortgages ; and a rule addressing mortgage servicers obligations to: correct errors asserted by mortgage loan borrowers; provide certain information requested by such borrowers; and provide protections to such borrowers in connection with force-placed insurance. additionally, this final rule addresses servicers obligations to: provide information about mortgage loss mitigation options to delinquent borrowers; establish policies and procedures for providing delinquent borrowers with continuity of contact with servicer personnel capable of performing certain functions; and evaluate borrowers applications for available loss mitigation options. 15 table of contents while it is difficult to fully quantify the increase in our regulatory compliance burden, we do believe that costs associated with regulatory compliance, including the need to hire additional compliance personnel, will continue to increase. because certain other provisions of the dfa still require regulatory rulemaking, it is not clear how those new regulations will affect people united. if people united allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings would decrease people united is exposed to the risk that customers will not be able to repay their loans. this risk is inherent in the lending business. there is also the risk that the customer collateral will not be sufficient to cover the balance of their loan, as underlying collateral values fluctuate with market changes. people united records an allowance for loan losses to cover probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio. the allowance for loan losses is established through provisions for loan losses charged to income. losses on loans, including impaired loans, are charged to the allowance for loan losses when all or a portion of a loan is deemed to be uncollectible. recoveries of loans previously charged off are credited to the allowance for loan losses when realized. people united maintains the allowance for loan losses at a level that is deemed to be appropriate to absorb probable losses inherent in the respective loan portfolios, based on a quarterly evaluation of a variety of factors. these factors include, but are not limited to: people united historical loan loss experience and recent trends in that experience; risk ratings assigned by lending personnel to commercial real estate loans, commercial and industrial loans and equipment financing loans, and the results of ongoing reviews of those ratings by people united independent loan review function; an evaluation of delinquent and non-performing loans and related collateral values; the probability of loss in view of geographic and industry concentrations and other portfolio risk characteristics; the present financial condition of borrowers; and current economic conditions. while people united seeks to use the best available information to make these evaluations and, at december 31, 2015, believed that the allowance for loan losses was appropriate to cover probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio, it is possible that borrower defaults could exceed the current estimates for loan losses, which would reduce earnings. in addition, future increases to the allowance for loan losses may be necessary based on changes in economic conditions, results of regulatory examinations, further information obtained regarding known problem loans, increasing charge-offs of existing problem loans, or the identification of additional problem loans and other factors, which would also reduce earnings. see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information concerning people united allowance for loan losses. our goodwill may be determined to be impaired at a future date depending on the results of periodic impairment evaluations people united evaluates goodwill for impairment on an annual basis (or more frequently, if necessary). according to applicable accounting requirements, acceptable valuation methods include present-value measurements based on multiples of earnings or revenues, or similar performance measures. if the quoted market price for people united common stock were to decline significantly, or if it was determined that the carrying amount of our goodwill exceeded its implied fair value, we would be required to write down the asset recorded for goodwill as reflected in the consolidated statements of condition. this, in turn, would result in a charge to earnings and, thus, a reduction in stockholders equity. see notes 1 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information concerning people united goodwill and the required impairment test. 16 table of contents people united may fail to successfully integrate acquired companies and realize all of the anticipated benefits of an acquisition the ultimate success of an acquisition will depend, in part, on the ability of people united to realize the anticipated benefits from combining the businesses of people united with those of an acquired company. if people united is not able to successfully combine the businesses, the anticipated benefits of a merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. a failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses we depend upon our ability to process, record and monitor a large number of customer transactions on a continuous basis. as customer, public and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions and breakdowns. information security risks for financial institutions, such as ours, have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists and other external parties. as noted above, our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks. our business operations rely on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software and networks to conduct their operations. in addition, to access our products and services, our customers may use electronic devices that are beyond our control systems. although we have information security procedures and controls in place, our technologies, systems, networks and our customers devices may become the target of cyber-attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our customers confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise disrupt our or our customers or other third parties business operations. third parties with whom we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges, clearing houses, financial intermediaries or vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, the size and scale of people united, our plans to continue to implement our internet banking and mobile banking channel strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers when and how they want to be served, our expanded geographic footprint, the outsourcing of some of our business operations and the continued uncertain global economic environment. as a result, cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a focus for us. as threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities. 17 table of contents disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our business and customers, or cyber-attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our products and services could result in customer attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. availability of first lien data with respect to our home equity loans and lines of credit could delay our response to any deterioration in the borrower credit we do not currently have statistics for our entire portfolio of home equity loans and lines of credit with respect to first liens serviced by third parties that have priority over our junior liens, as we did not historically capture that data on our loan servicing systems. as a result, we may therefore be unaware that the loan secured by the first lien is not performing, which could delay our response to an apparent deterioration in the borrower creditworthiness. as of december 31, 2015, full and complete first lien position data was not readily available for 38% of the home equity portfolio which, in turn, represented 3% of our overall loan portfolio at that date. we are actively working with a third-party vendor to obtain the missing first lien information and have, in certain cases, obtained the data through information reported to credit bureaus when the borrower defaults. this data collection effort, however, can be more difficult in cases where more than one mortgage is reported in a borrower credit report and/or there is not a corresponding property address associated with a reported mortgage, in which case we are often unable to associate a specific first lien with our junior lien. please see the discussion in management discussion and analysis asset quality portfolio risk elements home equity lending beginning on page 57 for more detail, including steps we are taking to otherwise address this issue. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 73 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk management market risk represents the risk of loss to earnings, capital and the economic values of certain assets and liabilities resulting from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. the only significant market risk exposure for people united at this time is irr, which is a result of the company core business activities of making loans and accepting deposits. 73 table of contents interest rate risk the effective management of irr is essential to achieving the company financial objectives. responsibility for overseeing management of irr resides with alco. the goal of alco is to generate a stable net interest margin over entire interest rate cycles regardless of changes in either short- or long-term interest rates. generating earnings by taking excessive irr is prohibited by the irr limits established by the company board of directors. alco manages irr by using two primary risk measurement techniques: simulation of net interest income and simulation of economic value of equity. these two measurements are complementary and provide both short-term and long-term risk profiles of the company. net interest income at risk simulation is used to measure the sensitivity of net interest income to changes in market rates over a forward twelve-month period. this simulation captures underlying product behaviors, such as asset and liability re-pricing dates, balloon dates, interest rate indices and spreads, rate caps and floors, as well as other behavioral attributes. the simulation of net interest income also requires a number of key assumptions such as: (i) future balance sheet volume and mix assumptions that are management judgments based on estimates and historical experience; (ii) prepayment projections for loans and securities that are projected under each interest rate scenario using internal and external analytics; (iii) new business loan rates that are based on recent new business origination experience; and (iv) deposit pricing assumptions that are based on historical regression models and management judgment. combined, these assumptions can be inherently uncertain, and as a result, actual results may differ from simulation forecasts due to the timing, magnitude and frequency of interest rate changes, future business conditions, as well as unanticipated changes in management strategies. the company uses two sets of standard scenarios to measure net interest income at risk. parallel shock scenarios assume instantaneous parallel movements in the yield curve compared to a flat yield curve scenario. yield curve twist scenarios assume the shape of the curve flattens or steepens instantaneously centered around the 18-month point of the curve, thereby segmenting the yield curve into a short-end and a long-end . internal policy regarding irr simulations currently specifies that for instantaneous parallel shifts of the yield curve, estimated net interest income at risk for the subsequent one-year period should not decline by more than: 7% for a 100 basis point shift; 10% for a 200 basis point shift; and 15% for a 300 basis point shift. current policy does not specify limits for yield curve twist simulations. the following tables set forth the estimated percent change in the company net interest income at risk over one-year simulation periods beginning december 31, 2015 and 2014. given the interest rate environment at those dates, simulations for interest rate declines of more than 25 basis points were not modeled but were considered by the company as part of its overall management of irr. as of december 31 parallel shock rate change (basis points) estimated percent change in net interest income 2015 2014 +300 9.6 % 9.2 % +200 6.9 6.9 +100 3.7 3.4 -25 (1.3 ) (1.1 ) as of december 31 yield curve twist rate change (basis points) estimated percent change in net interest income 2015 2014 short end -25 (0.6 )% (0.2 )% short end +100 1.8 1.1 short end +200 3.6 2.7 long end -100 (4.0 ) (4.1 ) long end +100 2.0 2.6 long end +200 3.5 4.9 74 table of contents the net interest income at risk simulation results indicate that at both december 31, 2015 and 2014, the company is asset sensitive over the twelve-month forecast horizon (i.e. net interest income will increase if market rates rise). this is primarily due to (i) approximately 87% of the company loan portfolio being funded by less rate-sensitive core deposits and (ii) approximately 42% of the company loan portfolio being comprised of prime and one-month libor-based floating-rate loans. the company asset sensitivity increases when the short-end rises (as a result of increases in both one-month libor-based floating-rate loans and core deposits) as well as when the long-end rises (as a result of reinvesting the proceeds from loan and securities repayments, and originating new fixed-rate loans at rates higher than the existing portfolio). based on the company irr position at december 31, 2015, an immediate 100 basis point parallel increase in interest rates translates to an approximate $37 million increase in net interest income on an annualized basis. economic value of equity at risk simulation is conducted in tandem with net interest income simulations, to ascertain a longer term view of the company irr position by capturing longer-term re-pricing risk and options risk embedded in the balance sheet. it measures the sensitivity of economic value of equity to changes in interest rates. economic value of equity at risk simulation values only the current balance sheet and does not incorporate the growth assumptions used for income simulations. as with net interest income modeling, this simulation captures product characteristics such as loan resets, re-pricing terms, maturity dates, rate caps and floors. key assumptions include loan prepayment speeds, deposit pricing elasticity and non-maturity deposit attrition rates. these assumptions can have significant impacts on valuation results as the assumptions remain in effect for the entire life of each asset and liability. the company conducts core deposit behavior studies on a periodic basis to support deposit assumptions used in the valuation process. all key assumptions are subject to a periodic review. base case economic value of equity at risk is calculated by estimating the net present value of all future cash flows from existing assets and liabilities using current interest rates. the base case scenario assumes that future interest rates remain unchanged. internal policy currently limits the exposure to a decrease in economic value of equity at risk resulting from instantaneous parallel shifts of the yield curve in the following manner: 5% for a 100 basis point shift; 10% for a 200 basis point shift; and 15% for a 300 basis point shift. the following table sets forth the estimated percent change in the company economic value of equity at risk, assuming various instantaneous parallel shocks in interest rates. given the interest rate environment at both december 31, 2015 and 2014, simulations for interest rate declines of more than 25 basis points were not modeled but were considered by the company as part of its overall management of irr. as of december 31 parallel shock rate change (basis points) estimated percent change in economic value of equity 2015 2014 +300 (6.4 )% (7.8 )% +200 (2.0 ) (3.3 ) +100 0.5 (0.6 ) -25 (0.7 ) (0.4 ) the company economic value of equity at risk profile indicates that at december 31, 2015, the company has effectively no economic value of equity risk within a +100 basis points shock but becomes moderately liability sensitive for rate shocks greater than +100 basis points due to lengthening asset duration. the company economic value of equity risk declined at december 31, 2015 as compared to december 31, 2014, reflecting increases in floating-rate loans and core deposits. 75 table of contents people united irr position at december 31, 2015, as set forth in the net interest income at risk and economic value of equity at risk tables above, reflects an asset sensitive net interest income at risk position and a moderately liability sensitive economic value of equity at risk position. from a net interest income perspective, asset sensitivity over the next 12 months is primarily attributable to the effect of the substantial prime and libor-based loan balances that are primarily funded by less interest rate sensitive deposits. from an economic value of equity perspective, the increased value of these deposits in a rising interest rate environment is less than the decline in value of fixed-rate assets, which serves to create a moderately liability sensitive risk position for rate shocks greater than +100 basis points. given the uncertainty of the magnitude, timing and direction of future interest rate movements and the shape of the yield curve, actual results may vary from those predicted by the company models. management has established procedures to be followed in the event of an anticipated or actual breach in policy limits. as of december 31, 2015, there were no breaches of the company internal policy limits with respect to either irr measure. management utilizes both interest rate measures in the normal course of measuring and managing irr and believes that each measure is valuable in understanding the company irr position. people united uses derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps, as components of its market risk management (principally to manage irr). certain other derivatives are entered into in connection with transactions with commercial customers. derivatives are not used for speculative purposes. at december 31, 2015, people united used interest rate swaps to manage irr associated with certain interest-bearing liabilities. people united has entered into a pay fixed/receive floating interest rate swap to hedge the libor-based floating interest rate payments on the company $125 million subordinated notes (such payments began in february 2012). these notes had a fixed interest rate of 5.80% until february 2012, at which time the interest rate converted to three-month libor plus 68.5 basis points. people united has agreed with the swap counterparty to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed-rate (1.99%) and floating-rate interest amounts calculated based on a notional amount of $125 million. the floating-rate interest amounts received under the swap are calculated using the same floating-rate paid on these notes. the swap effectively converts the variable-rate subordinated notes to a fixed-rate liability and consequently reduces people united exposure to increases in interest rates. this swap is accounted for as a cash flow hedge. the bank has entered into a pay floating/receive fixed interest rate swap to hedge the change in fair value due to changes in interest rates of the bank $400 million subordinated notes. the bank has agreed with the swap counterparty to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed-rate and floating-rate interest amounts calculated based on a notional amount of $375 million. the fixed-rate interest payments received on the swap will essentially offset the fixed-rate interest payments made on these notes, notwithstanding the notional difference between these notes and the swap. the floating-rate interest amounts paid under the swap are calculated based on three-month libor plus 126.5 basis points. the swap effectively converts the fixed-rate subordinated notes to a floating-rate liability. this swap is accounted for as a fair value hedge. people united has written guidelines that have been approved by its board of directors and alco governing the use of derivative financial instruments, including approved counterparties and credit limits. credit risk associated with these instruments is controlled and monitored through policies and procedures governing collateral management and credit approval. 76 table of contents by using derivatives, people united is exposed to credit risk to the extent that counterparties to the derivative contracts do not perform as required. should a counterparty fail to perform under the terms of a derivative contract, the company counterparty credit risk is equal to the amount reported as a derivative asset in the consolidated statements of condition. in accordance with the company balance sheet offsetting policy (see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements), amounts reported as derivative assets represent derivative contracts in a gain position, without consideration for derivative contracts in a loss position with the same counterparty (to the extent subject to master netting arrangements) and posted collateral. people united seeks to minimize counterparty credit risk through credit approvals, limits, monitoring procedures, execution of master netting arrangements and obtaining collateral, where appropriate. counterparties to people united derivatives include major financial institutions and exchanges that undergo comprehensive and periodic internal credit analysis as well as maintain investment grade credit ratings from the major credit rating agencies. as such, management believes the risk of incurring credit losses on derivative contracts with those counterparties is remote and losses, if any, would be immaterial. certain of people united derivative contracts contain provisions establishing collateral requirements (subject to minimum collateral posting thresholds) based on the company external credit rating. if the company senior unsecured debt rating were to fall below the level generally recognized as investment grade, the counterparties to such derivative contracts could require additional collateral on those derivative transactions in a net liability position (after considering the effect of master netting arrangements and posted collateral). the aggregate fair value of derivative instruments with such credit-related contingent features that were in a net liability position at december 31, 2015 was $8.8 million, for which people united had posted collateral of $8.3 million in the normal course of business. if the company senior unsecured debt rating had fallen below investment grade as of that date, $0.5 million in additional collateral would have been required. foreign currency risk foreign exchange contracts are commitments to buy or sell foreign currency on a future date at a contractual price. people united uses these instruments on a limited basis to eliminate its exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates on certain of its commercial loans that are denominated in foreign currencies. gains and losses on foreign exchange contracts substantially offset the translation gains and losses on the related loans. derivative financial instruments the following table summarizes certain information concerning derivative financial instruments utilized by people united in its management of irr and foreign currency risk: interest rate swaps foreign exchange contracts as of december 31, 2015 (dollars in millions) cash flow hedge fair value hedge notional principal amounts $ 125.0 $ 375.0 $ 56.7 weighted average interest rates: pay floating (receive fixed) n/a libor+1.265% (4.00% ) n/a pay fixed (receive floating) 1.99% (libor+0.685% ) n/a n/a weighted average remaining term to maturity (in months) 14 103 3 fair value: recognized as an asset $ $ 18.9 $ 0.6 recognized as a liability 0.6 0.2 77 table of contents people united enters into interest rate swaps with certain of its commercial customers. in order to minimize its risk, these customer derivatives (pay floating/receive fixed) have been offset with essentially matching interest rate swaps with people united institutional counterparties (pay fixed/receive floating). hedge accounting has not been applied for these derivatives. accordingly, changes in the fair value of all such interest rate swaps are recognized in current earnings. the following table summarizes certain information concerning these interest rate swaps: interest rate swaps as of december 31, 2015 (dollars in millions) commercial customers institutional counterparties notional principal amounts $4,644.8 $4,644.8 weighted average interest rates: pay floating (receive fixed) 0.65% (1.97% ) pay fixed (receive floating) 1.87% (0.65% ) weighted average remaining term to maturity (in months) 84 84 fair value: recognized as an asset $ 130.9 $ 7.2 recognized as a liability 2.6 105.3 see notes 20 and 21 to the consolidated financial statements for further information relating to derivatives.risk factors 11 risk factors changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition people united makes most of its earnings based on the difference between interest it earns compared to interest it pays. this difference is called the interest spread. people united earns interest on loans and to a much lesser extent on securities and short-term investments. these are called interest-earning assets. people united pays interest on some forms of deposits and on funds it borrows from other sources. these are called interest-bearing liabilities. people united interest spread can change depending on when interest rates earned on interest-earning assets change, compared to when interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities change. some rate changes occur while these assets or liabilities are still on people united books. other rate changes occur when these assets or liabilities mature and are replaced by new interest-earning assets or interest-bearing liabilities at different rates. it may be difficult to replace interest-earning assets quickly, since customers may not want to borrow money when interest rates are high, or people united may not be able to make loans that meet its lending standards. people united interest spread may also change based on the mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. people united interest spread may be lower if the timing of interest rate changes is different for its interest-earning assets compared to its interest-bearing liabilities. for example, if interest rates go down, people united could earn less on some of its interest-earning assets while it is still obligated to pay higher rates on some of its interest-bearing liabilities. on the other hand, if interest rates go up, people united might have to pay more on some of its interest-bearing liabilities while it continues to receive lower rates on some of its interest-earning assets. people united manages this risk using many different techniques. if unsuccessful in managing this risk, people united may be less profitable. changes in our asset quality could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition asset quality measures the performance of a borrower in repaying a loan, with interest, on time. while we believe we have benefited from relatively stable asset quality, there are elements of our loan portfolio that inherently present greater credit risk, such as interest-only residential mortgage loans, home equity loans and lines with incomplete first lien data, and commercial real estate loans. each of these portfolio risk elements, where potentially material in the context of our overall loan portfolio, are discussed in greater detail within management discussion and analysis asset quality beginning on page 55. while the company believes that it manages asset quality through prudent underwriting practices and collection operations, it is possible that our asset quality could deteriorate, depending upon economic conditions and other factors. the success of our stop &amp; shop branches depends on the success of the stop &amp; shop brand one element of our strategy is to focus on increasing deposits by providing a wide range of convenient services to our customers. an integral component of this strategy is the bank supermarket banking initiative, pursuant to which, as of december 31, 2016, the bank has established 146 full-service stop &amp; shop branches throughout connecticut and southeastern new york, most of which are in close proximity to our traditional branches, which provide customers with the convenience of seven-day-a-week banking. at december 31, 2016, 38% of the bank branches were located in stop &amp; shop supermarkets and 15% of our total deposits at that date were held in stop &amp; shop branches. 11 table of contents the bank currently has exclusive branching rights in stop &amp; shop supermarkets in the state of connecticut and certain counties in the state of new york, in the form of licensing agreements between the stop &amp; shop supermarket company and the bank, which provides for the leasing of space to the bank within stop &amp; shop supermarkets for branch use. the bank has the exclusive right to branch in these supermarkets until 2027, provided that the bank does not default on its obligations under the licensing agreement. under the terms of the licensing agreements, the bank has the obligation to open branches in new stop &amp; shop locations, even if stop &amp; shop market share declines or the value of the stop &amp; shop brand is diminished. the licensing agreements do not stipulate the number of branch openings per year but, rather, apply only to those new stop &amp; shop locations that meet or exceed specified thresholds as to size (square footage) and/or customer traffic. based on our experience, we would expect the application of these thresholds to result in the opening of approximately 4-6 new branches per year in stop &amp; shop locations. stop &amp; shop is a leading grocery store in connecticut. the success of the bank supermarket branches is dependent, in part, on the success of the stop &amp; shop supermarkets in which they are located. a drop in stop &amp; shop market share, a decrease in the number of stop &amp; shop locations or customers, or a decline in the overall quality of stop &amp; shop supermarkets could result in decreased business for the stop &amp; shop branches, in the form of fewer loan originations, lower deposit generation and fewer overall branch transactions, and could influence market perception of the bank stop &amp; shop supermarket branches as convenient banking locations. we depend on our executive officers and key personnel to continue implementing our long-term business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services we believe that our continued growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management team. the competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry can be intense, and the loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. our business is affected by the international, national, regional and local economies in which we operate changes in international, national, regional and local economic conditions affect our business. if economic conditions change significantly or quickly, our business operations could suffer, and we could become weaker financially as a result. as a result of the financial crisis that existed for much of the period from 2008 through 2012, the housing and real estate markets, as well as the broader economy, experienced declines, both nationally and locally. housing market conditions in the new england region, where much of our lending activity occurs, were adversely impacted, leading to a reduced level of sales, increasing inventories of houses on the market, declining house prices and an increase in the length of time houses remained on the market. no assurance can be given that these conditions will not be repeated or that such conditions will not result in a decrease in our interest income, an increase in our non-performing loans, an increase in our provision for loan losses or an adverse impact on our loan losses. significant volatility in the financial and capital markets during this time led to credit and liquidity concerns, a recessionary economic environment and, in turn, weakness within the commercial sector. our loan portfolio is not immune to potential negative consequences arising as a result of general economic weakness and, in particular, a prolonged downturn in the housing market on a national scale. decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for loans. in addition, adverse changes in the economy could have a negative effect on the ability of borrowers to make scheduled loan payments, which would likely have an adverse impact on earnings. further, an increase in loan delinquencies may serve to decrease interest income and adversely impact loan loss experience, resulting in an increased provision and allowance for loan losses. 12 table of contents international economic uncertainty continues to have an impact on the u.s. financial markets, potentially suppressing stock prices and adding to volatility. our foreign country exposure, which is defined as the aggregation of exposure maintained with financial institutions, companies or individuals in a given country outside of the u.s., is minimal and indirect, with the majority of such exposure comprised of corporate debt securities. our sovereign credit exposure is comprised of an immaterial amount of government bonds issued by a single non-european sovereign. the geographic concentration of our loan portfolio could make us vulnerable to a downturn in the economies in which we operate at december 31, 2016, 26%, 19% and 18% of the company loans by outstanding principal amount were to customers located within connecticut, new york and massachusetts, respectively. loans to people and businesses located in the new england states as a group represented 59% of total loans at that date. how well our business performs depends very much on the health of these regional and local economies. we could experience losses in our real estate-related loan portfolios if the prices for housing and other kinds of real estate decreased significantly in new england or southeastern new york. if the economic environment deteriorates, or negative trends emerge with respect to the financial markets, the new england and southeastern new york economies could suffer more than the national economy. this would be especially likely in fairfield county, connecticut (where the company is headquartered) as well as the suburban communities of new york city and boston as a result of the significant number of people living in these areas who also work in the financial services industry. in addition, our ability to continue to originate real estate loans may be impaired by adverse changes in the local and regional economic conditions in these real estate markets. decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for our loans. adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. in addition, if poor economic conditions result in decreased demand for real estate loans, our profits may decrease because our alternative investments may earn less income for us than real estate loans. our equipment financing business, which operates nationally, could be negatively affected by adverse changes in the national economy, even if those changes have no significant effect on the local and regional economies in which our other businesses operate. no assurance can be given that such conditions will not occur or that such conditions will not result in a decrease in our interest income, an increase in our non-performing loans, an increase in our provision for loan losses or an adverse impact on our loan losses. in response to competitive pressures, our costs could increase if we were required to increase our service and convenience levels or our margins could decrease if we were required to increase deposit rates or lower interest rates on loans people united faces significant competition for deposits and loans. in deciding where to deposit their money, many people look first at the interest rate they will earn. they also might consider whether a bank offers other kinds of services they might need and, if they have been a customer of a bank before, what their experience was like. people also like convenience, so the number of offices and banking hours may be important. some people also prefer the availability of on-line services. 13 table of contents people united competes with other banks, credit unions, brokerage firms and money market funds for deposits. some people may decide to buy bonds or similar kinds of investments issued by companies or by federal, state and local governments and agencies, instead of opening a deposit account. in making decisions about loans, many people consider the interest rate they will have to pay. they also consider any extra fees they might have to pay in order to get the loan. many business loans are more complicated because there may not be a standard type of loan that meets all of the customer needs. business borrowers consider many different factors that are not all financial in nature, including the type and amount of security the lender wants and other terms of the loan that do not involve the interest rate. people united competes with other banks, credit unions, credit card issuers, finance companies, mortgage lenders and mortgage brokers for loans. insurance companies also compete with people united for some types of commercial loans. several of people united competitors have branches in the same market area as it does, some of which are much larger than it is. the new england region, including connecticut, which is people united predominant market, and specifically fairfield county, where people united is headquartered, is an attractive banking market. as locally-based banks continue to be acquired by large regional and national companies, there are not as many bank competitors in our market as there used to be, but the remaining ones are usually larger and have more resources than the banks they acquired. people united also has competition from outside its own market area. a bank that does not have any branches in our primary markets can still have customers there by providing banking services on-line. it costs money to set up and maintain a branch system. banks that do not spend as much money as people united does on branches might be more profitable than it is, even if they pay higher interest on deposits and charge lower interest on loans. changes in federal and state regulation could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition the banking business is heavily regulated by the federal and state governments. banking laws and rules are for the most part intended to protect depositors, not stockholders. banking laws and rules can change at any time. the government agencies responsible for supervising people united businesses can also change the way they interpret these laws and rules, even if the rules themselves do not change. we need to make sure that our business activities comply with any changes in these rules or the interpretation of the rules. we might be less profitable if we have to change the way we conduct business in order to comply. our business might suffer in other ways as well. changes in state and federal tax laws or the accounting standards we are required to follow can make our business less profitable. changes in the government economic and monetary policies may hurt our ability to compete for deposits and loans. changes in these policies can also make it more expensive for us to do business. the government agencies responsible for supervising our business can take drastic action if they think we are not conducting business safely or are too weak financially. they can force people united to hold additional capital, pay higher deposit insurance premiums, stop paying dividends, stop making certain kinds of loans or stop offering certain kinds of deposits. if the agencies took any of these steps or other similar steps, it would probably make our business less profitable. 14 table of contents enactment of the dfa has resulted in significant changes in the financial regulatory landscape, many of which affect us. among the more significant provisions of the dfa, as well as their actual or anticipated impact, if quantifiable, are: changes to the regulatory landscape, including: (i) creation of the cfpb, which is empowered to promulgate new consumer protection regulations and revise existing regulations in many areas of consumer protection, and exercise exclusive authority over our consumer compliance examinations; and (ii) restrictions on the ability of federal bank regulatory authorities to preempt the application of state consumer protection laws and regulations. limitations on the amount of interchange fees that an issuer of debit cards may charge or receive: the dfa limits the amount of interchange fee that an issuer of debit cards may charge or receive to an amount that is reasonable and proportional to the cost of the transaction. the dfa further provides that a debit card issuer may not restrict the number of payment card networks on which a debit card transaction may be processed to a single network or limit the ability of a merchant to direct the routing of debit card payments for processing. changes impacting the financial products and services we offer to our customers: all federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the dfa. as of december 31, 2016, the bank non-interest bearing deposits totaled $6.7 billion, or 22% of total deposits. the company interest expense may increase and net interest margin may decrease if it begins to offer higher rates of interest than are currently offered on demand deposits. stricter capital requirements for bank holding companies: the dfa imposes stringent capital requirements on bank holding companies by, among other things, imposing leverage ratios on holding companies and prohibiting the inclusion of new trust preferred issuances in tier i capital. the dfa also increases regulation of derivatives and hedging transactions, which could limit the ability of people united to enter into, or increase the costs associated with, interest rate and other hedging transactions. mortgage rules promulgated by the cfpb: the cfpb has issued a series of final rules to implement provisions in the dfa related to mortgage origination and mortgage servicing. these rules, which went into effect in january 2014 and which may increase the cost of originating and servicing residential mortgage loans, include: a rule to implement the requirement that creditors make a reasonable, good faith determination of a consumer ability to repay any consumer credit transaction secured by a dwelling and establish certain protections from liability under this requirement for qualified mortgages ; and a rule addressing mortgage servicers obligations to: correct errors asserted by mortgage loan borrowers; provide certain information requested by such borrowers; and provide protections to such borrowers in connection with force-placed insurance. additionally, this final rule addresses servicers obligations to: provide information about mortgage loss mitigation options to delinquent borrowers; establish policies and procedures for providing delinquent borrowers with continuity of contact with servicer personnel capable of performing certain functions; and evaluate borrowers applications for available loss mitigation options. 15 table of contents while it is difficult to fully quantify the increase in our regulatory compliance burden, we do believe that costs associated with regulatory compliance will continue to increase. because certain other provisions of the dfa still require regulatory rulemaking, it is not clear how those new regulations will affect people united. if people united allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings would decrease people united is exposed to the risk that customers will not be able to repay their loans. this risk is inherent in the lending business. there is also the risk that the customer collateral will not be sufficient to cover the balance of their loan, as underlying collateral values fluctuate with market changes. people united records an allowance for loan losses to cover probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio. the allowance for loan losses is established through provisions for loan losses charged to income. losses on loans, including impaired loans, are charged to the allowance for loan losses when all or a portion of a loan is deemed to be uncollectible. recoveries of loans previously charged off are credited to the allowance for loan losses when realized. people united maintains the allowance for loan losses at a level that is deemed to be appropriate to absorb probable losses inherent in the respective loan portfolios, based on a quarterly evaluation of a variety of factors. these factors include, but are not limited to: people united historical loan loss experience and recent trends in that experience; risk ratings assigned by lending personnel to commercial real estate loans, commercial and industrial loans and equipment financing loans, and the results of ongoing reviews of those ratings by people united independent loan review function; an evaluation of delinquent and non-performing loans and related collateral values; the probability of loss in view of geographic and industry concentrations and other portfolio risk characteristics; the present financial condition of borrowers; and current economic conditions. while people united seeks to use the best available information to make these evaluations and, at december 31, 2016, believed that the allowance for loan losses was appropriate to cover probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio, it is possible that borrower defaults could exceed the current estimates for loan losses, which would reduce earnings. in addition, future increases to the allowance for loan losses may be necessary based on changes in economic conditions, results of regulatory examinations, further information obtained regarding known problem loans, increasing charge-offs of existing problem loans, or the identification of additional problem loans and other factors, which would also reduce earnings. see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information concerning people united allowance for loan losses. our goodwill may be determined to be impaired at a future date depending on the results of periodic impairment evaluations people united evaluates goodwill for impairment on an annual basis (or more frequently, if necessary). according to applicable accounting requirements, acceptable valuation methods include present-value measurements based on multiples of earnings or revenues, or similar performance measures. if the quoted market price for people united common stock were to decline significantly, or if it was determined that the carrying amount of our goodwill exceeded its implied fair value, we would be required to write down the asset recorded for goodwill as reflected in the consolidated statements of condition. this, in turn, would result in a charge to earnings and, thus, a reduction in stockholders equity. see notes 1 and 6 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information concerning people united goodwill and the required impairment test. 16 table of contents people united may fail to successfully integrate acquired companies and realize all of the anticipated benefits of an acquisition the ultimate success of an acquisition will depend, in part, on the ability of people united to realize the anticipated benefits from combining the businesses of people united with those of an acquired company. if people united is not able to successfully combine the businesses, the anticipated benefits of a merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. a failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses we depend upon our ability to process, record and monitor a large number of customer transactions on a continuous basis. as customer, public and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions and breakdowns. information security risks for financial institutions, such as ours, have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists and other external parties. as noted above, our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks. our business operations rely on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software and networks to conduct their operations. in addition, to access our products and services, our customers may use electronic devices that are beyond our control systems. although we have information security procedures and controls in place, our technologies, systems, networks and our customers devices may become the target of cyber-attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our customers confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise disrupt our or our customers or other third parties business operations. third parties with whom we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges, clearing houses, financial intermediaries or vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, the size and scale of people united, our plans to continue to implement our internet banking and mobile banking channel strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers when and how they want to be served, our expanded geographic footprint, the outsourcing of some of our business operations and the continued uncertain global economic environment. as a result, cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a focus for us. as threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities. 17 table of contents disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our business and customers, or cyber-attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our products and services could result in customer attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. availability of first lien data with respect to our home equity loans and lines of credit could delay our response to any deterioration in the borrower credit we do not currently have statistics for our entire portfolio of home equity loans and lines of credit with respect to first liens serviced by third parties that have priority over our junior liens, as we did not historically capture that data on our loan servicing systems. as a result, we may therefore be unaware that the loan secured by the first lien is not performing, which could delay our response to an apparent deterioration in the borrower creditworthiness. as of december 31, 2016, full and complete first lien position data was not readily available for 31% of the home equity portfolio which, in turn, represented 2% of our overall loan portfolio at that date. we are actively working with a third-party vendor to obtain the missing first lien information and have, in certain cases, obtained the data through information reported to credit bureaus when the borrower defaults. this data collection effort, however, can be more difficult in cases where more than one mortgage is reported in a borrower credit report and/or there is not a corresponding property address associated with a reported mortgage, in which case we are often unable to associate a specific first lien with our junior lien. see the discussion in management discussion and analysis asset quality portfolio risk elements home equity lending beginning on page 57 for more detail, including steps we are taking to otherwise address this issue. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 73 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk management market risk represents the risk of loss to earnings, capital and the economic values of certain assets and liabilities resulting from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. the only significant market risk exposure for people united at this time is irr, which is a result of the company core business activities of making loans and accepting deposits. 73 table of contents interest rate risk the effective management of irr is essential to achieving the company financial objectives. responsibility for overseeing management of irr resides with alco. the goal of alco is to generate a stable net interest margin over entire interest rate cycles regardless of changes in either short- or long-term interest rates. generating earnings by taking excessive irr is prohibited by the irr limits established by the company board of directors. alco manages irr by using two primary risk measurement techniques: simulation of net interest income and simulation of economic value of equity. these two measurements are complementary and provide both short-term and long-term risk profiles of the company. net interest income at risk simulation is used to measure the sensitivity of net interest income to changes in market rates over a forward twelve-month period. this simulation captures underlying product behaviors, such as asset and liability re-pricing dates, balloon dates, interest rate indices and spreads, rate caps and floors, as well as other behavioral attributes. the simulation of net interest income also requires a number of key assumptions such as: (i) future balance sheet volume and mix assumptions that are management judgments based on estimates and historical experience; (ii) prepayment projections for loans and securities that are projected under each interest rate scenario using internal and external analytics; (iii) new business loan rates that are based on recent new business origination experience; and (iv) deposit pricing assumptions that are based on historical regression models and management judgment. combined, these assumptions can be inherently uncertain, and as a result, actual results may differ from simulation forecasts due to the timing, magnitude and frequency of interest rate changes, future business conditions, as well as unanticipated changes in management strategies. the company uses two sets of standard scenarios to measure net interest income at risk. parallel shock scenarios assume instantaneous parallel movements in the yield curve compared to a flat yield curve scenario. internal policy regarding irr simulations currently specifies that for instantaneous parallel shifts of the yield curve, estimated net interest income at risk for the subsequent one-year period should not decline by more than: 7% for a 100 basis point shift; 10% for a 200 basis point shift; and 15% for a 300 basis point shift. yield curve twist scenarios assume the shape of the curve flattens or steepens instantaneously centered on the 18-month point of the curve, thereby segmenting the yield curve into a short-end and a long-end . current internal policy specifies that for yield curve twist simulations, estimated net interest income at risk for the subsequent one-year period should not decline by more than 7% for a 100 basis point shift and 10% for a 200 basis point shift. the following tables set forth the estimated percent change in the company net interest income at risk over one-year simulation periods beginning december 31, 2016 and 2015. given the interest rate environment at december 31, 2016, simulations for interest rate declines of more than 75 basis points were not modeled for parallel shook scenarios. parallel shock rate change (basis points) estimated percent change in net interest income 2016 2015 +300 10.1 % 9.6 % +200 7.3 6.9 +100 4.0 3.7 -75 (5.0 ) n/a yield curve twist rate change (basis points) estimated percent change in net interest income 2016 2015 short end -75 (2.6 )% n/a % short end +100 1.7 1.8 short end +200 3.3 3.6 long end -100 (3.4 ) (4.0 ) long end +100 2.3 2.0 long end +200 4.3 3.5 74 table of contents the net interest income at risk simulation results indicate that at both december 31, 2016 and 2015, the company is asset sensitive over the twelve-month forecast horizon (i.e. net interest income will increase if market rates rise). this is primarily due to (i) approximately 87% of the company loan portfolio being funded by less rate-sensitive core deposits and (ii) approximately 44% of the company loan portfolio being comprised of prime and one-month libor-based loans. the increase in the company asset sensitivity since december 31, 2015 primarily reflects (i) increases in one-month libor-based loans and core deposits; (ii) fewer loans with in the money floors as both the prime rate and one-month libor rate have risen; and (iii) less reliance on short-term borrowings. the company is more asset sensitive when the long-end rises compared to increases in the short-end due primarily to the limited amount of long-term liabilities funding long-term assets. based on the company irr position at december 31, 2016, an immediate 100 basis point parallel increase in interest rates translates to an approximate $42 million increase in net interest income on an annualized basis. economic value of equity at risk simulation is conducted in tandem with net interest income simulations, to ascertain a longer term view of the company irr position by capturing longer-term re-pricing risk and options risk embedded in the balance sheet. it measures the sensitivity of economic value of equity to changes in interest rates. economic value of equity at risk simulation values only the current balance sheet and does not incorporate the growth assumptions used for income simulations. as with net interest income modeling, this simulation captures product characteristics such as loan resets, re-pricing terms, maturity dates, rate caps and floors. key assumptions include loan prepayment speeds, deposit pricing elasticity and non-maturity deposit attrition rates. these assumptions can have significant impacts on valuation results as the assumptions remain in effect for the entire life of each asset and liability. the company conducts core deposit behavior studies on a periodic basis to support deposit assumptions used in the valuation process. all key assumptions are subject to periodic review. base case economic value of equity at risk is calculated by estimating the net present value of all future cash flows from existing assets and liabilities using current interest rates. the current spot interest rate curve is shocked up and down to generate new spot interest rate curves for parallel rate shock scenarios. these new spot curves are then used to re-calculate economic value of equity at risk for these rate shock scenarios. internal policy currently limits the exposure to a decrease in economic value of equity at risk resulting from instantaneous parallel shifts of the yield curve in the following manner: 7% for a 100 basis point shift; 10% for a 200 basis point shift; and 15% for a 300 basis point shift. the following table sets forth the estimated percent change in the company economic value of equity at risk, assuming various instantaneous parallel shocks in interest rates. given the interest rate environment at december 31, 2016, simulations for interest rate declines of more than 75 basis points were not modeled. parallel shock rate change (basis points) estimated percent change in economic value of equity 2016 2015 +300 (7.7 )% (6.4 )% +200 (3.1 ) (2.0 ) +100 (0.1 ) 0.5 -75 (2.8 ) n/a the company economic value of equity at risk profile indicates that at december 31, 2016, the company economic value of equity is moderately liability sensitive in a rising rate environment. the slight increase since december 31, 2015 reflects increases in the balances and duration of mortgage-backed securities and the residential loan portfolio, as well as a decrease in the weighted average life of non-maturity deposits driven, in part, by higher long-term interest rates. 75 table of contents people united irr position at december 31, 2016, as set forth in the net interest income at risk and economic value of equity at risk tables above, reflects an asset sensitive net interest income at risk position and a moderately liability sensitive economic value of equity position. from a net interest income perspective, asset sensitivity over the next 12 months is primarily attributable to the effect of the substantial prime and libor-based loan balances that are funded mainly by less rate-sensitive deposits. from an economic value of equity perspective, in a rising rate environment, the company assets are more price sensitive than its liabilities due to slightly longer asset duration, which serves to create a moderately liability sensitive risk position. given the uncertainty of the magnitude, timing and direction of future interest rate movements and the shape of the yield curve, actual results may vary from those predicted by the company models. management has established procedures to be followed in the event of an anticipated or actual breach in policy limits. as of december 31, 2016, there were no breaches of the company internal policy limits with respect to either irr measure. management utilizes both interest rate measures in the normal course of measuring and managing irr and believes that each measure is valuable in understanding the company irr position. people united uses derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps, as components of its market risk management (principally to manage irr). certain other derivatives are entered into in connection with transactions with commercial customers. derivatives are not used for speculative purposes. at december 31, 2016, people united used interest rate swaps to manage irr associated with certain interest-bearing liabilities. people united has entered into a pay fixed/receive floating interest rate swap to hedge the libor-based floating interest rate payments on the company $125 million subordinated notes (such payments began in february 2012). these notes had a fixed interest rate of 5.80% until february 2012, at which time the interest rate converted to three-month libor plus 68.5 basis points. people united has agreed with the swap counterparty to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed-rate (1.99%) and floating-rate interest amounts calculated based on a notional amount of $125 million. the floating-rate interest amounts received under the swap are calculated using the same floating-rate paid on these notes. the swap effectively converts the variable-rate subordinated notes to a fixed-rate liability and consequently reduces people united exposure to increases in interest rates. this swap is accounted for as a cash flow hedge. on february 14, 2017, the company repaid the $125 million 5.80% fixed-rate/floating-rate subordinated notes. concurrent with the repayment, the interest rate swap designated to these subordinated notes matured. the bank has entered into a pay floating/receive fixed interest rate swap to hedge the change in fair value due to changes in interest rates of the bank $400 million subordinated notes. the bank has agreed with the swap counterparty to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed-rate and floating-rate interest amounts calculated based on a notional amount of $375 million. the fixed-rate interest payments received on the swap will essentially offset the fixed-rate interest payments made on these notes, notwithstanding the notional difference between these notes and the swap. the floating-rate interest amounts paid under the swap are calculated based on three-month libor plus 126.5 basis points. the swap effectively converts the fixed-rate subordinated notes to a floating-rate liability. this swap is accounted for as a fair value hedge. people united has written guidelines that have been approved by its board of directors and alco governing the use of derivative financial instruments, including approved counterparties and credit limits. credit risk associated with these instruments is controlled and monitored through policies and procedures governing collateral management and credit approval. 76 table of contents by using derivatives, people united is exposed to credit risk to the extent that counterparties to the derivative contracts do not perform as required. should a counterparty fail to perform under the terms of a derivative contract, the company counterparty credit risk is equal to the amount reported as a derivative asset in the consolidated statements of condition. in accordance with the company balance sheet offsetting policy (see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements), amounts reported as derivative assets represent derivative contracts in a gain position, without consideration for derivative contracts in a loss position with the same counterparty (to the extent subject to master netting arrangements) and posted collateral. people united seeks to minimize counterparty credit risk through credit approvals, limits, monitoring procedures, execution of master netting arrangements and obtaining collateral, where appropriate. counterparties to people united derivatives include major financial institutions and exchanges that undergo comprehensive and periodic internal credit analysis as well as maintain investment grade credit ratings from the major credit rating agencies. as such, management believes the risk of incurring credit losses on derivative contracts with those counterparties is remote and losses, if any, would be immaterial. certain of people united derivative contracts contain provisions establishing collateral requirements (subject to minimum collateral posting thresholds) based on the company external credit rating. if the company senior unsecured debt rating were to fall below the level generally recognized as investment grade, the counterparties to such derivative contracts could require additional collateral on those derivative transactions in a net liability position (after considering the effect of master netting arrangements and posted collateral). the aggregate fair value of derivative instruments with such credit-related contingent features that were in a net liability position at december 31, 2016 was $7.5 million, for which people united had posted collateral of $5.4 million in the normal course of business. if the company senior unsecured debt rating had fallen below investment grade as of that date, $2.1 million in additional collateral would have been required. foreign currency risk foreign exchange contracts are commitments to buy or sell foreign currency on a future date at a contractual price. people united uses these instruments on a limited basis to eliminate its exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates on certain of its commercial loans that are denominated in foreign currencies. gains and losses on foreign exchange contracts substantially offset the translation gains and losses on the related loans. derivative financial instruments the following table summarizes certain information concerning derivative financial instruments utilized by people united in its management of irr and foreign currency risk: interest rate swaps foreign exchange contracts as of december 31, 2016 (dollars in millions) cash flow hedge fair value hedge notional principal amounts $ 125.0 $ 375.0 $ 101.2 weighted average interest rates: pay floating (receive fixed) n/a libor +1.265% (4.00% ) n/a pay fixed (receive floating) 1.99% (libor + 0.685% ) n/a n/a weighted average remaining term to maturity (in months) 1 91 1 fair value: recognized as an asset $ $ 13.6 $ 0.6 recognized as a liability 0.1 0.3 77 table of contents people united enters into interest rate swaps with certain of its commercial customers. in order to minimize its risk, these customer derivatives (pay floating/receive fixed) have been offset with essentially matching interest rate swaps with people united institutional counterparties (pay fixed/receive floating). hedge accounting has not been applied for these derivatives. accordingly, changes in the fair value of all such interest rate swaps are recognized in current earnings. the following table summarizes certain information concerning these interest rate swaps: interest rate swaps as of december 31, 2016 (dollars in millions) commercial customers institutional counterparties notional principal amounts $5,612.2 $5,620.2 weighted average interest rates: pay floating (receive fixed) 0.90% (1.89% ) pay fixed (receive floating) 1.78% (0.90% ) weighted average remaining term to maturity (in months) 83 83 fair value: recognized as an asset $ 93.9 $ 65.6 recognized as a liability 46.9 74.0 see notes 21 and 22 to the consolidated financial statements for further information relating to derivatives.risk factors 11 risk factors changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition people united makes most of its earnings based on the difference between interest it earns compared to interest it pays. this difference is called the interest spread. people united earns interest on loans and to a much lesser extent on securities and short-term investments. these are called interest-earning assets. people united pays interest on some forms of deposits and on funds it borrows from other sources. these are called interest-bearing liabilities. people united interest spread can change depending on when interest rates earned on interest-earning assets change, compared to when interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities change. some rate changes occur while these assets or liabilities are still on people united books. other rate changes occur when these assets or liabilities mature and are replaced by new interest-earning assets or interest-bearing liabilities at different rates. it may be difficult to replace interest-earning assets quickly, since customers may not want to borrow money when interest rates are high, or people united may not be able to make loans that meet its lending standards. people united interest spread may also change based on the mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. people united interest spread may be lower if the timing of interest rate changes is different for its interest-earning assets compared to its interest-bearing liabilities. for example, if interest rates go down, people united could earn less on some of its interest-earning assets while it is still obligated to pay higher rates on some of its interest-bearing liabilities. on the other hand, if interest rates go up, people united might have to pay more on some of its interest-bearing liabilities while it continues to receive lower rates on some of its interest-earning assets. people united manages this risk using many different techniques. if unsuccessful in managing this risk, people united may be less profitable. changes in our asset quality could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition asset quality measures the performance of a borrower in repaying a loan, with interest, on time. while we believe we have benefited from relatively stable asset quality, there are elements of our loan portfolio that inherently present greater credit risk, such as interest-only residential mortgage loans, home equity loans and lines with incomplete first lien data, and commercial real estate loans. each of these portfolio risk elements, where potentially material in the context of our overall loan portfolio, are discussed in greater detail within management discussion and analysis asset quality beginning on page 56. while the company believes that it manages asset quality through prudent underwriting practices and collection operations, it is possible that our asset quality could deteriorate, depending upon economic conditions and other factors. the success of our stop &amp; shop branches depends on the success of the stop &amp; shop brand one element of our strategy is to focus on increasing deposits by providing a wide range of convenient services to our customers. an integral component of this strategy is the bank supermarket banking initiative, pursuant to which, as of december 31, 2017, the bank has established 147 full-service stop &amp; shop branches throughout connecticut and southeastern new york, most of which are in close proximity to our traditional branches, which provide customers with the convenience of seven-day-a-week banking. at december 31, 2017, 36% of the bank branches were located in stop &amp; shop supermarkets and 14% of our total deposits at that date were held in stop &amp; shop branches. the bank currently has exclusive branching rights in stop &amp; shop supermarkets in the state of connecticut and certain counties in the state of new york, in the form of licensing agreements between the stop &amp; shop supermarket company and the bank, which provides for the leasing of space to the bank within stop &amp; shop supermarkets for branch use. the bank has the exclusive right to branch in these supermarkets until 2027, provided that the bank does not default on its obligations under the licensing agreement. 11 table of contents under the terms of the licensing agreements, the bank has the obligation to open branches in new stop &amp; shop locations, even if stop &amp; shop market share declines or the value of the stop &amp; shop brand is diminished. the licensing agreements do not stipulate the number of branch openings per year but, rather, apply only to those new stop &amp; shop locations that meet or exceed specified thresholds as to size (square footage) and/or customer traffic. based on our experience, we would expect the application of these thresholds to result in the opening of approximately 3-5 new branches per year in stop &amp; shop locations. stop &amp; shop is a leading grocery store in connecticut. the success of the bank supermarket branches is dependent, in part, on the success of the stop &amp; shop supermarkets in which they are located. a drop in stop &amp; shop market share, a decrease in the number of stop &amp; shop locations or customers, or a decline in the overall quality of stop &amp; shop supermarkets could result in decreased business for the stop &amp; shop branches, in the form of fewer loan originations, lower deposit generation and fewer overall branch transactions, and could influence market perception of the bank stop &amp; shop supermarket branches as convenient banking locations. we depend on our executive officers and key personnel to continue implementing our long-term business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services we believe that our continued growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management team. the competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry can be intense, and the loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. our business is affected by the international, national, regional and local economies in which we operate changes in international, national, regional and local economic conditions affect our business. if economic conditions change significantly or quickly, our business operations could suffer, and we could become weaker financially as a result. during certain economic cycles, the housing and real estate markets, as well as the broader economy, may experience declines, both on a national and local level. housing market conditions in the new england and new york metro regions, where much of our lending activity occurs, may be adversely impacted, leading to a reduced level of sales, an increased inventory of houses on the market, a decline in house prices and an increase in the length of time houses remain on the market. no assurance can be given that these economic conditions will not occur or that such conditions will not result in a decrease in our interest income, an increase in our non-performing loans, an increase in our provision for loan losses or an adverse impact on our loan losses. significant volatility in the financial and capital markets during this time led to credit and liquidity concerns, a recessionary economic environment and, in turn, weakness within the commercial sector. our loan portfolio is not immune to potential negative consequences arising as a result of general economic weakness and, in particular, a prolonged downturn in the housing market on a national scale. decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for loans. in addition, adverse changes in the economy could have a negative effect on the ability of borrowers to make scheduled loan payments, which would likely have an adverse impact on earnings. further, an increase in loan delinquencies may serve to decrease interest income and adversely impact loan loss experience, resulting in an increased provision and allowance for loan losses. international economic uncertainty continues to have an impact on the u.s. financial markets, potentially suppressing stock prices and adding to volatility. our foreign country exposure, which is defined as the aggregation of exposure maintained with financial institutions, companies or individuals in a given country outside of the u.s., is minimal and indirect, with the majority of such exposure comprised of corporate debt securities. our sovereign credit exposure is comprised of an immaterial amount of government bonds issued by a single non-european sovereign. 12 table of contents the geographic concentration of our loan portfolio could make us vulnerable to a downturn in the economies in which we operate at december 31, 2017, 24%, 23% and 17% of the company loans by outstanding principal amount were to customers located within connecticut, new york and massachusetts, respectively. loans to people and businesses located in the new england states as a group represented 54% of total loans at that date. how well our business performs depends very much on the health of these regional and local economies. we could experience losses in our real estate-related loan portfolios if the prices for housing and other kinds of real estate decreased significantly in new england or southeastern new york. if the economic environment deteriorates, or negative trends emerge with respect to the financial markets, the new england and southeastern new york economies could suffer more than the national economy. this would be especially likely in fairfield county, connecticut (where the company is headquartered) as well as the suburban communities of new york city and boston as a result of the significant number of people living in these areas who also work in the financial services industry. in addition, our ability to continue to originate real estate loans may be impaired by adverse changes in the local and regional economic conditions in these real estate markets. decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for our loans. adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. in addition, if poor economic conditions result in decreased demand for real estate loans, our profits may decrease because our alternative investments may earn less income for us than real estate loans. our equipment financing business, which operates nationally, could be negatively affected by adverse changes in the national economy, even if those changes have no significant effect on the local and regional economies in which our other businesses operate. no assurance can be given that such conditions will not occur or that such conditions will not result in a decrease in our interest income, an increase in our non-performing loans, an increase in our provision for loan losses or an adverse impact on our loan losses. in response to competitive pressures, our costs could increase if we were required to increase our service and convenience levels or our margins could decrease if we were required to increase deposit rates or lower interest rates on loans people united faces significant competition for deposits and loans. in deciding where to deposit their money, many people look first at the interest rate they will earn. they also might consider whether a bank offers other kinds of services they might need and, if they have been a customer of a bank before, what their experience was like. people also like convenience, so the number of offices and banking hours may be important. some people also prefer the availability of on-line services. people united competes with other banks, credit unions, brokerage firms and money market funds for deposits. some people may decide to buy bonds or similar kinds of investments issued by companies or by federal, state and local governments and agencies, instead of opening a deposit account. in making decisions about loans, many people consider the interest rate they will have to pay. they also consider any extra fees they might have to pay in order to get the loan. many business loans are more complicated because there may not be a standard type of loan that meets all of the customer needs. business borrowers consider many different factors that are not all financial in nature, including the type and amount of security the lender wants and other terms of the loan that do not involve the interest rate. 13 table of contents people united competes with other banks, credit unions, credit card issuers, finance companies, mortgage lenders and mortgage brokers for loans. insurance companies also compete with people united for some types of commercial loans. several of people united competitors have branches in the same market area as it does, some of which are much larger than it is. the new england region, including connecticut, which is people united predominant market, and specifically fairfield county, where people united is headquartered, is an attractive banking market. as locally-based banks continue to be acquired by large regional and national companies, there are not as many bank competitors in our market as there used to be, but the remaining ones are usually larger and have more resources than the banks they acquired. people united also has competition from outside its own market area. a bank that does not have any branches in our primary markets can still have customers there by providing banking services on-line. it costs money to set up and maintain a branch system. banks that do not spend as much money as people united does on branches might be more profitable than it is, even if they pay higher interest on deposits and charge lower interest on loans. changes in federal and state regulation could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition the banking business is heavily regulated by the federal and state governments. banking laws and rules are for the most part intended to protect depositors, not stockholders. banking laws and rules can change at any time. the government agencies responsible for supervising people united businesses can also change the way they interpret these laws and rules, even if the rules themselves do not change. we need to make sure that our business activities comply with any changes in these rules or the interpretation of the rules. we might be less profitable if we have to change the way we conduct business in order to comply. our business might suffer in other ways as well. changes in state and federal tax laws or the accounting standards we are required to follow can make our business less profitable. changes in the government economic and monetary policies may hurt our ability to compete for deposits and loans. changes in these policies can also make it more expensive for us to do business. the government agencies responsible for supervising our business can take drastic action if they think we are not conducting business safely or are too weak financially. they can force people united to hold additional capital, pay higher deposit insurance premiums, stop paying dividends, stop making certain kinds of loans or stop offering certain kinds of deposits. if the agencies took any of these steps or other similar steps, it would probably make our business less profitable. enactment of the dfa has resulted in significant changes in the financial regulatory landscape, many of which affect us. among the more significant provisions of the dfa, as well as their actual or anticipated impact, if quantifiable, are: changes to the regulatory landscape, including: creation of the cfpb, which is empowered to promulgate new consumer protection regulations and revise existing regulations in many areas of consumer protection, and exercise exclusive authority over our consumer compliance examinations; and restrictions on the ability of federal bank regulatory authorities to preempt the application of state consumer protection laws and regulations. 14 table of contents limitations on the amount of interchange fees that an issuer of debit cards may charge or receive: the dfa limits the amount of interchange fee that an issuer of debit cards may charge or receive to an amount that is reasonable and proportional to the cost of the transaction. the dfa further provides that a debit card issuer may not restrict the number of payment card networks on which a debit card transaction may be processed to a single network or limit the ability of a merchant to direct the routing of debit card payments for processing. changes impacting the financial products and services we offer to our customers: all federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the dfa. as of december 31, 2017, the bank non-interest bearing deposits totaled $8.0 billion, or 24% of total deposits. the company interest expense may increase and net interest margin may decrease if it begins to offer higher rates of interest than are currently offered on demand deposits. stricter capital requirements for bank holding companies: the dfa imposes stringent capital requirements on bank holding companies by, among other things, imposing leverage ratios on holding companies and prohibiting the inclusion of new trust preferred issuances in tier i capital. the dfa also increases regulation of derivatives and hedging transactions, which could limit the ability of people united to enter into, or increase the costs associated with, interest rate and other hedging transactions. mortgage rules promulgated by the cfpb: the cfpb has issued a series of final rules to implement provisions in the dfa related to mortgage origination and mortgage servicing. these rules, which went into effect in january 2014 and which may increase the cost of originating and servicing residential mortgage loans, include: a rule to implement the requirement that creditors make a reasonable, good faith determination of a consumer ability to repay any consumer credit transaction secured by a dwelling and establish certain protections from liability under this requirement for qualified mortgages ; and a rule addressing mortgage servicers obligations to: correct errors asserted by mortgage loan borrowers; provide certain information requested by such borrowers; and provide protections to such borrowers in connection with force-placed insurance. additionally, this final rule addresses servicers obligations to: provide information about mortgage loss mitigation options to delinquent borrowers; establish policies and procedures for providing delinquent borrowers with continuity of contact with servicer personnel capable of performing certain functions; and evaluate borrowers applications for available loss mitigation options. while it is difficult to fully quantify the increase in our regulatory compliance burden, we do believe that costs associated with regulatory compliance will continue to increase. because certain other provisions of the dfa still require regulatory rulemaking, it is not clear how those new regulations will affect people united. if people united allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings would decrease people united is exposed to the risk that customers will not be able to repay their loans. this risk is inherent in the lending business. there is also the risk that the customer collateral will not be sufficient to cover the balance of their loan, as underlying collateral values fluctuate with market changes. people united records an allowance for loan losses to cover probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio. the allowance for loan losses is established through provisions for loan losses charged to income. losses on loans, including impaired loans, are charged to the allowance for loan losses when all or a portion of a loan is deemed to be uncollectible. recoveries of loans previously charged off are credited to the allowance for loan losses when realized. 15 table of contents people united maintains the allowance for loan losses at a level that is deemed to be appropriate to absorb probable losses inherent in the respective loan portfolios, based on a quarterly evaluation of a variety of factors. these factors include, but are not limited to: people united historical loan loss experience and recent trends in that experience; risk ratings assigned by lending personnel to commercial real estate loans, commercial and industrial loans and equipment financing loans, and the results of ongoing reviews of those ratings by people united independent loan review function; an evaluation of delinquent and non-performing loans and related collateral values; the probability of loss in view of geographic and industry concentrations and other portfolio risk characteristics; the present financial condition of borrowers; and current economic conditions. while people united seeks to use the best available information to make these evaluations and, at december 31, 2017, believed that the allowance for loan losses was appropriate to cover probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio, it is possible that borrower defaults could exceed the current estimates for loan losses, which would reduce earnings. in addition, future increases to the allowance for loan losses may be necessary based on changes in economic conditions, results of regulatory examinations, further information obtained regarding known problem loans, increasing charge-offs of existing problem loans, or the identification of additional problem loans and other factors, which would also reduce earnings. see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information concerning people united allowance for loan losses. our goodwill may be determined to be impaired at a future date depending on the results of periodic impairment evaluations people united evaluates goodwill for impairment on an annual basis (or more frequently, if necessary). according to applicable accounting requirements, acceptable valuation methods include present-value measurements based on multiples of earnings or revenues, or similar performance measures. if the quoted market price for people united common stock were to decline significantly, or if it was determined that the carrying amount of our goodwill exceeded its implied fair value, we would be required to write down the asset recorded for goodwill as reflected in the consolidated statements of condition. this, in turn, would result in a charge to earnings and, thus, a reduction in stockholders equity. see notes 1 and 6 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information concerning people united goodwill and the required impairment test. people united may fail to successfully integrate acquired companies and realize all of the anticipated benefits of an acquisition the ultimate success of an acquisition will depend, in part, on the ability of people united to realize the anticipated benefits from combining the businesses of people united with those of an acquired company. if people united is not able to successfully combine the businesses, the anticipated benefits of a merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. a failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third-party vendors and other service providers, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses in the ordinary course of business, we rely on our ability to securely process, record, monitor and store data associated with a large number of customer transactions on a continuous basis. in doing so, our business relies on various digital technologies, computer and email systems, software and networks to conduct operations, and for which we have information security procedures and controls in place. still, as customer, public and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions, breakdowns and security breaches. 16 table of contents security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents may include, but are not limited to, attempts to access information, including customer and company information, malicious code, computer viruses and denial of service attacks that could result in unauthorized access, misuse, loss or destruction of data (including confidential customer or proprietary information), account takeovers, unavailability of service or other events. these types of threats may derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of external or internal parties, or may result from accidental technological failure. further sources of operational and information security risk to us include (i) our customers, who, when accessing our products and services, may use computers or mobile devices that are beyond our security control systems and (ii) third parties with whom we do business or that facilitate our business activities (including exchanges, clearing houses, financial intermediaries or vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations) should they suffer breakdowns, failures or capacity constraints of their own systems. in recent years, information security risks for financial institutions, such as ours, have increased due, in part, to (i) the proliferation of new technologies, including internet and mobile banking capabilities, to conduct financial transactions and (ii) the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, hostile foreign governments, activists and other external parties. there have been several instances involving financial services and consumer-based companies reporting unauthorized access to, and disclosure of, client or customer information or the destruction or theft of corporate data. there have also been highly-publicized cases where hackers have requested ransom payments in exchange for not disclosing customer information. while we have not, to date, experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things: (i) the constantly evolving nature of these threats; (ii) the size and scale of people united; (iii) our plans to continue implementing our internet and mobile banking strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions in order to serve our customers when and how they want to be served; (iv) our expanded geographic footprint; (v) the outsourcing of some of our business operations; and (vi) the continued uncertain global economic environment. as a result, cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a focus for us. as threats continue to increase in number, intensity and sophistication, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities. disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our business and customers, or cyber-attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our products and services could result in customer attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational harm, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. availability of first lien data with respect to our home equity loans and lines of credit could delay our response to any deterioration in the borrower credit we do not currently have statistics for our entire portfolio of home equity loans and lines of credit with respect to first liens serviced by third parties that have priority over our junior liens, as we did not historically capture that data on our loan servicing systems. as a result, we may therefore be unaware that the loan secured by the first lien is not performing, which could delay our response to an apparent deterioration in the borrower creditworthiness. as of december 31, 2017, full and complete first lien position data was not readily available for 28% of the home equity portfolio which, in turn, represented 2% of our overall loan portfolio at that date. 17 table of contents we are actively working with a third-party vendor to obtain the missing first lien information and have, in certain cases, obtained the data through information reported to credit bureaus when the borrower defaults. this data collection effort, however, can be more difficult in cases where more than one mortgage is reported in a borrower credit report and/or there is not a corresponding property address associated with a reported mortgage, in which case we are often unable to associate a specific first lien with our junior lien. see the discussion in management discussion and analysis asset quality portfolio risk elements home equity lending beginning on page 58 for more detail, including steps we are taking to otherwise address this issue. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 75 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk management market risk represents the risk of loss to earnings, capital and the economic values of certain assets and liabilities resulting from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. the only significant market risk exposure for people united at this time is irr, which is a result of the company core business activities of making loans and accepting deposits. 75 table of contents interest rate risk the effective management of irr is essential to achieving the company financial objectives. responsibility for overseeing management of irr resides with alco. the goal of alco is to generate a stable net interest margin over entire interest rate cycles regardless of changes in either short- or long-term interest rates. generating earnings by taking excessive irr is prohibited by the irr limits established by the company board of directors. alco manages irr by using two primary risk measurement techniques: simulation of net interest income and simulation of economic value of equity. these two measurements are complementary and provide both short-term and long-term risk profiles of the company. net interest income at risk simulation is used to measure the sensitivity of net interest income to changes in market rates over a forward twelve-month period. this simulation captures underlying product behaviors, such as asset and liability re-pricing dates, balloon dates, interest rate indices and spreads, rate caps and floors, as well as other behavioral attributes. the simulation of net interest income also requires a number of key assumptions such as: (i) future balance sheet volume and mix assumptions that are management judgments based on estimates and historical experience; (ii) prepayment projections for loans and securities that are projected under each interest rate scenario using internal and external analytics; (iii) new business loan spreads that are based on recent new business origination experience; and (iv) deposit pricing assumptions that are based on historical regression models and management judgment. combined, these assumptions can be inherently uncertain, and as a result, actual results may differ from simulation forecasts due to the timing, magnitude and frequency of interest rate changes, future business conditions, as well as unanticipated changes in management strategies. the company uses two sets of standard scenarios to measure net interest income at risk. parallel shock scenarios assume instantaneous parallel movements in the yield curve compared to a flat yield curve scenario. the following tables set forth the estimated percent change in the company net interest income at risk over one-year simulation periods beginning december 31, 2017 and 2016. given the interest rate environment at those dates, simulations for interest rate declines of more than 100 basis points were not modeled. parallel shock rate change (basis points) estimated percent change in net interest income 2017 2016 +300 9.3 % 10.1 % +200 6.5 7.3 +100 3.4 4.0 -100 (4.9 ) n/a yield curve twist rate change (basis points) estimated percent change in net interest income 2017 2016 short end -100 (2.5 )% n/a short end +100 1.7 1.7 % short end +200 3.1 3.3 long end -100 (2.3 ) (3.4 ) long end +100 1.8 2.3 long end +200 4.2 4.3 the net interest income at risk simulation results indicate that at both december 31, 2017 and 2016, the company is asset sensitive over the twelve-month forecast horizon (i.e. net interest income will increase if market rates rise). this is primarily due to (i) approximately 88% of the company loan portfolio being funded by less rate-sensitive core deposits and (ii) approximately 43% of the company loan portfolio being comprised of prime rate and one-month libor-based loans. 76 table of contents the decrease in the company asset sensitivity since december 31, 2016, primarily reflects (i) the addition of leaf fixed-rate portfolio in august 2017 and (ii) securities purchases, which were partially offset by the benefit from an increase in core deposit balances. the acquisition of suffolk in april 2017 did not have a material impact on the company net interest income at risk position. based on the company irr position at december 31, 2017, an immediate 100 basis point parallel increase in interest rates translates to an approximate $43 million increase in net interest income on an annualized basis. economic value of equity at risk simulation is conducted in tandem with net interest income simulations, to ascertain a longer term view of the company irr position by capturing longer-term re-pricing risk and options risk embedded in the balance sheet. it measures the sensitivity of economic value of equity to changes in interest rates. economic value of equity at risk simulation values only the current balance sheet and does not incorporate the growth assumptions used for income simulations. as with net interest income modeling, this simulation captures product characteristics such as loan resets, re-pricing terms, maturity dates, rate caps and floors. key assumptions include loan prepayment speeds, deposit pricing elasticity and non-maturity deposit attrition rates. these assumptions can have significant impacts on valuation results as the assumptions remain in effect for the entire life of each asset and liability. the company conducts core deposit behavior studies on a periodic basis to support deposit assumptions used in the valuation process. all key assumptions are subject to periodic review. base case economic value of equity at risk is calculated by estimating the net present value of all future cash flows from existing assets and liabilities using current interest rates. the current spot interest rate curve is shocked up and down to generate new spot interest rate curves for parallel rate shock scenarios. these new spot curves are then used to re-calculate economic value of equity at risk for these rate shock scenarios. the following table sets forth the estimated percent change in the company economic value of equity at risk, assuming various instantaneous parallel shocks in interest rates. given the interest rate environment at both december 31, 2017 and 2016, simulations for interest rate declines of more than 100 basis points were not modeled. parallel shock rate change (basis points) estimated percent change in economic value of equity 2017 2016 +300 (10.5 )% (7.7 )% +200 (5.4 ) (3.1 ) +100 (1.4 ) (0.1 ) -100 (2.9 ) n/a the company economic value of equity at risk profile indicates that at december 31, 2017, the company economic value of equity is liability sensitive in a rising rate environment. the increase in liability sensitivity since december 31, 2016 primarily reflects: (i) an increase in the residential mortgage loan portfolio; (ii) extending asset duration resulting from continued purchases of mortgage-backed and state and municipal securities; (iii) the acquisition of leaf fixed-rate portfolio; and (iv) a decrease in the modeled weighted average life of non-maturity deposits resulting from higher interest rates. the suffolk acquisition did not have a material impact to the company economic value of equity at risk position. people united irr position at december 31, 2017, as set forth in the net interest income at risk and economic value of equity at risk tables above, reflects an asset sensitive net interest income at risk position and a liability sensitive economic value of equity position. from a net interest income perspective, asset sensitivity over the next 12 months is primarily attributable to the effect of the substantial prime and libor-based loan balances that are funded mainly by less rate-sensitive deposits. from an economic value of equity perspective, in a rising rate environment, the company assets are more price sensitive than its liabilities due to slightly longer asset duration, which serves to create a liability sensitive risk position. given the uncertainty of the magnitude, timing and direction of future interest rate movements and the shape of the yield curve, actual results may vary from those predicted by the company models. 77 table of contents management has established procedures to be followed in the event of an anticipated or actual breach in policy limits. as of december 31, 2017, there were no breaches of the company internal policy limits with respect to either irr measure. management utilizes both interest rate measures in the normal course of measuring and managing irr and believes that each measure is valuable in understanding the company irr position. people united uses derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps, as components of its market risk management (principally to manage irr). certain other derivatives are entered into in connection with transactions with commercial customers. derivatives are not used for speculative purposes. at december 31, 2017, people united used interest rate swaps to manage irr associated with certain interest-bearing assets and interest-bearing liabilities. the bank has entered into pay floating/receive fixed interest rate swaps to reduce its irr exposure to the variability in interest cash flows on certain floating-rate commercial loans. the bank has agreed with the swap counterparties to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed-rate and floating-rate interest amounts calculated based on notional amounts totaling $210 million. the floating-rate interest payments made under the swaps are calculated using the same floating rate received on the commercial loans. the swaps effectively convert the floating-rate one-month libor interest payments received on the commercial loans to a fixed rate and consequently reduce the bank exposure to variability in short-term interest rates. these swaps are accounted for as cash flow hedges. the bank has entered into a pay floating/receive fixed interest rate swap to hedge the change in fair value due to changes in interest rates of the bank $400 million subordinated notes. the bank has agreed with the swap counterparty to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed-rate and floating-rate interest amounts calculated based on a notional amount of $375 million. the fixed-rate interest payments received on the swap will essentially offset the fixed-rate interest payments made on these notes, notwithstanding the notional difference between these notes and the swap. the floating-rate interest amounts paid under the swap are calculated based on three-month libor plus 126.5 basis points. the swap effectively converts the fixed-rate subordinated notes to a floating-rate liability. this swap is accounted for as a fair value hedge. people united has written guidelines that have been approved by its board of directors and alco governing the use of derivative financial instruments, including approved counterparties and credit limits. credit risk associated with these instruments is controlled and monitored through policies and procedures governing collateral management and credit approval. by using derivatives, people united is exposed to credit risk to the extent that counterparties to the derivative contracts do not perform as required. should a counterparty fail to perform under the terms of a derivative contract, the company counterparty credit risk is equal to the amount reported as a derivative asset in the consolidated statements of condition. in accordance with the company balance sheet offsetting policy (see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements), amounts reported as derivative assets represent derivative contracts in a gain position, without consideration for derivative contracts in a loss position with the same counterparty (to the extent subject to master netting arrangements) and posted collateral. people united seeks to minimize counterparty credit risk through credit approvals, limits, monitoring procedures, execution of master netting arrangements and obtaining collateral, where appropriate. counterparties to people united derivatives include major financial institutions and exchanges that undergo comprehensive and periodic internal credit analysis as well as maintain investment grade credit ratings from the major credit rating agencies. as such, management believes the risk of incurring credit losses on derivative contracts with those counterparties is remote and losses, if any, would be immaterial. 78 table of contents certain of people united derivative contracts contain provisions establishing collateral requirements (subject to minimum collateral posting thresholds) based on the company external credit rating. if the company senior unsecured debt rating were to fall below the level generally recognized as investment grade, the counterparties to such derivative contracts could require additional collateral on those derivative transactions in a net liability position (after considering the effect of master netting arrangements and posted collateral). there were no derivative instruments with such credit-related contingent features in a net liability position at december 31, 2017. foreign currency risk foreign exchange contracts are commitments to buy or sell foreign currency on a future date at a contractual price. people united uses these instruments on a limited basis to (i) eliminate its exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates on certain of its commercial loans that are denominated in foreign currencies and (ii) provide foreign exchange contracts on behalf of commercial customers within credit exposure limits. gains and losses on foreign exchange contracts substantially offset the translation gains and losses on the related loans. derivative financial instruments the following table summarizes certain information concerning derivative financial instruments utilized by people united in its management of irr and foreign currency risk: interest rate swaps foreign exchange contracts as of december 31, 2017 (dollars in millions) cash flow hedge fair value hedge notional principal amounts $210.0 $375.0 $ 46.5 weighted average interest rates: pay floating (receive fixed) 1.36% (1.72%) libor +1.265% (4.00%) n/a weighted average remaining term to maturity (in months) 34 79 1 fair value: recognized as an asset $ $ $ 0.1 recognized as a liability 0.4 people united enters into interest rate swaps and caps with certain of its commercial customers. in order to minimize its risk, these customer interest rate swaps (pay floating/receive fixed) and caps have been offset with essentially matching interest rate swaps (pay fixed/receive floating) and caps with people united institutional counterparties. hedge accounting has not been applied for these derivatives. accordingly, changes in the fair value of all such interest rate swaps and caps are recognized in current earnings. the following table summarizes certain information concerning these interest rate swaps and caps: interest rate swaps interest rate caps as of december 31, 2017 (dollars in millions) commercial customers institutional counterparties commercial customers institutional counterparties notional principal amounts $5,769.1 $5,775.9 $ 649.2 $ 649.2 weighted average interest rates: pay floating (receive fixed) 1.40% (2.19%) n/a n/a pay fixed (receive floating) 2.06% (1.40%) n/a n/a weighted average strike rate n/a n/a 0.11 % 0.11 % weighted average remaining term to maturity (in months) 86 86 15 15 fair value: recognized as an asset $64.7 $10.1 $ $2.8 recognized as a liability 61.2 23.7 2.8 see notes 21 and 22 to the consolidated financial statements for further information relating to derivatives. 79 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition people united makes most of its earnings based on the difference between interest it earns compared to interest it pays. this difference is called the interest spread. people united earns interest on loans and to a much lesser extent on securities and short-term investments. these are called interest-earning assets. people united pays interest on some forms of deposits and on funds it borrows from other sources. these are called interest-bearing liabilities. people united interest spread can change depending on when interest rates earned on interest-earning assets change, compared to when interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities change. some rate changes occur while these assets or liabilities are still on people united books. other rate changes occur when these assets or liabilities mature and are replaced by new interest-earning assets or interest-bearing liabilities at different rates. it may be difficult to replace interest-earning assets quickly, since customers may not want to borrow money when interest rates are high, or people united may not be able to make loans that meet its lending standards. people united interest spread may also change based on the mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. people united interest spread may be lower if the timing of interest rate changes is different for its interest-earning assets compared to its interest-bearing liabilities. for example, if interest rates go down, people united could earn less on some of its interest-earning assets while it is still obligated to pay higher rates on some of its interest-bearing liabilities. on the other hand, if interest rates go up, people united might have to pay more on some of its interest-bearing liabilities while it continues to receive lower rates on some of its interest-earning assets. people united manages this risk using many different techniques. if unsuccessful in managing this risk, people united may be less profitable. changes in our asset quality could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition asset quality measures the performance of a borrower in repaying a loan, with interest, on time. while we believe we have benefited from relatively stable asset quality, there are elements of our loan portfolio that inherently present greater credit risk, such as interest-only residential mortgage loans, home equity loans and lines with incomplete first lien data, and commercial real estate loans. each of these portfolio risk elements, where potentially material in the context of our overall loan portfolio, are discussed in greater detail within management discussion and analysis asset quality beginning on page 56. while the company believes that it manages asset quality through prudent underwriting practices and collection operations, it is possible that our asset quality could deteriorate, depending upon economic conditions and other factors. the success of our stop &amp; shop branches depends on the success of the stop &amp; shop brand one element of our strategy is to focus on increasing deposits by providing a wide range of convenient services to our customers. an integral component of this strategy is the bank supermarket banking initiative, pursuant to which, as of december 31, 2018, the bank has established 148 full-service stop &amp; shop branches throughout connecticut and southeastern new york, most of which are in close proximity to our traditional branches, which provide customers with the convenience of seven-day-a-week banking. at december 31, 2018, 35% of the bank branches were located in stop &amp; shop supermarkets and 13% of our total deposits at that date were held in stop &amp; shop branches. the bank currently has exclusive branching rights in stop &amp; shop supermarkets in the state of connecticut and certain counties in the state of new york, in the form of licensing agreements between the stop &amp; shop supermarket company and the bank, which provides for the leasing of space to the bank within stop &amp; shop supermarkets for branch use. the bank has the exclusive right to branch in these supermarkets until 2022, provided that the bank does not default on its obligations under the licensing agreement. 11 table of contents under the terms of the licensing agreements, the bank has the obligation to open branches in new stop &amp; shop locations, even if stop &amp; shop market share declines or the value of the stop &amp; shop brand is diminished. the licensing agreements do not stipulate the number of branch openings per year but, rather, apply only to those new stop &amp; shop locations that meet or exceed specified thresholds as to size (square footage) and/or customer traffic. based on our experience, we would expect the application of these thresholds to result in the opening of approximately 2-4 new branches per year in stop &amp; shop locations. stop &amp; shop is a leading grocery store in connecticut. the success of the bank supermarket branches is dependent, in part, on the success of the stop &amp; shop supermarkets in which they are located. a drop in stop &amp; shop market share, a decrease in the number of stop &amp; shop locations or customers, or a decline in the overall quality of stop &amp; shop supermarkets could result in decreased business for the stop &amp; shop branches, in the form of fewer loan originations, lower deposit generation and fewer overall branch transactions, and could influence market perception of the bank stop &amp; shop supermarket branches as convenient banking locations. we depend on our executive officers and key personnel to continue implementing our long-term business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services we believe that our continued growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management team. the competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry can be intense, and the loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. our business is affected by the international, national, regional and local economies in which we operate changes in international, national, regional and local economic conditions affect our business. if economic conditions change significantly or quickly, our business operations could suffer, and we could become weaker financially as a result. during certain economic cycles, the housing and real estate markets, as well as the broader economy, may experience declines, both on a national and local level. housing market conditions in the new england and new york metro regions, where much of our lending activity occurs, may be adversely impacted, leading to a reduced level of sales, an increased inventory of houses on the market, a decline in house prices and an increase in the length of time houses remain on the market. no assurance can be given that these economic conditions will not occur or that such conditions will not result in a decrease in our interest income, an increase in our non-performing loans, an increase in our provision for loan losses or an adverse impact on our loan losses. significant volatility in the financial and capital markets during this time led to credit and liquidity concerns, a recessionary economic environment and, in turn, weakness within the commercial sector. our loan portfolio is not immune to potential negative consequences arising as a result of general economic weakness and, in particular, a prolonged downturn in the housing market on a national scale. decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for loans. in addition, adverse changes in the economy could have a negative effect on the ability of borrowers to make scheduled loan payments, which would likely have an adverse impact on earnings. further, an increase in loan delinquencies may serve to decrease interest income and adversely impact loan loss experience, resulting in an increased provision and allowance for loan losses. 12 table of contents international economic uncertainty continues to have an impact on the u.s. financial markets, potentially suppressing stock prices and adding to volatility. our foreign country exposure, which is defined as the aggregation of exposure maintained with financial institutions, companies or individuals in a given country outside of the u.s., is minimal and indirect, with the majority of such exposure comprised of corporate debt securities. our sovereign credit exposure is comprised of an immaterial amount of government bonds issued by a single non-european sovereign. the geographic concentration of our loan portfolio could make us vulnerable to a downturn in the economies in which we operate at december 31, 2018, 26%, 20% and 18% of the company loans by outstanding principal amount were to customers located within connecticut, new york and massachusetts, respectively. loans to people and businesses located in the new england states as a group represented 56% of total loans at that date. how well our business performs depends very much on the health of these regional and local economies. we could experience losses in our real estate-related loan portfolios if the prices for housing and other kinds of real estate decreased significantly in new england or southeastern new york. if the economic environment deteriorates, or negative trends emerge with respect to the financial markets, the new england and southeastern new york economies could suffer more than the national economy. this would be especially likely in fairfield county, connecticut (where the company is headquartered) as well as the suburban communities of new york city and boston as a result of the significant number of people living in these areas who also work in the financial services industry. in addition, our ability to continue to originate real estate loans may be impaired by adverse changes in the local and regional economic conditions in these real estate markets. decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for our loans. adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. in addition, if poor economic conditions result in decreased demand for real estate loans, our profits may decrease because our alternative investments may earn less income for us than real estate loans. our equipment financing business, which operates nationally, could be negatively affected by adverse changes in the national economy, even if those changes have no significant effect on the local and regional economies in which our other businesses operate. no assurance can be given that such conditions will not occur or that such conditions will not result in a decrease in our interest income, an increase in our non-performing loans, an increase in our provision for loan losses or an adverse impact on our loan losses. in response to competitive pressures, our costs could increase if we were required to increase our service and convenience levels or our margins could decrease if we were required to increase deposit rates or lower interest rates on loans people united faces significant competition for deposits and loans. in deciding where to deposit their money, many people look first at the interest rate they will earn. they also might consider whether a bank offers other kinds of services they might need and, if they have been a customer of a bank before, what their experience was like. people also like convenience, so the number of offices and banking hours may be important. some people also prefer the availability of on-line services. people united competes with other banks, credit unions, brokerage firms and money market funds for deposits. some people may decide to buy bonds or similar kinds of investments issued by companies or by federal, state and local governments and agencies, instead of opening a deposit account. 13 table of contents in making decisions about loans, many people consider the interest rate they will have to pay. they also consider any extra fees they might have to pay in order to get the loan. many business loans are more complicated because there may not be a standard type of loan that meets all of the customer needs. business borrowers consider many different factors that are not all financial in nature, including the type and amount of security the lender wants and other terms of the loan that do not involve the interest rate. people united competes with other banks, credit unions, credit card issuers, finance companies, mortgage lenders and mortgage brokers for loans. insurance companies also compete with people united for some types of commercial loans. several of people united competitors have branches in the same market area as it does, some of which are much larger than it is. the new england region, including connecticut, which is people united predominant market, and specifically fairfield county, where people united is headquartered, is an attractive banking market. as locally-based banks continue to be acquired by large regional and national companies, there are not as many bank competitors in our market as there used to be, but the remaining ones are usually larger and have more resources than the banks they acquired. people united also has competition from outside its own market area. a bank that does not have any branches in our primary markets can still have customers there by providing banking services on-line. it costs money to set up and maintain a branch system. banks that do not spend as much money as people united does on branches might be more profitable than it is, even if they pay higher interest on deposits and charge lower interest on loans. changes in federal and state regulation could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition the banking business is heavily regulated by the federal and state governments. banking laws and rules are for the most part intended to protect depositors, not stockholders. banking laws and rules can change at any time. the government agencies responsible for supervising people united businesses can also change the way they interpret these laws and rules, even if the rules themselves do not change. we need to make sure that our business activities comply with any changes in these rules or the interpretation of the rules. we might be less profitable if we have to change the way we conduct business in order to comply. our business might suffer in other ways as well. changes in state and federal tax laws or the accounting standards we are required to follow can make our business less profitable. changes in the government economic and monetary policies may hurt our ability to compete for deposits and loans. changes in these policies can also make it more expensive for us to do business. the government agencies responsible for supervising our business can take drastic action if they think we are not conducting business safely or are too weak financially. they can force people united to hold additional capital, pay higher deposit insurance premiums, stop paying dividends, stop making certain kinds of loans or stop offering certain kinds of deposits. if the agencies took any of these steps or other similar steps, it would probably make our business less profitable. 14 table of contents enactment of the dfa has resulted in significant changes in the financial regulatory landscape, many of which affect us. among the more significant provisions of the dfa, as well as their actual or anticipated impact, if quantifiable, are: changes to the regulatory landscape, including: creation of the bcfp, which is empowered to promulgate new consumer protection regulations and revise existing regulations in many areas of consumer protection, and exercise exclusive authority over our consumer compliance examinations; and restrictions on the ability of federal bank regulatory authorities to preempt the application of state consumer protection laws and regulations. limitations on the amount of interchange fees that an issuer of debit cards may charge or receive: the dfa limits the amount of interchange fee that an issuer of debit cards may charge or receive to an amount that is reasonable and proportional to the cost of the transaction. the dfa further provides that a debit card issuer may not restrict the number of payment card networks on which a debit card transaction may be processed to a single network or limit the ability of a merchant to direct the routing of debit card payments for processing. changes impacting the financial products and services we offer to our customers: all federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the dfa. as of december 31, 2018, the bank non-interest bearing deposits totaled $8.5 billion, or 24% of total deposits. the company interest expense may increase and net interest margin may decrease if it begins to offer higher rates of interest than are currently offered on demand deposits. stricter capital requirements for bank holding companies: the dfa imposes stringent capital requirements on bank holding companies by, among other things, imposing leverage ratios on holding companies and prohibiting the inclusion of new trust preferred issuances in tier i capital. the dfa also increases regulation of derivatives and hedging transactions, which could limit the ability of people united to enter into, or increase the costs associated with, interest rate and other hedging transactions. mortgage rules promulgated by the bcfp: the bcfp has issued a series of final rules to implement provisions in the dfa related to mortgage origination and mortgage servicing. these rules, which went into effect in january 2014 and which may increase the cost of originating and servicing residential mortgage loans, include: a rule to implement the requirement that creditors make a reasonable, good faith determination of a consumer ability to repay any consumer credit transaction secured by a dwelling and establish certain protections from liability under this requirement for qualified mortgages ; and a rule addressing mortgage servicers obligations to: correct errors asserted by mortgage loan borrowers; provide certain information requested by such borrowers; and provide protections to such borrowers in connection with force-placed insurance. additionally, this final rule addresses servicers obligations to: provide information about mortgage loss mitigation options to delinquent borrowers; establish policies and procedures for providing delinquent borrowers with continuity of contact with servicer personnel capable of performing certain functions; and evaluate borrowers applications for available loss mitigation options. while it is difficult to fully quantify the increase in our regulatory compliance burden, we do believe that costs associated with regulatory compliance will continue to increase. because certain other provisions of the dfa still require regulatory rulemaking, it is not clear how those new regulations will affect people united. 15 table of contents if people united allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings would decrease people united is exposed to the risk that customers will not be able to repay their loans. this risk is inherent in the lending business. there is also the risk that the customer collateral will not be sufficient to cover the balance of their loan, as underlying collateral values fluctuate with market changes. people united records an allowance for loan losses to cover probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio. the allowance for loan losses is established through provisions for loan losses charged to income. losses on loans, including impaired loans, are charged to the allowance for loan losses when all or a portion of a loan is deemed to be uncollectible. recoveries of loans previously charged off are credited to the allowance for loan losses when realized. people united maintains the allowance for loan losses at a level that is deemed to be appropriate to absorb probable losses inherent in the respective loan portfolios, based on a quarterly evaluation of a variety of factors. these factors include, but are not limited to: people united historical loan loss experience and recent trends in that experience; risk ratings assigned by lending personnel to commercial real estate loans, commercial and industrial loans and equipment financing loans, and the results of ongoing reviews of those ratings by people united independent loan review function; an evaluation of delinquent and non-performing loans and related collateral values; the probability of loss in view of geographic and industry concentrations and other portfolio risk characteristics; the present financial condition of borrowers; and current economic conditions. while people united seeks to use the best available information to make these evaluations and, at december 31, 2018, believed that the allowance for loan losses was appropriate to cover probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio, it is possible that borrower defaults could exceed the current estimates for loan losses, which would reduce earnings. in addition, future increases to the allowance for loan losses may be necessary based on changes in economic conditions, results of regulatory examinations, further information obtained regarding known problem loans, increasing charge-offs of existing problem loans, or the identification of additional problem loans and other factors, which would also reduce earnings. see note 1 (including the section entitled new accounting standards) to the consolidated financial statements for additional information concerning people united allowance for loan losses. our goodwill may be determined to be impaired at a future date depending on the results of periodic impairment evaluations people united evaluates goodwill for impairment on an annual basis (or more frequently, if necessary). according to applicable accounting requirements, acceptable valuation methods include present-value measurements based on multiples of earnings or revenues, or similar performance measures. if the quoted market price for people united common stock were to decline significantly, or if it was determined that the carrying amount of our goodwill exceeded its implied fair value, we would be required to write down the asset recorded for goodwill as reflected in the consolidated statements of condition. this, in turn, would result in a charge to earnings and, thus, a reduction in stockholders equity. see notes 1 and 6 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information concerning people united goodwill and the required impairment test. people united may fail to successfully integrate acquired companies and realize all of the anticipated benefits of an acquisition the ultimate success of an acquisition will depend, in part, on the ability of people united to realize the anticipated benefits from combining the businesses of people united with those of an acquired company. if people united is not able to successfully combine the businesses, the anticipated benefits of a merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. 16 table of contents a failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third-party vendors and other service providers, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses in the ordinary course of business, we rely on our ability to securely process, record, monitor and store data associated with a large number of customer transactions on a continuous basis. in doing so, our business relies on various digital technologies, computer and email systems, software and networks to conduct operations, and for which we have information security procedures and controls in place. still, as customer, public and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions, breakdowns and security breaches. security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents may include, but are not limited to, attempts to access information, including customer and company information, malicious code, computer viruses and denial of service attacks that could result in unauthorized access, misuse, loss or destruction of data (including confidential customer or proprietary information), account takeovers, unavailability of service or other events. these types of threats may derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of external or internal parties, or may result from accidental technological failure. further sources of operational and information security risk to us include (i) our customers, who, when accessing our products and services, may use computers or mobile devices that are beyond our security control systems and (ii) third parties with whom we do business or that facilitate our business activities (including exchanges, clearing houses, financial intermediaries or vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations) should they suffer breakdowns, failures or capacity constraints of their own systems. in recent years, information security risks for financial institutions, such as ours, have increased due, in part, to (i) the proliferation of new technologies, including internet and mobile banking capabilities, to conduct financial transactions and (ii) the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, hostile foreign governments, activists and other external parties. there have been several instances involving financial services and consumer-based companies reporting unauthorized access to, and disclosure of, client or customer information or the destruction or theft of corporate data. there have also been highly-publicized cases where hackers have requested ransom payments in exchange for not disclosing customer information. while we have not, to date, experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things: (i) the constantly evolving nature of these threats; (ii) the size and scale of people united; (iii) our plans to continue implementing our internet and mobile banking strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions in order to serve our customers when and how they want to be served; (iv) our expanded geographic footprint; (v) the outsourcing of some of our business operations; and (vi) the continued uncertain global economic environment. as a result, cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a focus for us. as threats continue to increase in number, intensity and sophistication, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities. disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our business and customers, or cyber-attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our products and services could result in customer attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational harm, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. 17 table of contents availability of first lien data with respect to our home equity loans and lines of credit could delay our response to any deterioration in the borrower credit we do not currently have statistics for our entire portfolio of home equity loans and lines of credit with respect to first liens serviced by third parties that have priority over our junior liens, as we did not historically capture that data on our loan servicing systems. as a result, we may therefore be unaware that the loan secured by the first lien is not performing, which could delay our response to an apparent deterioration in the borrower creditworthiness. as of december 31, 2018, full and complete first lien position data was not readily available for 31% of the home equity portfolio which, in turn, represented 2% of our overall loan portfolio at that date. we are actively working with a third-party vendor to obtain the missing first lien information and have, in certain cases, obtained the data through information reported to credit bureaus when the borrower defaults. this data collection effort, however, can be more difficult in cases where more than one mortgage is reported in a borrower credit report and/or there is not a corresponding property address associated with a reported mortgage, in which case we are often unable to associate a specific first lien with our junior lien. see the discussion in management discussion and analysis asset quality portfolio risk elements home equity lending beginning on page 58 for more detail, including steps we are taking to otherwise address this issue. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 75 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk management market risk represents the risk of loss to earnings, capital and the economic values of certain assets and liabilities resulting from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. the only significant market risk exposure for people united at this time is irr, which is a result of the company core business activities of making loans and accepting deposits. interest rate risk the effective management of irr is essential to achieving the company financial objectives. responsibility for overseeing management of irr resides with alco. the goal of alco is to generate a stable net interest margin over entire interest rate cycles regardless of changes in either short- or long-term interest rates. generating earnings by taking excessive irr is prohibited by the irr limits established by the company board of directors. alco manages irr by using two primary risk measurement techniques: simulation of net interest income and simulation of economic value of equity. these two measurements are complementary and provide both short-term and long-term risk profiles of the company. net interest income at risk simulation is used to measure the sensitivity of net interest income to changes in market rates over a period of time, such as 12 or 24 months. this simulation captures underlying product behaviors, such as asset and liability re-pricing dates, balloon dates, interest rate indices and spreads, rate caps and floors, as well as other behavioral attributes. the simulation of net interest income also requires a number of key assumptions such as: (i) future balance sheet volume and mix assumptions that are management judgments based on estimates and historical experience; (ii) prepayment projections for loans and securities that are projected under each interest rate scenario using internal and external analytics; (iii) new business loan spreads that are based on recent new business origination experience; and (iv) deposit pricing assumptions that are based on historical experience and management judgment. combined, these assumptions can be inherently uncertain, and as a result, actual results may differ from simulation forecasts due to the timing, magnitude and frequency of interest rate changes, future business conditions, as well as unanticipated changes in management strategies. the company uses two sets of standard scenarios to measure net interest income at risk. parallel shock scenarios assume instantaneous parallel movements in the yield curve compared to a flat yield curve scenario. yield curve twist scenarios assume the shape of the curve flattens or steepens instantaneously centered on the 18-month point of the curve, thereby segmenting the yield curve into a short-end and a long-end . the following tables set forth the estimated percent change in the company net interest income at risk over one-year simulation periods beginning december 31, 2018 and 2017. a down 200 basis points scenario has been added to the parallel shock simulation for december 31, 2018. parallel shock rate change (basis points) estimated percent change in net interest income 2018 2017 +300 7.6 % 9.3 % +200 5.3 6.5 +100 2.8 3.4 -100 (3.6 ) (4.9 ) -200 (9.9 ) n/a 75 table of contents yield curve twist rate change (basis points) estimated percent change in net interest income 2018 2017 short end -100 (1.7 )% (2.5 )% short end +100 1.6 1.7 long end -100 (1.8 ) (2.3 ) long end +100 1.3 1.8 the net interest income at risk simulation results indicate that at both december 31, 2018 and 2017, the company is asset sensitive over the twelve-month forecast horizon (i.e. net interest income will increase if market rates rise). the asset sensitive position at december 31, 2018 primarily reflects: (i) approximately 90% of the company loan portfolio being funded by less rate-sensitive core deposits; (ii) approximately 43% of the company loan portfolio being comprised of prime rate and one-month libor-based loans; and (iii) the repricing of variable-rate loans, the origination of fixed-rate loans and the reinvestment of securities proceeds all over the twelve-month forecast horizon. the company net interest income at risk exposure in the down rate scenarios has improved since december 31, 2017 primarily due to: (i) slower mortgage-backed security and residential mortgage loan prepayments as a result of higher interest rates; (ii) an increase in deposit pricing elasticity assumptions in the irr model; and (iii) the benefits from the company ability to lower deposit rates in light of the current rate environment. the acquisition of first connecticut had minimum impact on the company net interest income at risk exposure. based on the company irr position at december 31, 2018, an immediate 100 basis point parallel increase in interest rates translates to an approximate $39 million increase in net interest income on an annualized basis. economic value of equity at risk simulation is conducted in tandem with net interest income simulations, to ascertain a longer term view of the company irr position by capturing longer-term re-pricing risk and options risk embedded in the balance sheet. it measures the sensitivity of economic value of equity to changes in interest rates. economic value of equity at risk simulation values only the current balance sheet and does not incorporate the growth assumptions used for income simulations. as with net interest income modeling, this simulation captures product characteristics such as loan resets, re-pricing terms, maturity dates, rate caps and floors. key assumptions include loan prepayment speeds, deposit pricing elasticity and non-maturity deposit attrition rates. these assumptions can have significant impacts on valuation results as the assumptions remain in effect for the entire life of each asset and liability. the company conducts core deposit behavior studies on a periodic basis to support deposit assumptions used in the valuation process. all key assumptions are subject to periodic review. base case economic value of equity at risk is calculated by estimating the net present value of all future cash flows from existing assets and liabilities using current interest rates. the current spot interest rate curve is shocked up and down to generate new interest rate curves for parallel rate shock scenarios. these new curves are then used to re-calculate economic value of equity at risk for these rate shock scenarios. the following table sets forth the estimated percent change in the company economic value of equity at risk, assuming various instantaneous parallel shocks in interest rates. a down 200 basis points scenario has been added to the parallel shock simulation at december 31, 2018. parallel shock rate change (basis points) estimated percent change in economic value of equity 2018 2017 +300 (12.0 )% (10.5 )% +200 (7.2 ) (5.4 ) +100 (2.8 ) (1.4 ) -100 (1.0 ) (2.9 ) -200 (6.7 ) n/a 76 table of contents the company economic value of equity at risk profile indicates that at december 31, 2018, the company economic value of equity is liability sensitive in a rising rate environment. the increase in liability sensitivity since december 31, 2017 primarily reflects: (i) an increase in mortgage-backed security and residential mortgage loan duration; (ii) a decrease in the modeled weighted average life of non-maturity deposits resulting from higher interest rates; (iii) an increase in deposit pricing elasticity assumptions in the irr model; and (iv) the addition of first connecticut residential mortgage and commercial real estate loan portfolios. people united irr position at december 31, 2018, as set forth in the net interest income at risk and economic value of equity at risk tables above, reflects an asset sensitive net interest income at risk position and a liability sensitive economic value of equity position. from a net interest income perspective, asset sensitivity over the next 12 months is primarily attributable to the effect of the substantial prime and libor-based loan balances that are funded mainly by less rate-sensitive deposits. from an economic value of equity perspective, in a rising rate environment, the company assets are more price sensitive than its liabilities due to slightly longer asset duration, which serves to create a liability sensitive risk position. given the uncertainty of the magnitude, timing and direction of future interest rate movements and the shape of the yield curve, actual results may vary from those predicted by the company models. management has established procedures to be followed in the event of an anticipated or actual breach in policy limits. as of december 31, 2018, there were no breaches of the company internal policy limits with respect to either irr measure. management utilizes both interest rate measures in the normal course of measuring and managing irr and believes that each measure is valuable in understanding the company irr position. people united uses derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps, as components of its market risk management (principally to manage irr). certain other derivatives are entered into in connection with transactions with commercial customers. derivatives are not used for speculative purposes. at december 31, 2018, people united used interest rate swaps to manage irr associated with certain interest-bearing assets and interest-bearing liabilities. the bank has entered into pay floating/receive fixed interest rate swaps to reduce its irr exposure to the variability in interest cash flows on certain floating-rate commercial loans. the bank has agreed with the swap counterparties to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed-rate and floating-rate interest amounts calculated based on notional amounts totaling $210 million. the floating-rate interest payments made under the swaps are calculated using the same floating rate received on the commercial loans. the swaps effectively convert the floating-rate one-month libor interest payments received on the commercial loans to a fixed rate and consequently reduce the bank exposure to variability in short-term interest rates. these swaps are accounted for as cash flow hedges. the bank has entered into a pay floating/receive fixed interest rate swap to hedge the change in fair value due to changes in interest rates of the bank $400 million subordinated notes. the bank has agreed with the swap counterparty to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed-rate and floating-rate interest amounts calculated based on a notional amount of $375 million. the fixed-rate interest payments received on the swap will essentially offset the fixed-rate interest payments made on these notes, notwithstanding the notional difference between these notes and the swap. the floating-rate interest amounts paid under the swap are calculated based on three-month libor plus 126.5 basis points. the swap effectively converts the fixed-rate subordinated notes to a floating-rate liability. this swap is accounted for as a fair value hedge. people united has written guidelines that have been approved by its board of directors and alco governing the use of derivative financial instruments, including approved counterparties and credit limits. credit risk associated with these instruments is controlled and monitored through policies and procedures governing collateral management and credit approval. 77 table of contents by using derivatives, people united is exposed to credit risk to the extent that counterparties to the derivative contracts do not perform as required. should a counterparty fail to perform under the terms of a derivative contract, the company counterparty credit risk is equal to the amount reported as a derivative asset in the consolidated statements of condition. in accordance with the company balance sheet offsetting policy (see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements), amounts reported as derivative assets represent derivative contracts in a gain position, without consideration for derivative contracts in a loss position with the same counterparty (to the extent subject to master netting arrangements) and posted collateral. people united seeks to minimize counterparty credit risk through credit approvals, limits, monitoring procedures, execution of master netting arrangements and obtaining collateral, where appropriate. counterparties to people united derivatives include major financial institutions and exchanges that undergo comprehensive and periodic internal credit analysis as well as maintain investment grade credit ratings from the major credit rating agencies. as such, management believes the risk of incurring credit losses on derivative contracts with those counterparties is remote and losses, if any, would be immaterial. certain of people united derivative contracts contain provisions establishing collateral requirements (subject to minimum collateral posting thresholds) based on the company external credit rating. if the company senior unsecured debt rating were to fall below the level generally recognized as investment grade, the counterparties to such derivative contracts could require additional collateral on those derivative transactions in a net liability position (after considering the effect of master netting arrangements and posted collateral). there were no derivative instruments with such credit-related contingent features in a net liability position at december 31, 2018. foreign currency risk foreign exchange contracts are commitments to buy or sell foreign currency on a future date at a contractual price. people united uses these instruments on a limited basis to (i) eliminate its exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates on certain of its commercial loans that are denominated in foreign currencies and (ii) provide foreign exchange contracts on behalf of commercial customers within credit exposure limits. gains and losses on foreign exchange contracts substantially offset the translation gains and losses on the related loans. derivative financial instruments the following table summarizes certain information concerning derivative financial instruments utilized by people united in its management of irr and foreign currency risk: interest rate swaps foreign exchange contracts as of december 31, 2018 (dollars in millions) cash flow hedge fair value hedge notional principal amounts $210.0 $375.0 $ 145.2 weighted average interest rates: pay floating (receive fixed) 2.35% (1.72%) libor +1.265% (4.00%) n/a weighted average remaining term to maturity (in months) 22 67 1 fair value: recognized as an asset $ $ $ 0.9 recognized as a liability 0.8 people united enters into interest rate swaps and caps with certain of its commercial customers. in order to minimize its risk, these customer interest rate swaps (pay floating/receive fixed) and caps have been offset with essentially matching interest rate swaps (pay fixed/receive floating) and caps with people united institutional counterparties. hedge accounting has not been applied for these derivatives. accordingly, changes in the fair value of all such interest rate swaps and caps are recognized in current earnings. 78 table of contents the following table summarizes certain information concerning these interest rate swaps and caps: interest rate swaps interest rate caps as of december 31, 2018 (dollars in millions) commercial customers institutional counterparties commercial customers institutional counterparties notional principal amounts $7,455.9 $7,161.3 $ 329.1 $ 329.1 weighted average interest rates: pay floating (receive fixed) 2.27% (2.51%) n/a n/a pay fixed (receive floating) 2.37% (2.36%) n/a n/a weighted average strike rate n/a n/a 0.53 % 0.53 % weighted average remaining term to maturity (in months) 79 81 28 28 fair value: recognized as an asset $76.3 $22.6 $0.6 $2.5 recognized as a liability 102.6 32.4 2.5 0.6 see notes 21 and 22 to the consolidated financial statements for further information relating to derivatives.risk factors 8 risk factors changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition people's united makes most of its earnings based on the difference between interest it earns compared to interest it pays. this difference is called the interest spread. people's united earns interest on loans and to a much lesser extent on securities and short-term investments. these are called interest-earning assets. people's united pays interest on some forms of deposits and on funds it borrows from other sources. these are called interest-bearing liabilities. people's united's interest spread can change depending on when interest rates earned on interest-earning assets change, compared to when interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities change. some rate changes occur while these assets or liabilities are still on people's united's books. other rate changes occur when these assets or liabilities mature and are replaced by new interest-earning assets or interest-bearing liabilities at different rates. it may be difficult to replace interest-earning assets quickly, since customers may not want to borrow money when interest rates are high, or people's united may not be able to make loans that meet its lending standards. people's united interest spread may also change based on the mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. people's united's interest spread may be lower if the timing of interest rate changes is different for its interest-earning assets compared to its interest-bearing liabilities. for example, if interest rates go down, people's united could earn less on some of its interest-earning assets while it is still obligated to pay higher rates on some of its interest-bearing liabilities. on the other hand, if interest rates go up, people's united might have to pay more on some of its interest-bearing liabilities while it continues to receive lower rates on some of its interest-earning assets. people's united manages this risk using many different techniques. if unsuccessful in managing this risk, people's united may be less profitable. the geographic concentration of our loan portfolio could make us vulnerable to a downturn in the economies in which we operate at december 31, 2019, 25%, 22% and 18% of the company's loans by outstanding principal amount were to customers located within connecticut, massachusetts and new york, respectively. loans to people and businesses located in the new england states as a group represented 58% of total loans at that date. how well our business performs depends very much on the health of these regional and local economies. we could experience losses in our real estate-related loan portfolios if the prices for housing and other kinds of real estate decreased significantly in new england or southeastern new york. if the economic environment deteriorates, or negative trends emerge with respect to the financial markets, the new england and southeastern new york economies could suffer more than the national economy. this would be especially likely in fairfield county, connecticut (where the company is headquartered) as well as the suburban communities of new york city and boston as a result of the significant number of people living in these areas who also work in the financial services industry. 8 in addition, our ability to continue to originate real estate loans may be impaired by adverse changes in the local and regional economic conditions in these real estate markets. decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for our loans. adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. in addition, if poor economic conditions result in decreased demand for real estate loans, our profits may decrease because our alternative investments may be less profitable than real estate loans. our equipment financing business, which operates nationally, could be negatively affected by adverse changes in the national economy, even if those changes have no significant effect on the local and regional economies in which our other businesses operate. no assurance can be given that such conditions will not occur or that such conditions will not result in a decrease in our interest income, an increase in our non-performing loans, an increase in our provision for loan losses or an adverse impact on our loan losses. if people's united's allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings would decrease people's united is exposed to the risk that customers will not be able to repay their loans. this risk is inherent in the lending business. there is also the risk that the customer's collateral will not be sufficient to cover the balance of their loan, as underlying collateral values fluctuate with market changes. people's united records an allowance for loan losses to cover probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio. the allowance for loan losses is established through provisions for loan losses charged to income. losses on loans, including impaired loans, are charged to the allowance for loan losses when all or a portion of a loan is deemed to be uncollectible. recoveries of loans previously charged off are credited to the allowance for loan losses when realized. people's united maintains the allowance for loan losses at a level that is deemed to be appropriate to absorb probable losses inherent in the respective loan portfolios, based on a quarterly evaluation of a variety of factors. these factors include, but are not limited to: people's united's historical loan loss experience and recent trends in that experience; risk ratings assigned by lending personnel to commercial real estate loans, commercial and industrial loans and equipment financing loans, and the results of ongoing reviews of those ratings by people's united's independent loan review function; an evaluation of delinquent and non-performing loans and related collateral values; the probability of loss in view of geographic and industry concentrations and other portfolio risk characteristics; the present financial condition of borrowers; and current economic conditions. while people's united seeks to use the best available information to make these evaluations and, at december 31, 2019, believed that the allowance for loan losses was appropriate to cover probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio, it is possible that borrower defaults could exceed the current estimates for loan losses, which would reduce earnings. in june 2016, the financial accounting standards board (the fasb ) amended its standards with respect to certain aspects of measurement, recognition and disclosure of credit losses on loans and other financial instruments carried at amortized cost (the cecl standard ). these amendments require an entity to record, at the time of origination, an estimate of credit losses expected throughout the life of the asset, as opposed to the current practice of recording losses when a loss event is probable of having occurred. subsequent changes in the initial estimate of credit losses are recorded through provision for loan losses. the cecl standard is effective for people's united on january 1, 2020 and, in connection with its adoption, the company will record a one-time cumulative effect adjustment to the allowance for credit losses and retained earnings. prospectively, the cecl standard could materially affect how the allowance for credit losses is determined, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. see note 1 (specifically the section entitled new accounting standards ) to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. changes in our asset quality could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition asset quality measures the performance of a borrower in repaying a loan, with interest, on time. while we believe we have benefited from relatively stable asset quality, there are elements of our loan portfolio that inherently present greater credit risk, such as interest-only residential mortgage loans, home equity loans and lines with incomplete first lien data, and commercial real estate loans. each of these portfolio risk elements, where potentially material in the context of our overall loan portfolio, are discussed in greater detail within management's discussion and analysis asset quality beginning on page 49. while the company believes that it manages asset quality through prudent underwriting practices and collection operations, it is possible that our asset quality could deteriorate, depending upon economic conditions and other factors. 9 availability of first lien data with respect to our home equity loans and lines of credit could delay our response to any deterioration in the borrower's credit we do not currently have statistics for our entire portfolio of home equity loans and lines of credit with respect to first liens serviced by third parties that have priority over our junior liens, as we did not historically capture that data on our loan servicing systems. as a result, we may therefore be unaware that the loan secured by the first lien is not performing, which could delay our response to an apparent deterioration in the borrower's creditworthiness. as of december 31, 2019, full and complete first lien position data was not readily available for 47% of the home equity portfolio which, in turn, represented 3% of our overall loan portfolio at that date. we are working to obtain the missing first lien information and have, in certain cases, obtained the data through information reported to credit bureaus when the borrower defaults. this data collection effort, however, can be more difficult in cases where more than one mortgage is reported in a borrower's credit report and/or there is not a corresponding property address associated with a reported mortgage, in which case we are often unable to associate a specific first lien with our junior lien. see the discussion in management's discussion and analysis asset quality portfolio risk elements home equity lending beginning on page 50 for more detail, including steps we are taking to otherwise address this issue. the success of our stop &amp; shop branches depends on the success of the stop &amp; shop brand one element of our strategy is to focus on increasing deposits by providing a wide range of convenient services to our customers. an integral component of this strategy is the bank's supermarket banking initiative, pursuant to which, as of december 31, 2019, the bank has established 147 full-service stop &amp; shop branches throughout connecticut and southeastern new york, most of which are in close proximity to our traditional branches, which provide customers with the convenience of seven-days-a-week banking in most locations. at december 31, 2019, 33% of the bank's branches were located in stop &amp; shop supermarkets and 11% of our total deposits at that date were held in stop &amp; shop branches. the bank currently has exclusive branching rights in stop &amp; shop supermarkets in the state of connecticut and certain counties in the state of new york, in the form of licensing agreements between the stop &amp; shop supermarket company and the bank, which provides for the leasing of space to the bank within stop &amp; shop supermarkets for branch use. the bank has the exclusive right to branch in these supermarkets until 2022, provided that the bank does not default on its obligations under the licensing agreement. under the terms of the licensing agreements, the bank has the obligation to open branches in new stop &amp; shop locations, even if stop &amp; shop's market share declines or the value of the stop &amp; shop brand is diminished. the licensing agreements do not stipulate the number of branch openings per year but, rather, apply only to those new stop &amp; shop locations that meet or exceed specified thresholds as to size (square footage) and/or customer traffic. based on our experience, we would expect the application of these thresholds to result in the opening of approximately 1-2 new branches per year in stop &amp; shop locations. stop &amp; shop is a leading grocery store in connecticut. the success of the bank's supermarket branches is dependent, in part, on the success of the stop &amp; shop supermarkets in which they are located. a drop in stop &amp; shop's market share, a decrease in the number of stop &amp; shop locations or customers, or a decline in the overall quality of stop &amp; shop supermarkets could result in decreased business for the stop &amp; shop branches, in the form of fewer loan originations, lower deposit generation and fewer overall branch transactions, and could influence market perception of the bank's stop &amp; shop supermarket branches as convenient banking locations. changes in federal and state regulation could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition the banking business is heavily regulated by the federal and state governments. banking laws and rules are for the most part intended to protect depositors, not stockholders. banking laws and rules can change at any time. the government agencies responsible for supervising people's united's businesses can also change the way they interpret these laws and rules, even if the rules themselves do not change. we need to make sure that our business activities comply with any changes in these rules or the interpretation of the rules. we might be less profitable if we have to change the way we conduct business in order to comply. our business might suffer in other ways as well. changes in state and federal tax laws or the accounting standards we are required to follow can make our business less profitable. changes in the government's economic and monetary policies may hurt our ability to compete for deposits and loans. changes in these policies can also make it more expensive for us to do business. the government agencies responsible for supervising our business can take drastic action if they think we are not conducting business safely or are too weak financially. they can force people's united to hold additional capital, pay higher deposit insurance premiums, stop paying dividends, stop making certain kinds of loans or stop offering certain kinds of deposits. if the agencies took any of these steps or other similar steps, it would probably make our business less profitable. 10 enactment of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 (the dfa ) has resulted in significant changes in the financial regulatory landscape, many of which affect us. among the more significant provisions of the dfa, as well as their actual or anticipated impact, if quantifiable, are: changes to the regulatory landscape, including: creation of the cfpb, which is empowered to promulgate new consumer protection regulations and revise existing regulations in many areas of consumer protection, and exercise exclusive authority over our consumer compliance examinations; and restrictions on the ability of federal bank regulatory authorities to preempt the application of state consumer protection laws and regulations. limitations on the amount of interchange fees that an issuer of debit cards may charge or receive: the dfa limits the amount of interchange fee that an issuer of debit cards may charge or receive to an amount that is reasonable and proportional to the cost of the transaction. the dfa further provides that a debit card issuer may not restrict the number of payment card networks on which a debit card transaction may be processed to a single network or limit the ability of a merchant to direct the routing of debit card payments for processing. changes impacting the financial products and services we offer to our customers: all federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the dfa. as of december 31, 2019, the bank's non-interest bearing deposits totaled $9.8 billion, or 22% of total deposits. the company's interest expense may increase and net interest margin may decrease if it begins to offer higher rates of interest than are currently offered on demand deposits. stricter capital requirements for bank holding companies: the dfa imposes stringent capital requirements on bank holding companies by, among other things, imposing leverage ratios on holding companies and prohibiting the inclusion of new trust preferred issuances in tier i capital. the dfa also increases regulation of derivatives and hedging transactions, which could limit the ability of people's united to enter into, or increase the costs associated with, interest rate and other hedging transactions. mortgage rules promulgated by the cfpb: the cfpb has issued a series of final rules to implement provisions in the dfa related to mortgage origination and mortgage servicing. these rules, which went into effect in january 2014 and which may increase the cost of originating and servicing residential mortgage loans, include: a rule to implement the requirement that creditors make a reasonable, good faith determination of a consumer's ability to repay any consumer credit transaction secured by a dwelling and establish certain protections from liability under this requirement for qualified mortgages ; and a rule addressing mortgage servicers' obligations to: correct errors asserted by mortgage loan borrowers; provide certain information requested by such borrowers; and provide protections to such borrowers in connection with force-placed insurance. additionally, this final rule addresses servicers' obligations to: provide information about mortgage loss mitigation options to delinquent borrowers; establish policies and procedures for providing delinquent borrowers with continuity of contact with servicer personnel capable of performing certain functions; and evaluate borrowers' applications for available loss mitigation options. while it is difficult to fully quantify the increase in our regulatory compliance burden, we do believe that costs associated with regulatory compliance will continue to increase. because certain other provisions of the dfa still require regulatory rulemaking, it is not clear how those new regulations will affect people's united. our business is affected by the international, national, regional and local economies in which we operate changes in international, national, regional and local economic conditions affect our business. if economic conditions change significantly or quickly, our business operations could suffer, and we could become weaker financially as a result. during certain economic cycles, the housing and real estate markets, as well as the broader economy, may experience declines, both on a national and local level. housing market conditions in the new england and new york metro regions, where much of our lending activity occurs, may be adversely impacted, leading to a reduced level of sales, an increased inventory of houses on the market, a decline in house prices and an increase in the length of time houses remain on the market. no assurance can be given that these economic conditions will not occur or that such conditions will not result in a decrease in our interest income, an increase in our non-performing loans, an increase in our provision for loan losses or an adverse impact on our loan losses. 11 significant volatility in the financial and capital markets during this time may lead to credit and liquidity concerns, a recessionary economic environment and, in turn, weakness within the commercial sector. our loan portfolio is not immune to potential negative consequences arising as a result of general economic weakness and, in particular, a prolonged downturn in the housing market on a national scale. decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for loans. in addition, adverse changes in the economy could have a negative effect on the ability of borrowers to make scheduled loan payments, which would likely have an adverse impact on earnings. further, an increase in loan delinquencies may serve to decrease interest income and adversely impact loan loss experience, resulting in an increased provision and allowance for loan losses. international economic uncertainty continues to have an impact on the u.s. financial markets, potentially suppressing stock prices and adding to volatility. our foreign country exposure, which is defined as the aggregation of exposure maintained with financial institutions, companies or individuals in a given country outside of the u.s., is minimal and indirect, with the majority of such exposure comprised of corporate debt securities. our sovereign credit exposure is comprised of an immaterial amount of government bonds issued by a single non-european sovereign. in response to competitive pressures, our costs could increase if we were required to increase our service and convenience levels or our margins could decrease if we were required to increase deposit rates or lower interest rates on loans people's united faces significant competition for deposits and loans. in deciding where to deposit their money, many people look first at the interest rate they will earn. they also might consider whether a bank offers other kinds of services they might need and, if they have been a customer of a bank before, what their experience was like. people also like convenience, so the number of offices and banking hours may be important. some people also prefer the availability of on-line services. people's united competes with other banks, credit unions, brokerage firms and money market funds for deposits. some people may decide to buy bonds or similar kinds of investments issued by companies or by federal, state and local governments and agencies, instead of opening a deposit account. in making decisions about loans, many people consider the interest rate they will have to pay. they also consider any extra fees they might have to pay in order to get the loan. many business loans are more complicated because there may not be a standard type of loan that meets all of the customer's needs. business borrowers consider many different factors that are not all financial in nature, including the type and amount of security the lender wants and other terms of the loan that do not involve the interest rate. people's united competes with other banks, credit unions, credit card issuers, finance companies, mortgage lenders and mortgage brokers for loans. insurance companies also compete with people's united for some types of commercial loans. several of people's united's competitors have branches in the same market area as it does, some of which are much larger than it is. the new england region, including connecticut, which is people's united's predominant market, and specifically fairfield county, where people's united is headquartered, is an attractive banking market. as locally-based banks continue to be acquired by large regional and national companies, there are not as many bank competitors in our market as there used to be, but the remaining ones are usually larger and have more resources than the banks they acquired. people's united also has competition from outside its own market area. a bank that does not have any branches in our primary markets can still have customers there by providing online banking services. it costs money to set up and maintain a branch system. banks that do not spend as much money on branches as people's united might be more profitable than we are, even if they pay higher interest on deposits and charge lower interest on loans. we depend on our executive officers and key personnel to continue implementing our long-term business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services we believe that our continued growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management team. the competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry can be intense, and the loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. 12 our goodwill may be determined to be impaired at a future date depending on the results of periodic impairment evaluations people's united evaluates goodwill for impairment on an annual basis (or more frequently, if necessary). according to applicable accounting requirements, acceptable valuation methods include present-value measurements based on multiples of earnings or revenues, or similar performance measures. if the quoted market price for people's united common stock were to decline significantly, or if it was determined that the carrying amount of our goodwill exceeded its implied fair value, we would be required to write down the asset recorded for goodwill as reflected in the consolidated statements of condition. this, in turn, would result in a charge to earnings and, thus, a reduction in stockholders' equity. see notes 1 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information concerning people's united's goodwill and the required impairment test. people's united may fail to successfully integrate acquired companies and realize all of the anticipated benefits of an acquisition the ultimate success of an acquisition will depend, in part, on the ability of people's united to realize the anticipated benefits from combining the businesses of people's united with those of an acquired company. if people's united is not able to successfully combine the businesses, the anticipated benefits of a merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. a failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third-party vendors and other service providers, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses in the ordinary course of business, we rely on our ability to securely process, record, monitor and store data associated with a large number of customer transactions on a continuous basis. in doing so, our business relies on various digital technologies, computer and email systems, software and networks to conduct operations, and for which we have information security procedures and controls in place. still, as customer, public and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions, breakdowns and security breaches. security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents may include, but are not limited to, attempts to access information, including customer and company information, malicious code, computer viruses and denial of service attacks that could result in unauthorized access, misuse, loss or destruction of data (including confidential customer or proprietary information), account takeovers, unavailability of service or other events. these types of threats may derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of external or internal parties, or may result from accidental technological failure. further sources of operational and information security risk to us include (i) our customers, who, when accessing our products and services, may use computers or mobile devices that are beyond our security control systems and (ii) third parties with whom we do business or that facilitate our business activities (including exchanges, clearing houses, financial intermediaries or vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations) should they suffer breakdowns, failures or capacity constraints of their own systems. in recent years, information security risks for financial institutions, such as ours, have increased due, in part, to (i) the proliferation of new technologies, including internet and mobile banking capabilities, to conduct financial transactions and (ii) the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, hostile foreign governments, activists and other external parties. there have been several instances involving financial services and consumer-based companies reporting unauthorized access to, and disclosure of, client or customer information or the destruction or theft of corporate data. there have also been highly-publicized cases where hackers have requested ransom payments in exchange for not disclosing customer information. while we have not, to date, experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things: (i) the constantly evolving nature of these threats; (ii) the size and scale of people's united; (iii) our plans to continue implementing our internet and mobile banking strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions in order to serve our customers when and how they want to be served; (iv) our expanded geographic footprint; (v) the outsourcing of some of our business operations; and (vi) the continued uncertain global economic environment. as a result, cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a focus for us. as threats continue to increase in number, intensity and sophistication, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities. 13 disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our business and customers, or cyber-attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our products and services could result in customer attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational harm, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. the planned phase-out of libor as a reference rate could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition the london interbank offered rate ( libor ) is the reference rate used for many of our transactions, including lending and borrowing activities and the purchase and sale of securities, as well as derivative contracts entered into to manage the risk related to such transactions. in july 2017, the united kingdom's financial conduct authority ( fca ), which regulates libor, announced that it would no longer compel contributing banks to submit to the intercontinental exchange ( ice ) benchmark administrator the rates required to calculate libor after 2021. this announcement indicates that the continuation of libor on the current basis cannot be, and will not be, guaranteed after 2021. consequently, at this time, it is not possible to predict whether and to what extent banks will continue to provide submissions for the calculation of libor. similarly, it is not possible to predict whether libor will continue to be viewed as an acceptable market benchmark, what rate or rates may become accepted alternatives to libor, or what the effect of any such changes in views or alternatives may be on the markets for libor-indexed financial instruments. in response to the fca's announcement, regulators, industry groups and certain committees (e.g. the alternative reference rates committee) have published recommended fall-back language for libor-linked financial instruments, identified recommended alternatives for certain libor rates (e.g. the secured overnight financing rate as the recommended alternative to u.s. dollar libor), and proposed implementations of the recommended alternatives in floating-rate instruments. at this time, it is not possible to predict whether these specific recommendations and proposals will be broadly accepted, whether they will continue to evolve, and what the effect of their implementation may be on the markets for floating-rate financial instruments. a transition from libor could create considerable cost and additional risk for the company. there remains uncertainty as to whether the composition or characteristics of any successor or alternative rate to libor will be similar to, or produce the same economic value as, libor. the transition may change our market risk profile, potentially requiring changes to risk and pricing models, valuation tools, product design and hedging strategies. furthermore, failure to adequately manage this transition process with our customers could adversely impact our reputation and increase legal and operational costs. while we are currently unable to assess the ultimate impact of a transition from libor, failure to effectively manage the transition could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 66 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk management market risk represents the risk of loss to earnings, capital and the economic values of certain assets and liabilities resulting from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. the only significant market risk exposure for people's united at this time is irr, which is a result of the company's core business activities of making loans and accepting deposits. interest rate risk the effective management of irr is essential to achieving the company's financial objectives. responsibility for overseeing management of irr resides with alco. the goal of alco is to generate a stable net interest margin over entire interest rate cycles regardless of changes in either short- or long-term interest rates. generating earnings by taking excessive irr is prohibited by the irr limits established by the company's board of directors. alco manages irr by using two primary risk measurement techniques: simulation of net interest income and simulation of economic value of equity. these two measurements are complementary and provide both short-term and long-term risk profiles of the company. 66 net interest income at risk simulation is used to measure the sensitivity of net interest income to changes in market rates over a period of time, such as 12 or 24 months. this simulation captures underlying product behaviors, such as asset and liability repricing dates, balloon dates, interest rate indices and spreads, rate caps and floors, as well as other behavioral attributes. the simulation of net interest income also requires a number of key assumptions such as: (i) future balance sheet volume and mix assumptions that are management judgments based on estimates and historical experience; (ii) prepayment projections for loans and securities that are projected under each interest rate scenario using internal and external analytics; (iii) new business loan spreads that are based on recent new business origination experience; and (iv) deposit pricing assumptions that are based on historical experience and management judgment. combined, these assumptions can be inherently uncertain, and as a result, actual results may differ from simulation forecasts due to the timing, magnitude and frequency of interest rate changes, future business conditions, as well as unanticipated changes in management strategies. the company uses two sets of standard scenarios to measure net interest income at risk. parallel shock scenarios assume instantaneous parallel movements in the yield curve compared to a flat yield curve scenario. yield curve twist scenarios assume the shape of the curve flattens or steepens instantaneously centered on the 18-month point of the curve, thereby segmenting the yield curve into a short-end and a long-end . the following tables set forth the estimated percent change in the company's net interest income at risk over one-year simulation periods beginning december 31, 2019 and 2018. given the current spot interest rate curve at december 31, 2019, a down 200 basis point rate scenario is no longer simulated due to negative interest rates in this scenario. parallel shock rate change (basis points) estimated percent change in net interest income 2019 2018 +300 4.8 % 7.6 % +200 3.5 5.3 +100 2.0 2.8 -100 (2.1) (3.6) -200 n/a (9.9) yield curve twist rate change (basis points) estimated percent change in net interest income 2019 2018 short end -100 % (1.7) % short end +100 0.6 1.6 long end -100 (2.0) (1.8) long end +100 1.6 1.3 the net interest income at risk simulation results indicate that at both december 31, 2019 and 2018, the company is asset sensitive over the twelve-month forecast horizon (i.e. net interest income will increase if market rates rise). the asset sensitive position at december 31, 2019 primarily reflects: (i) approximately 90% of the company's loan portfolio being funded by less rate-sensitive core deposits; (ii) approximately 44% of the company's loan portfolio being comprised of prime rate and one-month libor-based floating-rate loans; and (iii) the repricing of variable-rate loans, the origination of fixed-rate loans as well as the purchase and reinvestment of securities all over the twelve-month forecast horizon. the decrease the company's asset sensitivity since december 31, 2018 is primarily due to: (i) increased deposit pricing elasticity and shortened deposit pricing lag assumptions in the company's irr model resulting from observed deposit behavior and management's conservative modeling approach; (ii) purchases of securities; (iii) shortened weighted-average life of time deposits; partially offset by organic loan and deposit growth and faster mortgage-backed security and residential mortgage loan prepayments as a result of lower long-end interest rates. the acquisition of bsb bancorp in april 2019 had a slightly negative net interest income sensitivity impact and there was no material net interest income sensitivity impact from the acquisition of united financial in november 2019. based on the company's irr position at december 31, 2019, an immediate 100 basis point parallel increase in interest rates translates to an approximate $33 million increase in net interest income on an annualized basis. 67 economic value of equity at risk simulation is conducted in tandem with net interest income simulations, to ascertain a longer term view of the company's irr position by capturing longer-term re-pricing risk and options risk embedded in the balance sheet. it measures the sensitivity of economic value of equity to changes in interest rates. economic value of equity at risk simulation values only the current balance sheet and does not incorporate the growth assumptions used for income simulations. as with net interest income modeling, this simulation captures product characteristics such as loan resets, repricing terms, maturity dates, rate caps and floors. key assumptions include loan prepayment speeds, deposit pricing elasticity and non-maturity deposit attrition rates. these assumptions can have significant impacts on valuation results as the assumptions remain in effect for the entire life of each asset and liability. the company conducts core deposit behavior studies on a periodic basis to support deposit assumptions used in the valuation process. all key assumptions are subject to periodic review. base case economic value of equity at risk is calculated by estimating the net present value of all future cash flows from existing assets and liabilities using current interest rates. the current spot interest rate curve is shocked up and down to generate new interest rate curves for parallel rate shock scenarios. these new curves are then used to recalculate economic value of equity at risk for these rate shock scenarios. the following table sets forth the estimated percent change in the company's economic value of equity at risk, assuming various instantaneous parallel shocks in interest rates. given the current spot interest rate curve at december 31, 2019, a down 200 basis point rate scenario is no longer simulated due to negative intermediate and long rates in this scenario. parallel shock rate change (basis points) estimated percent change in economic value of equity 2019 2018 +300 (12.6) % (12.0) % +200 (6.6) (7.2) +100 (1.6) (2.8) -100 (3.3) (1.0) -200 n/a (6.7) the company's economic value of equity at risk profile indicates that at december 31, 2019, the company's economic value of equity is liability sensitive in a rising rate environment. the increase in liability sensitivity since december 31, 2018 primarily reflects an increase in the modeled weighted-average life of non-maturity deposits and a decrease in the duration of both mortgage-backed securities and residential mortgage loans resulting from lower long-end interest rates, partially offset by the sensitivity impact from (i) securities purchases; (ii) the acquisition of bsb bancorp and united financial fixed-rate residential mortgage and commercial real estate loan portfolios and; (iii) deposit modeling assumption updates. people's united's irr position at december 31, 2019, as set forth in the net interest income at risk and economic value of equity at risk tables above, reflects an asset sensitive net interest income at risk position and a liability sensitive economic value of equity position. from a net interest income perspective, asset sensitivity over the next 12 months is primarily attributable to the effect of the substantial prime and libor-based loan balances that are funded mainly by less rate-sensitive deposits. from an economic value of equity perspective, in a rising rate environment, the company's assets are more price sensitive than its liabilities due to slightly longer asset duration, which serves to create a liability sensitive risk position. given the uncertainty of the magnitude, timing and direction of future interest rate movements and the shape of the yield curve, actual results may vary from those predicted by the company's models. management has established procedures to be followed in the event of an anticipated or actual breach in policy limits. as of december 31, 2019, there were no breaches of the company's internal policy limits with respect to either irr measure. management utilizes both interest rate measures in the normal course of measuring and managing irr and believes that each measure is valuable in understanding the company's irr position. people's united uses derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps, as components of its market risk management (principally to manage irr). certain other derivatives are entered into in connection with transactions with commercial customers. derivatives are not used for speculative purposes. at december 31, 2019, people's united used interest rate swaps to manage irr associated with certain interest-bearing assets and interest-bearing liabilities. 68 the bank has entered into pay floating/receive fixed interest rate swaps to reduce its irr exposure to the variability in interest cash flows on certain floating-rate commercial loans. the bank has agreed with the swap counterparties to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed-rate and floating-rate interest amounts calculated based on notional amounts totaling $210 million. the floating-rate interest payments made under the swaps are calculated using the same floating rate received on the commercial loans. the swaps effectively convert the floating-rate one-month libor interest payments received on the commercial loans to a fixed rate and consequently reduce the bank's exposure to variability in short-term interest rates. these swaps are accounted for as cash flow hedges. the bank has entered into a pay floating/receive fixed interest rate swap to hedge the change in fair value due to changes in interest rates of the bank's $400 million subordinated notes. the bank has agreed with the swap counterparty to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed-rate and floating-rate interest amounts calculated based on a notional amount of $375 million. the fixed-rate interest payments received on the swap will essentially offset the fixed-rate interest payments made on these notes, notwithstanding the notional difference between these notes and the swap. the floating-rate interest amounts paid under the swap are calculated based on three-month libor plus 126.5 basis points. the swap effectively converts the fixed-rate subordinated notes to a floating-rate liability. this swap is accounted for as a fair value hedge. people's united has written guidelines that have been approved by its board of directors and alco governing the use of derivative financial instruments, including approved counterparties and credit limits. credit risk associated with these instruments is controlled and monitored through policies and procedures governing collateral management and credit approval. by using derivatives, people's united is exposed to credit risk to the extent that counterparties to the derivative contracts do not perform as required. should a counterparty fail to perform under the terms of a derivative contract, the company's counterparty credit risk is equal to the amount reported as a derivative asset in the consolidated statements of condition. in accordance with the company's balance sheet offsetting policy (see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements), amounts reported as derivative assets represent derivative contracts in a gain position, without consideration for derivative contracts in a loss position with the same counterparty (to the extent subject to master netting arrangements) and posted collateral. people's united seeks to minimize counterparty credit risk through credit approvals, limits, monitoring procedures, execution of master netting arrangements and obtaining collateral, where appropriate. counterparties to people's united's derivatives include major financial institutions and exchanges that undergo comprehensive and periodic internal credit analysis as well as maintain investment grade credit ratings from the major credit rating agencies. as such, management believes the risk of incurring credit losses on derivative contracts with those counterparties is remote and losses, if any, would be immaterial. certain of people's united's derivative contracts contain provisions establishing collateral requirements (subject to minimum collateral posting thresholds) based on the company's external credit rating. if the company's senior unsecured debt rating were to fall below the level generally recognized as investment grade, the counterparties to such derivative contracts could require additional collateral on those derivative transactions in a net liability position (after considering the effect of master netting arrangements and posted collateral). there were no derivative instruments with such credit-related contingent features in a net liability position at december 31, 2019. foreign currency risk foreign exchange contracts are commitments to buy or sell foreign currency on a future date at a contractual price. people's united uses these instruments on a limited basis to (i) eliminate its exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates on certain of its commercial loans that are denominated in foreign currencies and (ii) provide foreign exchange contracts on behalf of commercial customers within credit exposure limits. gains and losses on foreign exchange contracts substantially offset the translation gains and losses on the related loans. 69 derivative financial instruments the following table summarizes certain information concerning derivative financial instruments utilized by people's united in its management of irr and foreign currency risk: interest rate swaps foreign exchange contracts as of december 31, 2019 (dollars in millions) cash flow hedge fair value hedge notional principal amounts $ 210.0 $ 375.0 $ 180.4 weighted average interest rates: pay floating (receive fixed) 1.71% (1.72%) libor +1.265% (4.00%) n/a weighted average remaining term to maturity (in months) 10 55 1 fair value: recognized as an asset $ $ $ 1.2 recognized as a liability 1.8 people's united enters into interest rate swaps and caps with certain of its commercial customers. in order to minimize its risk, these customer interest rate swaps (pay floating/receive fixed) and caps have been offset with essentially matching interest rate swaps (pay fixed/receive floating) and caps with people's united's institutional counterparties. hedge accounting has not been applied for these derivatives. accordingly, changes in the fair value of all such interest rate swaps and caps are recognized in current earnings. the following table summarizes certain information concerning these interest rate swaps and caps: interest rate swaps interest rate caps as of december 31, 2019 (dollars in millions) commercial customers institutional counterparties commercial customers institutional counterparties notional principal amounts $ 8,847.7 $ 8,851.8 $ 246.0 $ 246.0 weighted average interest rates: pay floating (receive fixed) 1.89% (2.53%) n/a n/a pay fixed (receive floating) 2.41% (1.89%) n/a n/a weighted average strike rate n/a n/a 3.37 % 3.37 % weighted average remaining term to maturity (in months) 83 83 25 25 fair value: recognized as an asset $ 320.5 $ 17.1 $ 1.6 $ 0.1 recognized as a liability 13.9 78.2 0.1 1.6 see notes 22 and 23 to the consolidated financial statements for further information relating to derivatives.