quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 44 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk - united's exposure to market risk associated with changes in interest rates relates primarily to its debt obligations and short-term investments. we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. our policy is to manage interest rate risk through a combination of fixed and floating rate debt and entering into swap agreements, depending upon market conditions. a portion of the borrowings is denominated in foreign currencies which exposes us to risks associated with changes in foreign exchange rates. to hedge against some of this risk, we have placed foreign currency deposits (primarily for japanese yen and euros) to meet foreign currency lease obligations designated in the respective currencies. since unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses on the foreign currency deposits are offset by the losses or gains on the foreign currency obligations, we reduce our overall exposure to foreign currency exchange rate volatility. the fair value of these deposits is determined based on the present value of future cash flows using an appropriate swap rate. the fair value of long-term debt is based on the quoted market prices for the same or similar issues or the present value of future cash flows using a u.s. treasury rate that matches the remaining life of the instrument, adjusted by a credit spread. (in millions) expected maturity dates 2003 2002 fair fair 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 thereafter total value total value assets cash equivalents fixed rate $1,572 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $1,572 $1,572 $ 856 $ 856 avg. interest rate 1.07% - - - - - 1.07% 1.36% variable rate $ 68 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 68 $ 68 $ 30 $ 30 avg. interest rate 1.30% - - - - - 1.30% 2.07% short term investments fixed rate $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 110 $ 110 avg. interest rate - - - - - - - 6.50% variable rate $ 78 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 78 $ 78 $ 278 $ 278 avg. interest rate 1.37% - - - - - 1.37% 1.81% lease deposits fixed rate - yen deposits $ - $ - $ - $ 49 $ 41 $ 95 $ 185 $ 207 $ 357 $ 419 avg. interest rate - - - 3.30% 3.53% 2.66% 3.02% 3.06% fixed rate - eur deposits $ 2 $ 2 $ 2 $ 71 $126 $ 276 $ 479 $ 565 $ 405 $ 480 avg. interest rate 4.59% 4.63% 4.66% 6.76% 6.69% 6.43% 6.53% 5.61% fixed rate- usd deposits $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 15 $ 15 $ 17 $ 14 $ 16 avg. interest rate - - - - - 6.49% 6.49% 6.49% long-term debt u. s. dollar denominated variable rate debt $ 663 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $663 $663 $700 $700 avg. interest rate 9.50% - - - - - 9.50% 7.75% december 31, 2003 (in millions, except average contract rates) notional average estimated amount contract rate fair value (pay)/receive interest rate swap $ 130 7.56% $ (29) december 31, 2002 (in millions, except average contract rates) notional average estimated amount contract rate fair value (pay)/receive interest rate swap $ 130 7.56% $ (27)quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk - united's exposure to market risk associated with changes in interest rates relates primarily to its debt obligations (including capital leases) and short-term investments. we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. our policy is to manage interest rate risk through a combination of fixed and floating rate debt and entering into swap agreements, depending upon market conditions. a portion of our borrowings is denominated in foreign currencies that expose us to risks associated with changes in foreign exchange rates. to hedge against some of this risk, we have placed foreign currency deposits (primarily for euros) to meet foreign currency lease obligations designated in the respective currencies. since unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses on the foreign currency deposits are offset by the losses or gains on the foreign currency obligations, we reduce our overall exposure to foreign currency exchange rate volatility. the fair value of these deposits is determined based on the present value of future cash flows using an appropriate swap rate. the fair value of long-term debt is based on the quoted market prices for the same or similar issues or the present value of future cash flows using a u.s. treasury rate that matches the remaining life of the instrument, adjusted by a credit spread. (in millions) expected maturity dates 2004 2003 fair fair 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 thereafter total value total value assets cash equivalents fixed rate $1,213 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $1,213 $1,213 $1,572 $1,572 avg. interest rate 2.16% - - - - - 2.16% 1.07% variable rate $ 10 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 10 $ 10 $ 68 $ 68 avg. interest rate 2.85% - - - - - 2.85% 1.30% short term investments fixed rate $ 78 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 78 $ 78 $ - $ - avg. interest rate 2.01% - - - - - 2.01% - variable rate $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 78 $ 78 avg. interest rate - - - - - - - 1.37% lease deposits fixed rate - yen deposits $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 185 $ 207 avg. interest rate - - - - - - - 3.02% fixed rate - eur deposits $ 3 $ 3 $ 77 $ 136 $ 22 $ 284 $ 525 $614 $ 479 $ 565 avg. interest rate 4.63% 4.66% 5.42% 4.93% 4.34% 7.86% 6.56% 6.53% fixed rate- usd deposits $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 15 $ 15 $18 $ 15 $ 17 avg. interest rate - - - - - 6.49% 6.49% 6.49% long-term debt u. s. dollar denominated variable rate debt $ 863 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $863 $863 $663 $663 avg. interest rate 8.00% - - - - - 8.00% 9.50% fixed rate debt $ 12 $ 13 $ 14 $ 15 $ 3 $ 109 $166 $166 - - avg. interest rate 7.15% 7.15% 7.15% 7.15% 7.15% 7.15% 7.15% - december 31, 2004 (in millions, except average contract rates) notional average estimated amount contract rate fair value (pay)/receive 1 interest rate swap (note 17) $ 130 7.56% $ (29) 1 estimated fair values represent the amount united would pay/receive on december 31, 2004 or december 31, 2003 to terminate the contracts. december 31, 2003 (in millions, except average contract rates) notional average estimated amount contract rate fair value (pay)/receive 1 interest rate swap (note 17) $ 130 7.56% $ (29) price risk (aircraft fuel) - - when market conditions indicate risk reduction is achievable, united enters into fuel option contracts to reduce its price risk exposure to jet fuel. the option contracts are designed to provide protection against sharp increases in the price of aircraft fuel. as market conditions change, so may united's hedging program. during the second quarter of 2004, we began hedging future aircraft fuel purchases for 2004 and beyond. december 31, 2004 (in millions, except average contract rates) notional average estimated amount contract rate fair value (pay)/receive 2 purchased call options - heating oil $ 310 $ 1.27/gal $ 3 sold put options - heating oil (235) 1.08/gal - 2 estimated fair values represent the amount united would pay/receive on december 31, 2004 to terminate the contracts.risk factors 17 risk factors. the following risk factors should be read carefully when evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other statements we or our representatives make from time to time. any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, our operating results, our financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. risks related to our business continued periods of historically high fuel costs or significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. our operating results have been and continue to be significantly impacted by changes in the availability or price of aircraft fuel. previous record-high fuel prices increased substantially in 2005 as compared with 2004. we at times have not been able to increase our fares when fuel prices have risen due to the highly competitive nature of the airline industry, and we may not be able to do so in the future. although we are currently able to obtain adequate supplies of aircraft fuel, it is impossible to predict the future availability or price of aircraft fuel. in addition, from time to time we enter into hedging arrangements to protect against rising fuel costs. our ability to hedge in the future, however, may be limited due to market conditions and other factors. additional terrorist attacks or the fear of such attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, could negatively affect us and the airline industry. the terrorist attacks of september 11, 2001 involving commercial aircraft severely and adversely affected our financial condition and results of operations, as well as prospects for the airline industry generally. among the effects we experienced from the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks were substantial flight disruption costs caused by the faa-imposed temporary grounding of the u.s. airline industry's fleet, significantly increased security costs and associated passenger inconvenience, increased insurance costs, substantially higher ticket refunds and significantly decreased traffic and passenger revenue per rpm ("yield"). additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of or the precautions taken in anticipation of such attacks (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights) could materially and adversely affect us and the airline industry. the war in iraq and additional international hostilities could also potentially have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. our financial resources might not be sufficient to absorb the adverse effects of any further terrorist attacks or an increase in post-war unrest in iraq or other international hostilities involving the united states. the airline industry is highly competitive and susceptible to price discounting. the u.s. airline industry is characterized by substantial price competition, especially in domestic markets. some of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources or lower-cost structures than we do, or both. in recent years, the market share held by lccs has increased significantly. for the last several years, large network carriers like united have generally had a lack of pricing power in domestic markets. in addition, northwest, delta and several small u.s. competitors have recently filed to reorganize under bankruptcy protection. other carriers could file for bankruptcy or threaten to do so to reduce their costs. carriers operating under bankruptcy protection can operate in a manner that could be adverse to us and could emerge from bankruptcy as more vigorous competitors. additional security requirements may increase our costs and decrease our traffic. since september 11, 2001, the dhs and the tsa have implemented numerous security measures that affect airline operations and costs, and are likely to implement additional measures in the future. in addition, foreign governments have also begun to institute additional security measures at foreign airports we serve. a substantial portion of the costs of these security measures is borne by the airlines and their passengers, increasing our costs and/or reducing our revenue. security measures imposed by the u.s. and foreign governments after september 11, 2001 have increased our costs and may adversely affect us and our financial results, and additional measures taken in the future may result in similar adverse effects. extensive government regulation could increase our operating costs and restrict our ability to conduct our business. airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements that result in significant costs. in addition to the enactment of the aviation security act, laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce airline revenue. the faa from time to time also issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require significant expenditures by the company. we expect to continue incurring expenses to comply with the regulations of the faa and other agencies. additionally, we operate under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued by the dot. if the dot altered, amended, modified, suspended or revoked our certificate, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. many aspects of our operations are also subject to increasingly stringent federal, state and local laws protecting the environment. future regulatory developments in the u.s. and abroad could adversely affect operations and increase operating costs in the airline industry. for example, potential future actions that may be taken by the u.s. government, foreign governments, or the international civil aviation organization to limit the emission of greenhouse gases by the aviation sector are unknown at this time, but the impact to us and our industry is likely to be adverse and could be significant. the ability of u.s. carriers to operate international routes is subject to change because the applicable arrangements between the united states and foreign governments may be amended from time to time, or because appropriate slots or facilities may not be made available. we cannot provide any assurance that current laws and regulations, or laws or regulations enacted in the future, will not adversely affect us. our results of operations fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors associated with the airline industry. our future financial condition and results of operations will be further affected by the adoption of fresh start accounting; and by the future resolution of bankruptcy-related contingencies. due to greater demand for air travel during the summer months, revenue in the airline industry in the second and third quarters of the year is generally stronger than revenue in the first and fourth quarters of the year. our results of operations generally reflect this seasonality, but have also been impacted by numerous other factors that are not necessarily seasonal, including among others excise and similar taxes, extreme or severe weather, air traffic control delays and general economic conditions. as a result, our quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year, and historical operating results are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. as a result of our bankruptcy reorganization, we are subject to the adoption of fresh start accounting as prescribed by generally accepted accounting principles ("gaap"). as required by fresh start accounting, our assets and liabilities will be adjusted to fair value, and certain assets and liabilities not previously recognized in the company's financial statements will be recognized under fresh start accounting. because we completed our reorganization and adopted fresh start accounting on february 1, 2006, our reported assets and liabilities at december 31, 2005 do not yet give effect to the adjustments that will result from the adoption of fresh start accounting and, as a result, will change materially. accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations from and after the effective date will not be comparable to the financial condition and results of operations reflected in our historical consolidated financial statements. for further information about fresh start accounting, see note 20, "pro forma fresh start balance sheet - (unaudited)" in the notes to consolidated financial statements. additionally, despite our exit from bankruptcy on february 1, 2006, several significant matters remain to be resolved in connection with our reorganization under chapter 11 of the united states bankruptcy code. unfavorable resolution of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business. for additional detail regarding these matters, see note 1, "voluntary reorganization under chapter 11- bankruptcy considerations" in the notes to consolidated financial statements . union disputes, employee strikes and other labor-related disruptions may adversely affect our operations. approximately 80% of the employees of ual are represented for collective bargaining purposes by u.s. labor unions. these employees are organized into seven labor groups represented by seven different unions. relations between air carriers and labor unions in the united states are governed by the rla. under the rla, a carrier must maintain the existing terms and conditions of employment following the amendable date through a multi-stage and usually lengthy series of bargaining processes overseen by the national mediation board. this process continues until either the parties have reached agreement on a new cba, or the parties are released to "self-help" by the national mediation board. although in most circumstances the rla prohibits strikes, shortly after release by the national mediation board carriers and unions are free to engage in self-help measures such as strikes and lock-outs. none of our u.s. labor agreements become amendable until january 1, 2010. there is also a risk that disgruntled employees, either with or without union involvement, could engage in illegal slow-downs, work stoppages, partial work stoppages, sick-outs or other actions short of a full strike that could individually or collectively harm the operation of the airline and impair its financial performance. increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage may adversely impact our operations and financial results. the terrorist attacks of september 11, 2001 led to a significant increase in insurance premiums and a decrease in the insurance coverage available to commercial airlines. accordingly, our insurance costs increased significantly and our ability to continue to obtain certain types of insurance remains uncertain. we have obtained third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance through a special program administered by the faa, resulting in lower premiums than if we had obtained this insurance in the commercial insurance market. should the government discontinue this coverage, obtaining comparable coverage from commercial underwriters could result in substantially higher premiums and more restrictive terms, if it is available at all. if we are unable to obtain adequate war risk insurance, our business could be materially and adversely affected. if any of our aircraft were to be involved in an accident, we could be exposed to significant tort liability. the insurance we carry to cover damages arising from any future accidents may be inadequate. in the event that our insurance is not adequate, we may be forced to bear substantial losses from an accident. in addition, any accident involving an aircraft that we operate could create a public perception that our aircraft are not safe or reliable, which could harm our reputation, result in decreased customer traffic and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. we rely heavily on automated systems to operate our business and any significant failure of these systems could harm our business. we depend on automated systems to operate our business, including our computerized airline reservation systems, our flight operations systems, our telecommunication systems and our commercial websites, including united.com. our website and reservation systems must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver important flight information, as well as process critical financial transactions. substantial or repeated website, reservations systems or telecommunication systems failures could reduce the attractiveness of our services versus our competitors, and materially impair our ability to market our services and operate our flights. our business relies extensively on third-party providers. failure of these parties to perform as expected, or unexpected interruptions in our relationships with these providers or their provision of services to us, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we have engaged third-party service providers to perform a large number of functions that are integral to our business, such as operation of united express flights, operation of customer service call centers, provision of information technology infrastructure and services, provision of maintenance and repairs, provision of various utilities, performance of aircraft fueling operations, and many other vital functions and services. we do not directly control these third-party providers, although we do enter into agreements with many of them which define expected service performance. any of these third-party providers, however, may materially fail to meet their service performance commitments to the company. the failure of these providers to adequately perform their service obligations, or other unexpected interruptions of services, may reduce our revenues and increase our expenses, or prevent us from operating our flights and providing other services to our customers. in addition, our business and financial performance could be materially harmed if our customers believe that our services are unreliable or unsatisfactory. our high level of fixed obligations could limit our ability to fund general corporate requirements and obtain additional financing, could limit our flexibility in responding to competitive developments and could increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. we have a significant amount of financial leverage from fixed obligations, including the credit facility, aircraft lease and debt financings, leases of airport property and other facilities, and other material cash obligations. in addition, the company has pledged substantially all of its available assets as collateral to secure its various fixed obligations. our high level of fixed obligations and lack of significant unencumbered assets or a downgrade in our existing credit rating could impair our ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, and reduce our flexibility in the conduct of our business. certain of our existing indebtedness also requires the company to meet covenants and financial tests to maintain ongoing access to those borrowings. see note 9, "long-term debt" in the notes to consolidated financial statements for further details. a failure to pay our fixed costs, or other breach of our contractual obligations could result in a variety of adverse consequences, including the acceleration of our indebtedness, the withholding of credit card sale proceeds by our credit card service providers, and the exercise of other remedies by our creditors and lessors which could result in material adverse effects on our operations and financial condition. in such a situation, it is unlikely that we would be able to fulfill our obligations to repay the accelerated indebtedness, make required lease payments, or otherwise cover our fixed costs. our net operating loss carry forwards may be limited. at december 31, 2005, prior to our emergence from bankruptcy, we had estimated net operating loss carry forwards ("nols") to be $7.0 billion for federal and state income tax purposes that will expire over a five to twenty year period. the company expects that the issuance of its common stock to creditors upon emergence from bankruptcy may have the effect of increasing these nols in 2006. if we were to have a change of ownership within the meaning of section 382 of the internal revenue code, under current conditions, our annual federal nol utilization could be limited to an amount equal to our market capitalization at the time of the ownership change multiplied by the federal long-term tax exempt rate. to avoid a potential adverse effect on the company's ability to utilize its nols for federal income tax purposes after the effective date, the company's certificate of incorporation contains a "5% ownership limitation," applicable to all stockholders except the pbgc. the 5% ownership limitation remains effective until february 1, 2011. while the purpose of these transfer restrictions is to prevent a change of ownership from occurring within the meaning of section 382 of the internal revenue code (which ownership change would materially adversely affect the company's ability to utilize its nols or other tax attributes), no assurance can be given that such an ownership change will not occur, in which case the availability of the company's substantial nols and other federal income tax attributes would be significantly limited or possibly eliminated. the loss of skilled employees upon whom we depend to operate our business or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel could adversely affect our results of operations. we believe that our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified management, technical and other personnel. we may not be successful in retaining key personnel or in attracting and retaining other highly qualified personnel. any inability to retain or attract significant numbers of qualified management and other personnel could adversely affect our business. we could be adversely affected by an outbreak of a disease that affects travel behavior. an outbreak of a disease that affects travel behavior, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome ("sars") or avian flu, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. risks related to our common stock our common stock has a very limited trading history and its market price may be volatile. because our common stock began trading after the effective date on the nasdaq national market on february 2, 2006, there is very little trading history. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. certain provisions of the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws of ual may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors and may discourage takeover attempts that some of our stockholders may consider beneficial. certain provisions of the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws of ual may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if our board of directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of ual and its stockholders. these provisions are not intended to prevent a takeover, but are intended to protect and maximize the value of our stockholders' interests. while these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of our company to negotiate with our board of directors, they could enable our board of directors to prevent a transaction that some, or a majority, of our stockholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. the issuance of additional shares of our common stock, including upon conversion of our convertible preferred stock and our convertible notes, could cause dilution to the interests of our existing stockholders. in connection with our emergence from chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, we issued 5,000,000 shares of 2% convertible preferred stock. this preferred stock may be converted into shares of our common stock upon the earlier of february 1, 2008, or upon a fundamental change or change in control of the company. further, the preferred stock is mandatorily convertible 15 years from the issuance date. we also issued approximately $150 million in convertible 5% notes shortly after the effective date, and we are required to issue approximately $726 million in additional convertible notes within the first six months after the effective date. holders of these securities may convert them into shares of our common stock according to their terms. if the holders of the convertible preferred stock or the holders of the convertible notes decided to exercise their rights to convert their securities into common stock, it could cause substantial dilution to existing stockholders. for further information, see note 1 "voluntary reorganization under chapter 11 - bankruptcy considerations" in the notes to consolidated financial statements . our certificate of incorporation authorizes us up to 1 billion shares of common stock. in certain circumstances, we can issue shares of common stock without stockholder approval. in addition, our board of directors is authorized to issue additional series of up to 250 million shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders. our board of directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such series of shares of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, conversion rights, dividend rights, preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or if we liquidate, dissolve or wind up our business and other terms. if we issue preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. we are also authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, other securities convertible into either preferred stock and, in certain circumstances, common stock. in the future we may decide to raise capital through offerings of our common stock, securities convertible into our common stock, or rights to acquire these securities or our common stock. the issuance of additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock could result in dilution of existing stockholders' equity interests in us. issuances of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that such issuances could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock and we cannot predict the effect this dilution may have on the price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate risks - united's exposure to market risk associated with changes in interest rates relates primarily to its debt obligations and short-term investments. we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. our policy is to manage interest rate risk through a combination of fixed and floating rate debt and entering into swap agreements, depending upon market conditions. a portion of our borrowings is denominated in foreign currencies that expose us to risks associated with changes in foreign exchange rates. to hedge against some of this risk, we have placed foreign currency deposits (primarily for euros) to meet foreign currency lease obligations denominated in those respective currencies. since unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses on the foreign currency deposits are offset by the losses or gains on the foreign currency obligations, we reduce our overall exposure to foreign currency exchange rate volatility. the fair value of these deposits is determined based on the present value of future cash flows using an appropriate swap rate. the fair value of long-term debt is based on the quoted market prices for the same or similar issues or the present value of future cash flows using a u.s. treasury rate that matches the remaining life of the instrument, adjusted by a credit spread. (in millions) expected maturity dates 2005 2004 fair fair 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 thereafter total value total value assets cash equivalents fixed rate $ 1,761 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 1,761 $ 1,761 $ 1,213 $ 1,213 avg. interest rate 4.26% - - - - - 4.26% 2.16% variable rate $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 10 $ 10 avg. interest rate - - - - - - - - 2.85% short term investments fixed rate $ 77 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 77 $ 77 $ 78 $ 78 avg. interest rate 4.20% - - - - - 4.20% 2.01% lease deposits fixed rate - eur deposits $ 3 $ 67 $ 118 $ 19 $ 192 $ 13 $ 412 $ 518 $ 479 $ 614 accrued interest 2 10 20 4 13 - 49 46 avg. interest rate 4.66% 5.42% 4.93% 4.34% 6.66% 4.41% 6.49% 6.56% fixed rate- usd deposits $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 11 $ - $ 11 $ 19 $ 11 $ 18 accrued interest - - - - 5 - 5 4 avg. interest rate - - - - 6.49% - 6.49% 6.49% long-term debt u. s. dollar denominated variable rate debt $ 1,157 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 1,157 $ 1,157 $ 863 $ 863 avg. interest rate 8.60% - - - - - 8.60% 8.00% fixed rate debt $ 13 $ 14 $ 15 $ 4 $ 8 $ 100 $ 154 $ 149 $ 166 $ 166 avg. interest rate 7.15% 7.15% 7.15% 7.15% 7.15% 7.15% 7.15% 7.15% in the first quarter of 2006, united entered into an interest rate swap whereby it fixed the rate of interest on $2.45 billion notional value of floating-rate debt at 5.14% plus a fixed credit margin. the swap will amortize according to a pre-established schedule starting in november 2007 through its expected maturity date of february 2012. price risk (aircraft fuel) - - united enters into fuel option contracts and futures contracts to reduce its price risk exposure to jet fuel. the option contracts are designed to provide protection against sharp increases in the price of aircraft fuel. as market conditions change, so may united's hedging program.risk factors 8 risk factors. the following risk factors should be read carefully when evaluating the company's business and the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other statements the company or its representatives make from time to time. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect the company's business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. if we do not successfully execute our strategic operating plan, or if our strategic operating plan is unsuccessful, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. we have announced several strategic plans in recent years, including several revenue-generating initiatives and plans to optimize our revenue, such as our plans to add capacity, including international expansion and new or increased service to mid-size airports, and initiatives and plans to optimize and control our costs. we also continue to explore opportunities to enhance our segmentation, including the introduction of polaris, basic economy and united premium plus, and are implementing many programs and policies to improve the customer experience at all points in air travel. in developing our strategic operating plan, we make certain assumptions including, but not limited to, those related to customer demand, competition, market consolidation and the global economy. actual economic, market and other conditions may be different from our assumptions and we may not be able to successfully execute our strategic operating plan. if we do not successfully execute our strategic operating plan, or if actual results vary significantly from our assumptions, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely impacted. 8 table of contents unfavorable economic and political conditions, in the united states and globally, may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. the company's business and operating results are significantly impacted by u.s. and global economic and political conditions. the airline industry is highly cyclical, and the level of demand for air travel is correlated to the strength of the u.s. and global economies. robust demand for the company's air transportation services depends largely on favorable economic conditions, including the strength of the domestic and foreign economies, low unemployment levels, strong consumer confidence levels and the availability of consumer and business credit. air transportation is often a discretionary purchase that leisure travelers may limit or eliminate during difficult economic times. short-haul travelers, in particular, have the option to replace air travel with surface travel. in addition, during periods of unfavorable economic conditions, business travelers historically have reduced the volume of their travel, either due to cost-saving initiatives, the replacement of travel with alternatives such as videoconferencing, or as a result of decreased business activity requiring travel. during such periods, the company's business and operating results may be adversely affected due to significant declines in industry passenger demand, particularly with respect to the company's business and premium cabin travelers, and a reduction in fare levels. as a global business with operations outside of the united states from which it derives significant operating revenues, volatile conditions in certain international regions may have a negative impact on the company's operating results and its ability to achieve its business objectives. the company's international operations are a vital part of its worldwide airline network. political disruptions and instability in certain regions can negatively impact the demand and network availability for air travel. stagnant or weakening global economic conditions either in the united states or in other geographic regions may have a material adverse effect on the company's revenues, operating results and liquidity. the global airline industry is highly competitive and susceptible to price discounting and changes in capacity, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. the airline industry is highly competitive, marked by significant competition with respect to routes, fares, schedules (both timing and frequency), services, products, customer service and frequent flyer programs. consolidation in the airline industry, the rise of well-funded government sponsored international carriers, changes in international alliances and the creation of immunized jbas have altered and are expected to continue to alter the competitive landscape in the industry, resulting in the formation of airlines and alliances with increased financial resources, more extensive global networks and services and competitive cost structures. airlines also compete by increasing or decreasing their capacity, including route systems and the number of destinations served. several of the company's domestic and international competitors have increased their international capacity by including service to some destinations that the company currently serves, causing overlap in destinations served and therefore increasing competition for those destinations. this increased competition in both domestic and international markets may have a material adverse effect on the company's business, operating results and financial condition. the company's u.s. operations are subject to competition from traditional network carriers, national point-to-point carriers, and discount carriers, including low-cost carriers and ultra-low-cost carriers. such carriers may have lower costs and provide service at lower fares to destinations also served by the company. the significant presence of low-cost carriers, which engage in substantial price discounting, may diminish our ability to achieve sustained profitability on domestic and international routes. our ability to compete in the domestic market effectively depends, in part, on our ability to maintain a competitive cost structure. if we cannot maintain our costs at a competitive level, then our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. our international operations are subject to competition from both foreign and domestic carriers. competition is significant from government subsidized competitors from certain middle east countries. these carriers have large numbers of international widebody aircraft on order and are increasing service to the u.s. from their hubs in the middle east. the government support provided to these carriers has allowed them to grow quickly, reinvest in their product, invest in other airlines and expand their global presence. through alliance and other marketing and codesharing agreements with foreign carriers, u.s. carriers have increased their ability to sell international transportation, such as services to and beyond traditional european and asian gateway cities. similarly, foreign carriers have obtained increased access to interior u.s. passenger traffic beyond traditional u.s. gateway cities through these relationships. in addition, several jbas among u.s. and foreign carriers have received grants of antitrust immunity allowing the participating carriers to coordinate schedules, pricing, sales and inventory. if we are not able to continue participating in these types of alliance and other marketing and codesharing agreements in the future, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. 9 table of contents high and/or volatile fuel prices or significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a material adverse impact on the company's strategic plans, operating results, financial condition and liquidity. aircraft fuel is critical to the company's operations and is our single largest operating expense. during the year ended december 31, 2018, the company's fuel expense was $9.3 billion . the timely and adequate supply of fuel to meet operational demand depends on the continued availability of reliable fuel supply sources, as well as related service and delivery infrastructure. although the company has some ability to cover short-term fuel supply and infrastructure disruptions at some major demand locations, it depends significantly on the continued performance of its vendors and service providers to maintain supply integrity. consequently, the company can neither predict nor guarantee the continued timely availability of aircraft fuel throughout the company's system. aircraft fuel has historically been the company's most volatile operating expense due to the highly unpredictable nature of market prices for fuel. the company generally sources fuel at prevailing market prices. market prices for aircraft fuel have historically fluctuated substantially in short periods of time and continue to be highly volatile due to a dependence on a multitude of unpredictable factors beyond the company's control. these factors include changes in global crude oil prices, the balance between aircraft fuel supply and demand, natural disasters, prevailing inventory levels and fuel production and transportation infrastructure. prices of fuel are also impacted by indirect factors, such as geopolitical events, economic growth indicators, fiscal/monetary policies, fuel tax policies, changes in regulations, environmental concerns and financial investments in energy markets. both actual changes in these factors, as well as changes in market expectations of these factors, can potentially drive rapid changes in fuel price levels in short periods of time. given the highly competitive nature of the airline industry, the company may not be able to increase its fares and fees sufficiently to offset the full impact of increases in fuel prices, especially if these increases are significant, rapid and sustained. further, any such fare or fee increase may not be sustainable, may reduce the general demand for air travel and may also eventually impact the company's strategic growth and investment plans for the future. in addition, decreases in fuel prices for an extended period of time may result in increased industry capacity, increased competitive actions for market share and lower fares or surcharges in general. if fuel prices were to then subsequently rise quickly, there may be a lag between the rise in fuel prices and any improvement of the revenue environment. to protect against increases in the market prices of fuel, the company may hedge a portion of its future fuel requirements. the company does not currently hedge its future fuel requirements. however, to the extent the company decides to start a hedging program, such hedging program may not be successful in mitigating higher fuel costs, and any price protection provided may be limited due to choice of hedging instruments and market conditions, including breakdown of correlation between hedging instrument and market price of aircraft fuel and failure of hedge counterparties. to the extent that the company decides to hedge a portion of its future fuel requirements and uses hedge contracts that have the potential to create an obligation to pay upon settlement if fuel prices decline significantly, such hedge contracts may limit the company's ability to benefit fully from lower fuel costs in the future. if fuel prices decline significantly from the levels existing at the time the company enters into a hedge contract, the company may be required to post collateral (margin) beyond certain thresholds. there can be no assurance that the company's hedging arrangements, if any, will provide any particular level of protection against rises in fuel prices or that its counterparties will be able to perform under the company's hedging arrangements. additionally, deterioration in the company's financial condition could negatively affect its ability to enter into new hedge contracts in the future. the company relies heavily on technology and automated systems to operate its business and any significant failure or disruption of the technology or these systems could materially harm its business. the company depends on automated systems and technology to operate its business, including, but not limited to, computerized airline reservation systems, demand prediction software, flight operations systems, revenue management systems, accounting systems, technical and business operations systems, telecommunication systems and commercial websites and applications, including www.united.com and the united airlines app. united's website and other automated systems must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic, maintain secure information and deliver important flight and schedule information, as well as process critical financial transactions. these systems could suffer substantial or repeated disruptions due to various events, some of which are beyond the company's control, including natural disasters, power failures, terrorist attacks, equipment or software failures, computer viruses or cyber security attacks. substantial or repeated systems failures or disruptions, including failures or disruptions related to the company's complex integration of systems, could reduce the attractiveness of the company's services versus those of its competitors, materially impair its ability to market its services and operate its flights, result in the unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, result in increased costs, lost revenue and the loss or compromise of important data, and may adversely affect the company's business, operating results and financial condition. 10 table of contents the company's business relies extensively on third-party service providers, including certain technology providers. failure of these parties to perform as expected, or interruptions in the company's relationships with these providers or their provision of services to the company, could have an adverse effect on the company's business, operating results and financial condition. the company has engaged third-party service providers to perform a large number of functions that are integral to its business, including regional operations, operation of customer service call centers, distribution and sale of airline seat inventory, provision of information technology infrastructure and services, transmitting or uploading of data, provision of aircraft maintenance and repairs, provision of various utilities, performance of aircraft fueling operations and catering services, among other vital functions and services. the company does not directly control these third-party service providers, although it does enter into agreements that define expected service performance. any of these third-party service providers, however, may materially fail to meet its service performance commitments to the company or may suffer disruptions to its systems that could impact its services. for example, failures in certain third-party technology or communications systems may cause flight delays or cancellations. the failure of any of the company's third-party service providers to perform its service obligations adequately, or other interruptions of services, may reduce the company's revenues and increase its expenses, prevent the company from operating its flights and providing other services to its customers or result in adverse publicity or harm to its brand. in addition, the company's business and financial performance could be materially harmed if its customers believe that its services are unreliable or unsatisfactory. the company may also have disagreements with such providers or such contracts may be terminated or may not be extended or renewed. for example, the number of flight reservations booked through third-party gdss or online travel agents ("otas") may be adversely affected by disruptions in the business relationships between the company and these suppliers. such disruptions, including a failure to agree upon acceptable contract terms when contracts expire or otherwise become subject to renegotiation, may cause the company's flight information to be limited or unavailable for display by the affected gds or ota operator, significantly increase fees for both the company and gds/ota users and impair the company's relationships with its customers and travel agencies. any such disruptions or contract terminations may adversely impact our operations and financial results. if we are not able to negotiate or renew agreements with third-party service providers, or if we renew existing agreements on less favorable terms, our operations and financial results may be adversely affected. the company could experience adverse publicity, harm to its brand, reduced travel demand and potential tort liability as a result of an accident, catastrophe or incident involving its aircraft or its operations, the aircraft or operations of its regional carriers, the aircraft or operations of its codeshare partners, or the aircraft or operations of another airline, which may result in a material adverse effect on the company's business, operating results and financial condition. an accident, catastrophe or incident involving an aircraft that the company operates, or an aircraft that is operated by a codeshare partner, one of the company's regional carriers or another airline, or an incident involving the company's operations, or the operations of a codeshare partner, one of the company's regional carriers or of another airline, could have a material adverse effect on the company if such accident, catastrophe or incident created a public perception that the company's operations, or the operations of its codeshare partners or regional carriers, are not safe or reliable, or are less safe or reliable than other airlines. such public perception could, in turn, result in adverse publicity for the company, cause harm to the company's brand and reduce travel demand on the company's flights, or the flights of its codeshare partners or regional carriers. in addition, any such accident, catastrophe or incident involving the company, its regional carriers or its codeshare partners could expose the company to significant tort liability. although the company currently maintains liability insurance in amounts and of the type the company believes to be consistent with industry practice to cover damages arising from any such accident, catastrophe or incident, and the company's codeshare partners and regional carriers carry similar insurance and generally indemnify the company for their operations, if the company's liability exceeds the applicable policy limits or the ability of another carrier to indemnify it, the company could incur substantial losses from an accident, catastrophe or incident which may result in a material adverse effect on the company's operating results and financial condition. terrorist attacks, international hostilities or other security events, or the fear of terrorist attacks or hostilities, even if not made directly on the airline industry, could negatively affect the company and the airline industry. terrorist attacks or international hostilities, even if not made on or targeted directly at the airline industry, or the fear of or the precautions taken in anticipation of such attacks (including elevated national threat warnings, travel restrictions, selective cancellation or redirection of flights and new security regulations) could materially and adversely affect the company and the airline industry. security events pose a significant risk to our passenger and cargo operations. these events could include acts of violence in public areas that we cannot control. the company's financial resources may not be sufficient to absorb the 11 table of contents adverse effects of any future terrorist attacks, international hostilities or other security events. any such events could have a material adverse impact on the company's financial condition, liquidity and operating results. increasing privacy and data security obligations or a significant data breach may adversely affect the company's business. the company is subject to increasing legislative, regulatory and customer focus on privacy issues and data security. also, a number of the company's commercial partners, including credit card companies, have imposed data security standards that the company must meet. these standards continue to evolve. the company will continue its efforts to meet its privacy and data security obligations; however, it is possible that certain new obligations may be difficult to meet and could increase the company's costs. additionally, the company must manage evolving cybersecurity risks. our network systems and storage applications, and those systems and storage and other business applications maintained by our third-party providers, may be subject to attempts to gain unauthorized access, breach, malfeasance or other system disruptions. in some cases, it is difficult to anticipate or to detect immediately such incidents and the damage caused thereby. while we continually work to safeguard our internal network systems and validate the security of our third-party providers, including through information security policies and employee awareness and training, there is no assurance that such actions will be sufficient to prevent cyber-attacks or security breaches. the loss, disclosure, misappropriation of or access to customers', employees' or business partners' information or the company's failure to meet its obligations could result in legal claims or proceedings, penalties and remediation costs. a significant data breach or the company's failure to meet its obligations may adversely affect the company's reputation, business, operating results and financial condition. disruptions to our regional network and united express flights provided by third-party regional carriers could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. the company has contractual relationships with various regional carriers to provide regional aircraft service branded as united express. these regional operations are an extension of the company's mainline network and complement the company's operations by carrying traffic that connects to mainline service and allows flights to smaller cities that cannot be provided economically with mainline aircraft. the company's business and operations are dependent on its regional flight network, with regional capacity accounting for approximately 11% of the company's total capacity for the year ended december 31, 2018 . although the company has agreements with its regional carriers that include contractually agreed performance metrics, each regional carrier is a separately certificated commercial air carrier and the company does not control the operations of these carriers. a number of factors may impact the company's regional network, including weather-related effects and seasonality. in addition, the decrease in qualified pilots driven by changes to federal regulations has adversely impacted and could continue to affect the company's regional flying. for example, the faa's expansion of minimum pilot qualification standards, including a requirement that a pilot have at least 1,500 total flight hours, as well as the faa's revised pilot flight and duty time requirements under part 117 of the federal aviation regulations, have contributed to a smaller supply of pilots available to regional carriers. the decrease in qualified pilots resulting from the regulations as well as factors including a decreased student pilot population and a shrinking u.s. military from which to hire qualified pilots, could adversely impact the company's operations and financial condition, and could also require the company to reduce regional carrier flying. if a significant disruption occurs to the company's regional network or flights or if one or more of the regional carriers with which the company has relationships is unable to perform their obligations over an extended period of time, there could be a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and operating results. current or future litigation and regulatory actions, or failure to comply with the terms of any settlement, order or arrangement relating to these actions, could have a material adverse impact on the company. from time to time, we are subject to litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings relating to our business or investigations or other actions by governmental agencies, including as described in part i, item 3, legal proceedings, of this report. no assurances can be given that the results of these or new matters will be favorable to us. an adverse resolution of lawsuits, arbitrations, investigations or other proceedings or actions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results, including as a result of non-monetary remedies, and could also result in adverse publicity. defending ourselves in these matters may be time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations and may result in significant expense and a diversion of management's time and attention from the operation of our business, which could impede our ability to achieve our business objectives. additionally, any amount that we may be required to pay to satisfy a judgment, settlement, fine or penalty may not be covered by insurance. if we fail to comply with the terms contained in any settlement, order or agreement with a governmental authority relating to these matters, we could be subject to criminal or civil penalties, which could have a material adverse impact on the company. under our charter and certain indemnification agreements that we have entered into (and may in the future enter into) with our officers, directors and certain third parties, we 12 table of contents could be required to indemnify and advance expenses to them in connection with their involvement in certain actions, suits, investigations and other proceedings. there can be no assurance that any of these payments will not be material. our significant investments in other airlines, including in other parts of the world, and the commercial relationships that we have with those carriers may not produce the returns or results we expect. an important part of our strategy to expand our global network includes making significant investments in airlines in other parts of the world and expanding our commercial relationships with these carriers. for example, in november 2018, united entered into a revenue-sharing joint business agreement with avianca, copa and several of their respective affiliates, subject to regulatory approval. concurrently with this transaction, united advanced a loan of $456 million to affiliates of synergy aerospace corporation ("synergy"), the majority shareholder of avianca holdings s.a. ("avh"), the parent company of avianca, and entered into certain other related agreements, including a put arrangement with avianca's significant minority shareholder, kingsland holdings limited ("kingsland"). the loan is secured by a pledge of synergy's equity and synergy's shares of avh stock, and the loan and other agreements contain several provisions whereby the company may acquire avh stock. we also have an equity investment in azul. see note 9 to the financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this report for additional information regarding our investments in avianca and azul. we also have investments in several domestic regional airlines. in january 2019, we completed the acquisition of a 49.9% interest in manaair llc, which, as of immediately following the closing of that investment, owns 100% of the equity interests in expressjet airlines, inc., a domestic regional airline. we also have minority equity interests in commutair and republic airways holdings, inc. see note 9 to the financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this report for additional information regarding our investments in regional airlines. we expect to continue exploring similar non-controlling investments in, and entering into jbas, commercial agreements, loan transactions and strategic alliances with, other carriers as part of our regional and global business strategy. these transactions and relationships involve significant challenges and risks. we are dependent on these other carriers for significant aspects of our network in the regions in which they operate. while we work closely with these carriers, each is a separately certificated commercial air carrier and we do not have control over their operations, strategy, management or business methods. these airlines also are subject to a number of the same risks as our business, which are described in this item 1a., risk factors, including competitive pressures on pricing, demand and capacity; changes in aircraft fuel pricing; and the impact of global and local political and economic conditions on operations and customer travel patterns, among others. as a result of these and other factors, we may not realize a satisfactory return on our investment, and we may not receive repayment of any invested or loaned funds. further, these investments may not generate the revenue or operational synergies we expect, and they may distract management focus from our operations or other strategic options. finally, our reliance on these other carriers in the regions in which they operate may negatively impact our regional and global operations and results if those carriers are impacted by general business risks or perform below our expectations or needs. any one or more of these events could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. we may also be subject to consequences from any improper behavior of jba partners, including for failure to comply with anti-corruption laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act. furthermore, our relationships with these carriers may be subject to the laws and regulations of non-u.s. jurisdictions in which these carriers are located or conduct business. any political or regulatory change in these jurisdictions that negatively impact or prohibit our arrangements with these carriers could have an adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. to the extent that the operations of any of these carriers are disrupted over an extended period of time or their actions subject us to the consequences of failure to comply with laws and regulations, our operating results may be adversely affected. the airline industry may undergo further change with respect to alliances and jbas or due to consolidations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the company. the company faces and may continue to face strong competition from other carriers due to the modification of alliances and formation of new jbas. carriers may improve their competitive positions through airline alliances, slot swaps and/or jbas. certain types of airline jbas further competition by allowing multiple airlines to coordinate routes, pool revenues and costs, and enjoy other mutual benefits, achieving many of the benefits of consolidation. open skies agreements, including the longstanding agreements between the united states and each of the eu, canada, japan, korea, new zealand, australia, colombia and panama, as well as the more recent agreements between the united states and each of mexico and brazil, may also give rise to better integration opportunities among international carriers. movement of airlines between current global airline alliances could reduce joint network coverage for members of such alliances while also creating opportunities for jbas and bilateral alliances that did not exist before such realignment. further airline and airline alliance consolidations or reorganizations could occur in the future. the company routinely engages in analyses and discussions regarding its own strategic position, including current and potential alliances, asset acquisitions and divestitures and may have future discussions 13 table of contents with other airlines regarding strategic activities. if other airlines participate in such activities, those airlines may significantly improve their cost structures or revenue generation capabilities, thereby potentially making them stronger competitors of the company and potentially impairing the company's ability to realize expected benefits from its own strategic relationships. orders for new aircraft typically must be placed years in advance of scheduled deliveries, and changes in the company's network strategy over time may make aircraft on order less economic for the company, result in costs related to modification or termination of aircraft orders or cause the company to enter into orders for new aircraft on less favorable terms. the company's orders for new aircraft are typically made years in advance of actual delivery of such aircraft, and the financial commitment required for purchases of new aircraft is substantial. at december 31, 2018 , the company had firm commitments to purchase 273 new aircraft from the boeing company ("boeing"), airbus s.a.s ("airbus") and embraer s.a. ("embraer"), as well as related agreements with engine manufacturers, maintenance providers and others. as of december 31, 2018 , the company's commitments relating to the acquisition of aircraft and related spare engines, aircraft improvements and other related obligations aggregated to a total of $24.7 billion . subsequent to the company placing an order for new aircraft, the company's network strategy may change. as a result, the company's preference for a particular aircraft that it has ordered, often years in advance, may be decreased or eliminated. if the company were to modify or terminate any of its existing aircraft order commitments, it may be responsible for material liabilities to its counterparties arising from any such change. additionally, the company may have a need for additional aircraft that are not available under its existing orders. in such cases, the company may seek to acquire aircraft from other sources, such as through lease arrangements, which may result in higher costs or less favorable terms, or through the purchase or lease of used aircraft. the company may not be able to acquire such aircraft when needed on favorable terms or at all. a majority of the company's aircraft and certain parts are sourced from single suppliers; therefore, the company would be materially and adversely affected if it were unable to obtain additional equipment or support from any of these suppliers. the company currently sources the majority of its aircraft and many related aircraft parts from boeing. in addition, our aircraft suppliers are dependent on other suppliers for certain other aircraft parts. therefore, if the company was unable to acquire additional aircraft from boeing, or if boeing was unable or unwilling to make timely deliveries of aircraft or to provide adequate support for its products, the company's operations could be materially and adversely affected. the company is also dependent on a limited number of suppliers for aircraft engines and certain other aircraft parts and could therefore also be materially and adversely affected in the event of the unavailability of these engines and other parts. union disputes, employee strikes or slowdowns, and other labor-related disruptions could adversely affect the company's operations and could result in increased costs that impair its financial performance. united is a highly unionized company. as of december 31, 2018 , the company and its subsidiaries had approximately 92,000 active employees, of whom approximately 83% were represented by various u.s. labor organizations. there is a risk that unions or individual employees might pursue judicial or arbitral claims arising out of changes implemented as a result of the company entering into collective bargaining agreements with its represented employee groups. there is also a possibility that employees or unions could engage in job actions such as slowdowns, work-to-rule campaigns, sick-outs or other actions designed to disrupt the company's normal operations, in an attempt to pressure the company in collective bargaining negotiations. although the rla makes such actions unlawful until the parties have been lawfully released to self-help, and the company can seek injunctive relief against premature self-help, such actions can cause significant harm even if ultimately enjoined. in addition, collective bargaining agreements with the company's represented employee groups increase the company's labor costs, which increase could be material for any applicable reporting period. an outbreak of a disease or similar public health threat could have a material adverse impact on the company's business, operating results and financial condition. an outbreak of a disease or similar public health threat that affects travel demand, travel behavior, or travel restrictions could have a material adverse impact on the company's business, financial condition and operating results. if we experience changes in, or are unable to retain, our senior management team or other key employees, our operating results could be adversely affected. much of our future success depends on the continued availability of skilled personnel with industry experience and knowledge, including our senior management team and other key employees. if we are unable to attract and retain talented, highly qualified senior management and other key employees, or if we are unable to effectively provide for the succession of senior management, our business may be adversely affected. 14 table of contents extended interruptions or disruptions in service at major airports where we operate could have a material adverse impact on our operations. the airline industry is heavily dependent on business models that concentrate operations in major airports in the united states and throughout the world. an extended interruption or disruption at an airport where we have significant operations could have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. we operate principally through our domestic hubs in at newark, chicago o'hare, denver, houston bush, lax, guam, sfo and washington dulles. substantially all of our flights either originate in or fly into one of these locations. a significant interruption or disruption in service at one of our hubs or other airports where we have a significant presence resulting from atc delays, weather conditions, natural disasters, growth constraints, relations with third-party service providers, failure of computer systems, disruptions to government agencies or personnel, disruptions at airport facilities or other key facilities used by us to manage our operations, labor relations, power supplies, fuel supplies, terrorist activities, international hostilities or otherwise could result in the cancellation or delay of a significant portion of our flights and, as a result, could have a material impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. we have minimal control over the operation, quality or maintenance of these services or whether vendors will improve or continue to provide services that are essential to our business. the airline industry is subject to extensive government regulation, which imposes significant costs and may adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal oversight. compliance with u.s. and international regulations imposes significant costs and may have adverse effects on the company. laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges, both domestically and internationally, have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce airline revenue. united provides air transportation under certificates of public convenience and necessity issued by the dot. if the dot altered, amended, modified, suspended or revoked these certificates, it could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the faa regulates the safety of united's operations. united operates pursuant to an air carrier operating certificate issued by the faa. the faa's regulations include stringent pilot flight and duty time requirements under part 117 of the federal aviation regulations, as well as minimum qualifications for air carrier first officers. these regulations have caused mainline airlines to hire regional pilots, while simultaneously significantly reducing the pool of new pilots from which regional carriers themselves can hire. although this is an industry issue, it directly affects the company and has required it to reduce regional partner flying, as several regional partners have experienced difficulty flying their schedules due to reduced pilot availability. from time to time, the faa also issues orders, airworthiness directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require material expenditures or operational restrictions by the company. these faa orders and directives could include the temporary grounding of an entire aircraft type if the faa identifies design, manufacturing, maintenance or other issues requiring immediate corrective action. these faa directives or requirements could have a material adverse effect on the company. in 2018, the u.s. congress approved a five-year reauthorization for the faa, which encompasses significant aviation tax and policy-related issues. the law includes a range of policy changes related to airline customer service and aviation safety which, depending on how they are implemented, could impact our operations and costs. additionally, the u.s. congress may fail to continue to fund the operations of one or more federal government agencies which could negatively impact the company and the airline industry. the company's operations may also be adversely impacted due to the existing antiquated atc system utilized by the u.s. government and regulated by the faa. during peak travel periods in certain markets, the current atc system's inability to handle demand has led to short-term capacity constraints imposed by government agencies and resulted in delays and disruptions of air traffic. in addition, the current system will not be able to effectively handle projected future air traffic growth. the outdated technologies also cause the atc to be less resilient in the event of a failure, causing flight cancellations and delays. imposition of these atc constraints on a long-term basis may have a material adverse effect on the company's operations. failure to update the atc system in a timely manner, and the substantial funding requirements of a modernized atc system that may be imposed on air carriers may have an adverse impact on the company's financial condition or operating results. access to landing and take-off rights, or "slots," at several major u.s. airports and many foreign airports served by the company are, or recently have been, subject to government regulation. certain of the company's major hubs are among the most congested airports in the united states and have been or could be the subject of regulatory action that might limit the number of flights and/or increase costs of operations at certain times or throughout the day. the faa may limit the company's 15 table of contents airport access by limiting the number of departure and arrival slots at high density traffic airports, which could affect the company's ownership and transfer rights, and local airport authorities may have the ability to control access to certain facilities or the cost of access to their facilities, which could have an adverse effect on the company's business. the faa historically has taken actions with respect to airlines' slot holdings that airlines have challenged; if the faa were to take actions that adversely affect the company's slot holdings, the company could incur substantial costs to preserve its slots or may lose slots. if slots are eliminated at an airport, or if the number of hours of operation governed by slots is reduced at an airport, the lack of controls on takeoffs and landings could result in greater congestion both at the affected airport or in the regional airspace (e.g., the new york city metropolitan region airspace) and could significantly impact the company's operations. further, the company's operating costs at airports, including the company's major hubs, may increase significantly because of capital improvements at such airports that the company may be required to fund, directly or indirectly. such costs could be imposed by the relevant airport authority without the company's approval and may have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition. the ability of carriers to operate flights on international routes between the united states and other countries is highly regulated. applicable arrangements between the united states and foreign governments may be amended from time to time, government policies with respect to airport operations may be revised, and the availability of appropriate slots or facilities may change. the company currently operates a number of flights on international routes under government arrangements, regulations or policies that designate the number of carriers permitted to operate on such routes, the capacity of the carriers providing services on such routes, the airports at which carriers may operate international flights, or the number of carriers allowed access to particular airports. any limitations, additions or modifications to such arrangements, regulations or policies could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition and operating results. additionally, a change in law, regulation or policy for any of the company's international routes, such as open skies, could have a material adverse impact on the company's financial condition and operating results and could result in the impairment of material amounts of related tangible and intangible assets. in addition, competition from revenue-sharing jbas and other alliance arrangements by and among other airlines could impair the value of the company's business and assets on the open skies routes. the company's plans to enter into or expand u.s. antitrust immunized alliances and jbas on various international routes are subject to receipt of approvals from applicable u.s. federal authorities and obtaining other applicable foreign government clearances or satisfying the necessary applicable regulatory requirements. there can be no assurance that such approvals and clearances will be granted or will continue in effect upon further regulatory review or that changes in regulatory requirements or standards can be satisfied. see part i, item 1, business industry regulation, of this report for additional information on government regulation impacting the company. we are subject to many forms of environmental regulation and liability and risks associated with climate change, and may incur substantial costs as a result. many aspects of the company's operations are subject to increasingly stringent federal, state, local and international laws protecting the environment, including those relating to emissions to the air, water discharges, safe drinking water and the use and management of hazardous materials and wastes. compliance with existing and future environmental laws and regulations can require significant expenditures and violations can lead to significant fines and penalties. in addition, from time to time we are identified as a responsible party for environmental investigation and remediation costs under applicable environmental laws due to the disposal of hazardous substances generated by our operations. we could also be subject to environmental liability claims from various parties, including airport authorities, related to our operations at our leased premises or the off-site disposal of waste generated at our facilities. we may incur substantial costs as a result of changes in weather patterns due to climate change. increases in the frequency, severity or duration of severe weather events such as thunderstorms, hurricanes, flooding, typhoons, tornados and other severe weather events could result in increases in delays and cancellations, turbulence-related injuries and fuel consumption to avoid such weather, any of which could result in significant loss of revenue and higher costs. to address climate change risks, corsia has been developed by icao, a un specialized agency. corsia is intended to create a single global market-based measure to achieve carbon-neutral growth for international aviation after 2020 through airline purchases of carbon offset credits. certain corsia program details remain to be developed and could potentially be affected by political developments in participating countries or the results of the pilot phase of the program, and thus the impact of corsia cannot be fully predicted. however, corsia is expected to increase operating costs for airlines that operate internationally. in addition to corsia, the epa had begun preliminary work to adopt its own aircraft engine ghg emission standards which were expected to be aligned with recent icao carbon dioxide emission standards. the timing of any u.s. epa aircraft engine ghg emission standards is currently unknown, but some jurisdictions in which united operates have adopted or are considering ghg emission reduction initiatives, which could impact various aspects of the company's business. the precise 16 table of contents nature of future requirements and their applicability to the company are difficult to predict, but the financial impact to the company and the aviation industry would likely be adverse and could be significant. see part i, item 1, business-industry regulation-environmental regulation, of this report for additional information on environmental regulation impacting the company. the united kingdom's withdrawal from the eu may adversely impact our operations in the united kingdom and elsewhere. in june 2016, united kingdom ("uk") voters approved an advisory referendum for the uk to exit the eu. the uk parliament voted in favor of allowing the government to commence negotiations to determine the future terms of the uk's relationship with the eu, including the terms of trade between the uk and the eu and other nations. the timing of the proposed exit is currently scheduled for march 29, 2019, with a transition period potentially running through december 2020. a withdrawal plan was presented to the uk parliament in january 2019 and rejected, creating further uncertainty in negotiations and the process of withdrawal. depending on the outcome of these negotiations, we could face new challenges in our operations, such as instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets. this instability could include volatility in the value of the british pound and european euro, additional travel restrictions on passengers traveling between the uk and other eu countries, changes to the legal status of eu-resident employees, legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations. at this time, we cannot predict the impact that an actual exit from the eu will have on our business generally and our uk and european operations more specifically, and no assurance can be given that our operating results, financial condition and prospects would not be adversely impacted by the result. the company's operating results fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors associated with the airline industry, many of which are beyond the company's control. due to greater demand for air travel during the spring and summer months, revenues in the airline industry in the second and third quarters of the year are generally stronger than revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year, which are periods of lower travel demand. the company's operating results generally reflect this seasonality, but have also been impacted by numerous other factors that are not necessarily seasonal, including, among others, extreme or severe weather, outbreaks of disease or pandemics, atc congestion, geological events, political instability, terrorism, natural disasters, changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation, tax obligations, general economic conditions and other factors. as a result, the company's quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year and historical operating results in a quarterly or annual period are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. increases in insurance costs or inadequate insurance coverage may materially and adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. the company could be exposed to significant liability or loss if its property or operations were to be affected by a natural catastrophe or other event, including aircraft accidents. the company maintains insurance policies, including, but not limited to, terrorism, aviation hull and liability, workers' compensation and property and business interruption insurance, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. if the company is unable to obtain sufficient insurance with acceptable terms, the costs of such insurance increase materially, or if the coverage obtained is insufficient relative to actual liability or losses that the company experiences, whether due to insurance market conditions, policy limitations and exclusions or otherwise, its operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. the company has a significant amount of financial leverage from fixed obligations, and insufficient liquidity may have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition and business. the company has a significant amount of financial leverage from fixed obligations, including aircraft lease and debt financings, leases of airport property and other facilities, and other material cash obligations. in addition, the company has substantial noncancelable commitments for capital expenditures, including for the acquisition of new aircraft and related spare engines. although the company's cash flows from operations and its available capital, including the proceeds from financing transactions, have been sufficient to meet these obligations and commitments to date, the company's future liquidity could be negatively affected by the risk factors discussed in this report. if the company's liquidity is materially diminished, the company might not be able to timely pay its leases and debts or comply with certain operating and financial covenants under its financing and credit card processing agreements or with other material provisions of its contractual obligations. the company's substantial level of indebtedness and non-investment grade credit rating, as well as market conditions and the availability of assets as collateral for loans or other indebtedness, may make it difficult for the company to raise additional capital if needed to meet its liquidity needs on acceptable terms, or at all. in addition, our variable rate indebtedness may use 17 table of contents london interbank offered rates ("libor") as a benchmark for establishing the rate. as announced in july 2017, libor is expected to be phased out by the end of 2021. uncertainty as to the nature of alternative reference rates and as to potential changes or other reforms to libor may adversely impact the availability and cost of borrowings. see part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, of this report for additional information regarding the company's liquidity. agreements governing our debt include financial and other covenants. failure to comply with these covenants could result in events of default. our financing agreements include various financial and other covenants. certain of these covenants require ual or united, as applicable, to maintain minimum liquidity and/or minimum collateral coverage ratios. ual's or united's ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond its control, including the overall industry revenue environment, the level of fuel costs and the appraised value of the collateral. in addition, our financing agreements contain other negative covenants customary for such financings. these covenants are subject to important exceptions and qualifications. if we fail to comply with these covenants and are unable to remedy or obtain a waiver or amendment, an event of default would result. if an event of default were to occur, the lenders could, among other things, declare outstanding amounts due and payable. in addition, an event of default or declaration of acceleration under one financing agreement could also result in an event of default under other of our financing agreements due to cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions. the acceleration of significant amounts of debt could require us to renegotiate, repay or refinance the obligations under our financing arrangements. the company may never realize the full value of its intangible assets or its long-lived assets causing it to record impairments that may negatively affect its financial condition and operating results. in accordance with applicable accounting standards, the company is required to test its indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently where there is an indication of impairment. in addition, the company is required to test certain of its other assets for impairment where there is any indication that an asset may be impaired. the company may be required to recognize losses in the future due to, among other factors, extreme fuel price volatility, tight credit markets, government regulatory changes, decline in the fair values of certain tangible or intangible assets, such as aircraft, route authorities, airport slots and frequent flyer database, unfavorable trends in historical or forecasted results of operations and cash flows and an uncertain economic environment, as well as other uncertainties. the company can provide no assurance that a material impairment loss of tangible or intangible assets will not occur in a future period. the value of the company's aircraft could be impacted in future periods by changes in supply and demand for these aircraft. such changes in supply and demand for certain aircraft types could result from grounding of aircraft by the company or other carriers. an impairment loss could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition and operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rates. our net income is affected by fluctuations in interest rates (e.g. interest expense on variable rate debt and interest income earned on short-term investments). the company's policy is to manage interest rate risk through a combination of fixed and variable rate debt. the following table summarizes information related to the company's interest rate market risk at december 31 (in millions): 2018 2017 variable rate debt carrying value of variable rate debt at december 31 $ 3,500 $ 3,342 impact of 100 basis point increase on projected interest expense for the following year 35 33 fixed rate debt carrying value of fixed rate debt at december 31 9,945 9,926 fair value of fixed rate debt at december 31 9,901 10,349 impact of 100 basis point increase in market rates on fair value (378 ) (403 ) a change in market interest rates would also impact interest income earned on our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. assuming our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments remain at their average 2018 levels, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in a corresponding increase in the company's interest income of approximately $45 million during 2019. commodity price risk (aircraft fuel). the price level of aircraft fuel can significantly affect the company's operations, results of operations, financial position and liquidity. our operational and financial results can be significantly impacted by changes in the price and availability of aircraft fuel. to provide adequate supplies of fuel, the company routinely enters into purchase contracts that are customarily indexed to market prices for aircraft fuel, and the company generally has some ability to cover short-term fuel supply and infrastructure disruptions at some major demand locations. the company's current strategy is to not enter into transactions to hedge fuel price volatility, although the company regularly reviews its policy based on market conditions and other factors. the company's 2019 forecasted fuel consumption is presently approximately 4.3 billion gallons, and based on this forecast, a one-dollar change in the price of a barrel of crude oil would change the company's annual fuel expense by approximately $ 104 million . foreign currency. the company generates revenues and incurs expenses in numerous foreign currencies. changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact the company's results of operations through changes in the dollar value of foreign currency-denominated operating revenues and expenses. some of the company's more significant foreign currency exposures include the canadian dollar, chinese renminbi, european euro, british pound and japanese yen. the company's current strategy is to not enter into transactions to hedge its foreign currency sales, although the company regularly reviews its policy based on market conditions and other factors. the result of a uniform 1% strengthening in the value of the u.s. dollar from december 31, 2018 levels relative to each of the currencies in which the company has foreign currency exposure would result in a decrease in pre-tax income of approximately $24 million for the year ending december 31, 2019 . this sensitivity analysis was prepared based upon projected 2019 foreign currency-denominated revenues and expenses as of december 31, 2018 . 39 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors and in part ii, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. we disclaim any intent or obligation to update or revise any of the forward-looking statements, whether in response to new information, unforeseen events, changed circumstances or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. part i item 1. business. overview united airlines holdings, inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, "ual" or the "company") is a holding company and its principal, wholly-owned subsidiary is united airlines, inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, "united"). as ual consolidates united for financial statement purposes, disclosures that relate to activities of united also apply to ual, unless otherwise noted. united's operating revenues and operating expenses comprise nearly 100% of ual's revenues and operating expenses. in addition, united comprises approximately the entire balance of ual's assets, liabilities and operating cash flows. when appropriate, ual and united are named specifically for their individual contractual obligations and related disclosures and any significant differences between the operations and results of ual and united are separately disclosed and explained. we sometimes use the words "we," "our," "us," and the "company" in this report for disclosures that relate to all of ual and united. ual was incorporated under the laws of the state of delaware on december 30, 1968. effective june 27, 2019, ual amended its certificate of incorporation to change its name to "united airlines holdings, inc." our principal executive office is located at 233 south wacker drive, chicago, illinois 60606 (telephone number (872) 825-4000). the company's website is located at www.united.com and its investor relations website is located at ir.united.com. the information contained on or connected to the company's websites is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on form 10-k and should not be considered part of this or any other report filed with the u.s. securities and exchange commission ("sec"). the company's filings with the sec, including annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and all amendments to those reports, as well as ual's proxy statement for its annual meeting of stockholders, are accessible without charge on the company's investor relations website, as soon as reasonably practicable, after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the sec. such filings are also available on the sec's website at www.sec.gov. operations the company transports people and cargo throughout north america and to destinations in asia, europe, africa, the pacific, the middle east and latin america. ual, through united and its regional carriers, operates more than 4,900 flights a day to 362 airports across six continents, with hubs at newark liberty international airport ("newark"), chicago o'hare international airport ("chicago o'hare"), denver international airport ("denver"), george bush intercontinental airport ("houston bush"), los angeles international airport ("lax"), a.b. won pat international airport ("guam"), san francisco international airport ("sfo") and washington dulles international airport ("washington dulles"). all of the company's domestic hubs are located in large business and population centers, contributing to a large amount of "origin and destination" traffic. the hub and spoke system allows us to transport passengers between a large number of destinations with substantially more frequent service than if each route were served directly. the hub system also allows us to add service to a new destination from a large number of cities using only one or a limited number of aircraft. as discussed under alliances below, united is a member of star alliance, the world's largest alliance network. regional. the company has contractual relationships with various regional carriers to provide regional aircraft service branded as united express. this regional service complements our operations by carrying traffic that connects to our hubs and allows flights to smaller cities that cannot be provided economically with mainline aircraft. champlain enterprises, llc d/b/a commutair ("commutair"), republic airline inc. ("republic"), expressjet airlines llc ("expressjet"), gojet airlines llc ("gojet"), mesa airlines, inc. ("mesa"), skywest airlines, inc. ("skywest"), air wisconsin airlines llc ("air wisconsin"), and trans states airlines, llc ("trans states") are all regional carriers that operate with capacity contracted to united under capacity purchase agreements ("cpas"). under these cpas, the company pays the regional carriers contractually agreed fees 3 table of contents (carrier costs) for operating these flights plus a variable rate adjustment based on agreed performance metrics, subject to annual adjustments. the fees are based on specific rates multiplied by specific operating statistics (e.g., block hours, departures), as well as fixed monthly amounts. under these cpas, the company is also responsible for all fuel costs incurred, as well as landing fees and other costs, which are either passed through by the regional carrier to the company without any markup or directly incurred by the company. in some cases, the company owns some or all of the aircraft subject to the cpa and leases such aircraft to the regional carrier. in return, the regional carriers operate the capacity of the aircraft included within the scope of such cpa exclusively for united, on schedules determined by the company. the company also determines pricing and revenue management, assumes the inventory and distribution risk for the available seats and permits mileage accrual and redemption for regional flights through its mileageplus loyalty program. alliances. united is a member of star alliance, a global integrated airline network and the largest and most comprehensive airline alliance in the world. as of january 1, 2020 , star alliance carriers served nearly 1,300 airports in 195 countries with more than 19,000 daily departures. star alliance members, in addition to united, are aegean airlines, air canada, air china, air india, air new zealand, all nippon airways ("ana"), asiana airlines, austrian airlines, aerov as del continente americano s.a. ("avianca"), brussels airlines, copa airlines ("copa"), croatia airlines, egyptair, ethiopian airlines, eva air, lot polish airlines, lufthansa, sas scandinavian airlines, shenzhen airlines, singapore airlines, south african airways, swiss, tap air portugal, thai airways international and turkish airlines. in addition to its members, star alliance includes shanghai-based juneyao airlines as a connecting partner. united has a variety of bilateral commercial alliance agreements and obligations with star alliance members, addressing, among other things, reciprocal earning and redemption of frequent flyer miles, access to airport lounges and, with certain star alliance members, codesharing of flight operations (whereby one carrier's selected flights can be marketed under the brand name of another carrier). in addition to the alliance agreements with star alliance members, united currently maintains independent marketing alliance agreements with other air carriers, including aeromar, aer lingus, air dolomiti, azul linhas a reas brasileiras s.a. ("azul"), boutique air, cape air, edelweiss, eurowings, hawaiian airlines, olympic air, silver airways and vistara. in addition to the marketing alliance agreements with air partners, united also offers a train-to-plane codeshare and frequent flyer alliance with amtrak from newark on select city pairs in the northeastern united states. united also participates in four passenger joint business arrangements ("jbas"): one with air canada and the lufthansa group (which includes lufthansa and its affiliates austrian airlines, brussels airlines, eurowings and swiss) covering transatlantic routes, one with ana covering certain transpacific routes, one with air new zealand covering certain routes between the united states and new zealand and one with avianca and copa airlines, which, upon receipt of regulatory approvals will cover routes between the united states and central and south america, excluding brazil. these passenger jbas enable the participating carriers to integrate the services they provide in the respective regions, capturing revenue synergies and delivering enhanced customer benefits, such as highly competitive flight schedules, fares and services. united also participates in cargo jbas with ana for transpacific cargo services and with lufthansa for transatlantic cargo services. these cargo jbas offer expanded and more seamless access to cargo space across the carriers' respective combined networks. loyalty program. united's mileageplus loyalty program builds customer loyalty by offering awards, benefits and services to program participants. members in this program earn miles for flights on united, united express, star alliance members and certain other airlines that participate in the program. members can also earn miles by purchasing goods and services from our network of non-airline partners, such as domestic and international credit card issuers, retail merchants, hotels and car rental companies. members can redeem miles for free (other than taxes and government-imposed fees), discounted or upgraded travel and non-travel awards. united has an agreement with jpmorgan chase bank, n.a. ("chase"), pursuant to which members of united's mileageplus loyalty program who are residents of the united states can earn miles for making purchases using a mileageplus credit card issued by chase (the "co-brand agreement"). the co-brand agreement also provides for joint marketing and other support for the mileageplus credit card and provides chase with other benefits such as permission to market to the company's customer database. in 2019 , approximately 6.1 million mileageplus flight awards were used on united and united express. these awards represented 7.2% of united's total revenue passenger miles. total miles redeemed for flights on united and united express, including class-of-service upgrades, represented approximately 87% of the total miles redeemed. in addition, excluding miles redeemed for flights on united and united express, mileageplus members redeemed miles for approximately 2.2 million other awards. these awards include united club memberships, car and hotel awards, merchandise and flights on other air carriers. 4 table of contents aircraft fuel. the table below summarizes ual's aircraft fuel consumption and expense during the last three years. year gallons consumed (in millions) fuel expense (in millions) average price per gallon percentage of total operating expense 2019 4,292 $ 8,953 $ 2.09 23 % 2018 4,137 $ 9,307 $ 2.25 24 % 2017 3,978 $ 6,913 $ 1.74 20 % our operational and financial results can be significantly impacted by changes in the price and availability of aircraft fuel. to provide adequate supplies of fuel, the company routinely enters into purchase contracts that are customarily indexed to market prices for aircraft fuel, and the company generally has some ability to cover short-term fuel supply and infrastructure disruptions at certain major demand locations. the price of aircraft fuel has fluctuated substantially in the past several years. the company's current strategy is to not enter into transactions to hedge its fuel consumption, although the company regularly reviews its strategy based on market conditions and other factors. third-party business. united generates third-party business revenue that includes maintenance services, catering, frequent flyer award non-travel redemptions and ground handling. third-party business revenue is recorded in other operating revenue. expenses associated with third-party business, except non-travel redemptions, are recorded in other operating expenses. non-travel redemptions expenses are recorded to other operating revenue. distribution channels. the company's airline seat inventory and fares are distributed through the company's direct channels, traditional travel agencies and on-line travel agencies. the use of the company's direct sales website, www.united.com, the company's mobile applications and alternative distribution systems provides the company with an opportunity to de-commoditize its services, better present its content, make more targeted offerings, better retain its customers, enhance its brand and lower its ticket distribution costs. agency sales are primarily sold using global distribution systems ("gds"). united has developed and expects to continue to develop capabilities to sell certain ancillary products through the gds channel to provide an enhanced buying experience for customers who purchase in that channel. industry conditions domestic competition. the domestic airline industry is highly competitive and dynamic. the company's competitors consist primarily of other airlines and, to a certain extent, other forms of transportation. currently, any u.s. carrier deemed fit by the u.s. department of transportation (the "dot") is largely free to operate scheduled passenger service between any two points within the united states. competition can be direct, in the form of another carrier flying the exact non-stop route, or indirect, where a carrier serves the same two cities non-stop from an alternative airport in that city or via an itinerary requiring a connection at another airport. air carriers' cost structures are not uniform and are influenced by numerous factors. carriers with lower costs may offer lower fares to passengers, which could have a potential negative impact on the company's revenues. domestic pricing decisions are impacted by intense competitive pressure exerted on the company by other u.s. airlines. in order to remain competitive and maintain passenger traffic levels, we often find it necessary to match competitors' discounted fares. since we compete in a dynamic marketplace, attempts to generate additional revenue through increased fares often fail. international competition. internationally, the company competes not only with u.s. airlines, but also with foreign carriers. international competition has increased and may continue to increase in the future as a result of airline mergers and acquisitions, jbas, alliances, restructurings, liberalization of aviation bilateral agreements and new or increased service by competitors, including government subsidized competitors from certain middle east countries. competition on international routes is subject to varying degrees of governmental regulation. the company's ability to compete successfully with non-u.s. carriers on international routes depends in part on its ability to generate traffic to and from the entire united states via its integrated domestic route network and its ability to overcome business and operational challenges across its network worldwide. foreign carriers currently are prohibited by u.s. law from carrying local passengers between two points in the united states and the company generally experiences comparable restrictions in foreign countries. separately, "fifth freedom rights" allow the company to operate between points in two different foreign countries and foreign carriers may also have fifth freedom rights between the u.s. and another foreign country. in the absence of fifth freedom rights, or some other extra-bilateral right to conduct operations between two foreign countries, u.s. carriers are constrained from carrying passengers to points beyond designated international gateway cities. to compensate partially for these structural limitations, u.s. and foreign carriers have entered into alliances, immunized jbas and marketing arrangements that enable these carriers to exchange traffic between each other's flights and route networks. see alliances, above, for additional information. 5 table of contents seasonality. the air travel business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. historically, demand for air travel is higher in the second and third quarters, driving higher revenues, than in the first and fourth quarters, which are periods of lower travel demand. industry regulation domestic regulation. all carriers engaged in air transportation in the united states are subject to regulation by the dot. absent an exemption, no air carrier may provide air transportation of passengers or property without first being issued a dot certificate of public convenience and necessity. the dot also grants international route authority, approves international codeshare arrangements and regulates methods of competition. the dot regulates consumer protection and maintains jurisdiction over advertising, denied boarding compensation, tarmac delays, baggage liability and other areas and may add additional expensive regulatory burdens in the future. the dot has launched investigations or claimed rulemaking authority to regulate commercial agreements among carriers or between carriers and third parties in a wide variety of contexts. airlines are also regulated by the federal aviation administration (the "faa"), an agency within the dot, primarily in the areas of flight safety, air carrier operations and aircraft maintenance and airworthiness. the faa issues air carrier operating certificates and aircraft airworthiness certificates, prescribes maintenance procedures, oversees airport operations, and regulates pilot and other employee training. from time to time, the faa issues directives that require air carriers to inspect, modify or ground aircraft and other equipment, potentially causing the company to incur substantial, unplanned expenses. the airline industry is also subject to numerous other federal laws and regulations. the u.s. department of homeland security ("dhs") has jurisdiction over virtually every aspect of civil aviation security. the antitrust division of the u.s. department of justice ("doj") has jurisdiction over certain airline competition matters. the u.s. postal service has authority over certain aspects of the transportation of mail by airlines. labor relations in the airline industry are generally governed by the railway labor act ("rla"), a federal statute. the company is also subject to investigation inquiries by the dot, faa, doj, dhs, the u.s. food and drug administration ("fda"), the u.s. department of agriculture ("usda") and other u.s. and international regulatory bodies. airport access. access to landing and take-off rights, or "slots," at several major u.s. airports served by the company are subject to government regulation. federally-mandated domestic slot restrictions that limit operations and regulate capacity currently apply at three airports: reagan national airport in washington, d.c. ("reagan national"), john f. kennedy international airport and laguardia airport ("laguardia") in the new york city metropolitan region. of these three airports, united currently operates at two: reagan national and laguardia. additional restrictions on takeoff and landing slots at these and other airports may be implemented in the future and could affect the company's rights of ownership and transfer as well as its operations. legislation . the airline industry is subject to legislative actions (or inactions) that may have an impact on operations and costs. in 2018, the u.s. congress approved a five-year reauthorization for the faa, which encompasses significant aviation tax and policy-related issues. the law includes a range of policy changes related to airline customer service and aviation safety which are ongoing and, depending on how they are implemented, could impact our operations and costs. additionally, the u.s. congress may consider legislation related to aviation safety as well as environmental issues which could impact the company and the airline industry. catering operations . the company owns and operates catering kitchens at airports in denver, cleveland, newark, houston, and honolulu, which prepare ready-to-eat food for united flights. some of the company's kitchens also prepare ready-to-eat food for other domestic and international airlines. the company's onboard food service operations are subject to fda regulation through its interstate conveyance sanitation regulations, and the company's catering operations are subject to regulation by the fda and the usda, as well as other federal, state, and local regulatory agencies. in particular, the fda enforces the federal food safety modernization act which requires all food manufacturers, including ready-to-eat catering operations, to implement stringent risk-based preventive controls. as a result, the company's catering and food service operations are periodically subject to inspections and enforcement by regulatory agencies. international regulation. international air transportation is subject to extensive government regulation. in connection with the company's international services, the company is regulated by both the u.s. government and the governments of the foreign countries the company serves. in addition, the availability of international routes to u.s. carriers is regulated by aviation agreements between the u.s. and foreign governments, and in some cases, fares and schedules require the approval of the dot and/or the relevant foreign governments. legislation. foreign countries are increasingly enacting passenger protection laws, rules and regulations that meet or exceed u.s. requirements. in cases where this activity exceeds u.s. requirements, additional burden and liability may be placed on the company. certain countries have regulations requiring passenger compensation and/or enforcement penalties from the company in addition to changes in operating procedures due to canceled and delayed flights. 6 table of contents airport access. historically, access to foreign markets has been tightly controlled through bilateral agreements between the u.s. and each foreign country involved. these agreements regulate the markets served, the number of carriers allowed to serve each market and the frequency of carriers' flights. since the early 1990s, the u.s. has pursued a policy of "open skies" (meaning all u.s.-flag carriers have access to the destination), under which the u.s. government has negotiated a number of bilateral agreements allowing unrestricted access between u.s. and foreign markets. currently, there are more than 100 open skies agreements in effect. however, even with open skies, many of the airports that the company serves in europe, asia and latin america maintain slot controls. a large number of these slot controls exist due to congestion, environmental and noise protection and reduced capacity due to runway and air traffic control ("atc") construction work, among other reasons. london heathrow international airport, frankfurt rhein-main airport, shanghai pudong international airport, beijing capital international airport, sao paulo guarulhos international airport and tokyo haneda international airport are among the most restrictive foreign airports due to slot and capacity limitations. the company's ability to serve some foreign markets and expand into certain others is limited by the absence of aviation agreements between the u.s. government and the relevant foreign governments. shifts in u.s. or foreign government aviation policies may lead to the alteration or termination of air service agreements. depending on the nature of any such change, the value of the company's international route authorities and slot rights may be materially enhanced or diminished. similarly, foreign governments control their airspace and can restrict our ability to overfly their territory, enhancing or diminishing the value of the company's existing international route authorities and slot rights. environmental regulation. the airline industry is subject to increasingly stringent federal, state, local and international environmental requirements, including those regulating emissions to air, water discharges, safe drinking water and the use and management of hazardous substances and wastes. climate change . there is an increasing global regulatory focus on greenhouse gas ("ghg") emissions and their potential impacts relating to climate change. an initiative to regulate ghg emissions from aviation known as the european union ("eu") emission trading system ("ets") was adopted in 2009, but applicability to flights arriving or departing from airports outside the eu has been postponed several times. in december 2017, the european parliament voted to extend exemptions for extra-eu flights until december 2023 in order to align the extension date with the completion of the pilot phase of the international civil aviation organization's ("icao") carbon offsetting and reduction scheme for international aviation ("corsia"). corsia, which was adopted in october 2016, is intended to create a single global market-based measure to achieve carbon-neutral growth for international aviation after 2020, which can be achieved through airline purchases of carbon offset credits. however, the european parliament is expected to assess corsia implementation and re-assess the applicability of eu ets to international aviation in 2024, at which point the eu could require all extra- and intra-eu flights to participate in eu ets. certain corsia program details remain to be developed and could potentially be affected by political developments in participating countries or the results of the pilot phase of the program, and thus the impact of corsia cannot be fully predicted. however, corsia is expected to increase operating costs for the company, depending on a number of factors, including the number of its flights that are subject to corsia, the fuel efficiency of the company's fleet, the company's purchase and use of corsia-eligible sustainable aviation fuels, aviation sector growth, and the price of corsia-eligible offsets. in 2017, icao also adopted a carbon dioxide ("co2") emission standard for aircraft. in 2016, the u.s. environmental protection agency ("epa") commenced procedural steps necessary to adopt its own standard, but has not yet taken further action. while the precise timing and final form of these various programs and requirements continue to evolve, the company is taking various actions that are expected to help reduce its co2 emissions over time such as improving fuel efficiency, fleet renewal, aircraft retrofits and promoting the commercialization of sustainable aviation fuels. other regulations . our operations are subject to a variety of other environmental laws and regulations both in the united states and internationally. these include noise-related restrictions on aircraft types and operating times and state and local air quality initiatives which have, or could in the future, result in curtailments in services, increased operating costs, limits on expansion, or further emission reduction requirements. certain airports and/or governments, both domestically and internationally, either have or are seeking to establish environmental fees and other requirements applicable to carbon emissions, local air quality pollutants and/or noise. the implementation of these requirements is expected to result in restrictions on mobile sources such as cars, trucks and airport ground support equipment in corresponding locations. finally, environmental cleanup laws could require the company to undertake or subject the company to liability for investigation and remediation costs at certain owned or leased locations or third-party disposal locations. until applicability of new regulations to our specific operations is better defined and/or until pending regulations are finalized, future costs to comply with such regulations will remain uncertain but are likely to increase our operating costs over time. while we continue to monitor these developments, the precise nature of future requirements and their applicability to the company are difficult to predict, but the financial impact to the company and the aviation industry could be significant. 7 table of contents employees as of december 31, 2019 , ual, including its subsidiaries, had approximately 96,000 employees. approximately 84% of the company's employees were represented by various u.s. labor organizations. collective bargaining agreements between the company and its represented employee groups are negotiated under the rla. such agreements typically do not contain an expiration date and instead specify an amendable date, upon which the agreement is considered "open for amendment." on february 1, 2019, the collective bargaining agreement with the air line pilots association ("alpa"), the labor union representing united's pilots, became amendable. the company and alpa are in negotiations for an amended agreement. the company and unite here, the labor union representing united's catering employees, started negotiations for a first collective bargaining agreement in march 2019. the following table reflects the company's represented employee groups, the number of employees per represented group, union representation for each employee group, and the amendable date for each employee group's collective bargaining agreement as of december 31, 2019 : employee group number of employees union agreement open for amendment flight attendants 24,203 association of flight attendants (the "afa") august 2021 fleet service 13,803 international association of machinists and aerospace workers (the "iam") december 2021 passenger service 12,135 iam december 2021 pilots 12,251 alpa january 2019 technicians 9,318 international brotherhood of teamsters (the "ibt") december 2022 (a) passenger service - united ground express, inc. 4,155 iam march 2025 catering 2,577 unite here n/a storekeepers 989 iam december 2021 dispatchers 412 professional airline flight control association december 2021 fleet tech instructors 130 iam december 2021 load planners 62 iam december 2021 security officers 45 iam december 2021 maintenance instructors 40 iam december 2021 (a) the collective bargaining agreement with the ibt contains provisions that require the company to align contract terms with other airlines' workgroups under certain conditions. information about our executive officers kate gebo. age 51. ms. gebo has served as executive vice president human resources and labor relations of ual and united since december 2017. from november 2016 to november 2017, ms. gebo served as senior vice president, global customer service delivery and chief customer officer of united. from october 2015 to november 2016, ms. gebo served as vice president of the office of the chief executive officer. from november 2009 to october 2015, ms. gebo served as vice president of corporate real estate of united. brett j. hart. age 50. mr. hart has served as executive vice president and chief administrative officer of ual and united since march 2019. from may 2017 to march 2019, he served as executive vice president, chief administrative officer and general counsel of ual and united. from february 2012 to may 2017, he served as executive vice president and general counsel of ual and united. mr. hart served as acting chief executive officer and principal executive officer of the company, on an interim basis, from october 2015 to march 2016. from december 2010 to february 2012, he served as senior vice president, general counsel and secretary of ual, united and continental airlines, inc. ("continental"). from june 2009 to december 2010, mr. hart served as executive vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary at sara lee corporation, a consumer food and beverage company. from march 2005 to may 2009, mr. hart served as deputy general counsel and chief global compliance officer of sara lee corporation. gregory l. hart. age 54. mr. hart has served as executive vice president and chief operations officer of ual and united since february 2014. from december 2013 to february 2014, he served as senior vice president operations of ual and united. from september 2012 to december 2013, mr. hart served as senior vice president technical operations of united. from october 2010 to september 2012, mr. hart served as senior vice president network of united and continental. from 8 table of contents september 2008 to september 2010, mr. hart served as vice president network strategy of continental. mr. hart joined continental in 1997. linda p. jojo. age 54. ms. jojo has served as executive vice president technology and chief digital officer of ual and united since may 2017. from november 2014 to may 2017, ms. jojo served as executive vice president and chief information officer of ual and united. from july 2011 to october 2014, ms. jojo served as executive vice president and chief information officer of rogers communications, inc., a canadian communications and media company. from october 2008 to june 2011, ms. jojo served as chief information officer of energy future holdings, a dallas-based privately held energy company and electrical utility provider. chris kenny. age 55. mr. kenny has served as vice president and controller of ual and united since october 2010. from september 2003 to september 2010, mr. kenny served as vice president and controller of continental. mr. kenny joined continental in 1997. j. scott kirby. age 52. mr. kirby has served as president of ual and united since august 2016. prior to joining the company, from december 2013 to august 2016, mr. kirby served as president of american airlines group and american airlines, inc. mr. kirby also previously served as president of us airways from october 2006 to december 2013. mr. kirby held significant other leadership roles at us airways and at america west prior to the 2005 merger of those carriers, including executive vice president sales and marketing (2001 to 2006); senior vice president, e-business (2000 to 2001); vice president, revenue management (1998 to 2000); vice president, planning (1997 to 1998); and senior director, scheduling and planning (1995 to 1998). prior to joining america west, mr. kirby worked for american airlines decision technologies and at the pentagon. in december 2019, the company announced that mr. kirby will become chief executive officer of ual and united following ual's 2020 annual meeting of stockholders, scheduled for may 20, 2020 (the "2020 annual meeting"). gerald laderman. age 62 . mr. laderman has served as executive vice president and chief financial officer since august 2018. mr. laderman served as senior vice president finance, procurement and treasurer for ual and united from 2013 to august 2015, and again from august 2016 to may 2018. mr. laderman additionally was acting chief financial officer from august 2015 to august 2016 and from may 2018 to august 2018. mr. laderman served as senior vice president finance and treasurer for the company from 2010 to 2013. from 2001 to 2010, mr. laderman served as senior vice president of finance and treasurer for continental. mr. laderman joined continental in 1988 as senior director legal affairs, finance and aircraft programs. oscar munoz. age 61. mr. munoz has served as chief executive officer of ual and united since september 2015, and also as president of ual and united from september 2015 until august 2016. from february 2015 to september 2015, mr. munoz served as president and chief operating officer of csx corporation ("csx"), a railroad and intermodal transportation services company, overseeing operations, sales and marketing, human resources, service design and information technology. prior to his appointment as president and chief operating officer of csx, mr. munoz served as executive vice president and chief operating officer of csx from january 2012 to february 2015 and as executive vice president and chief financial officer of csx from 2003 to 2012. mr. munoz has been a member of the ual board of directors since 2010. in december 2019, the company announced that mr. munoz will transition from the role of chief executive officer of ual and united following ual's 2020 annual meeting and assume the role of executive chairman of the board of directors of ual. andrew nocella. age 50. mr. nocella has served as executive vice president and chief commercial officer of ual and united since september 2017. from february 2017 to september 2017, he served as executive vice president and chief revenue officer of ual and united. prior to joining the company, from august 2016 to february 2017, mr. nocella served as senior vice president, alliances and sales of american airlines, inc. from december 2013 to august 2016, he served as senior vice president and chief marketing officer of american airlines, inc. from august 2007 to december 2013, he served as senior vice president, marketing and planning of us airways. 9 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. the following risk factors should be read carefully when evaluating the company's business and the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other statements the company or its representatives make from time to time. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect the company's business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. if we do not successfully execute our strategic operating plan, or if our strategic operating plan is unsuccessful, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. we have announced several strategic plans in recent years, including several revenue-generating initiatives and plans to optimize our revenue, such as our plans to add capacity, including international expansion and new or increased service to mid-size airports, and initiatives and plans to optimize and control our costs. we also continue to explore opportunities to enhance our segmentation, including the introduction of polaris, basic economy and united premium plus, and are implementing many programs and policies to improve the customer experience at all points in air travel. in developing our strategic operating plan, we make certain assumptions, including, but not limited to, those related to customer demand, competition, market consolidation, the availability of aircraft and the global economy. actual economic, market and other conditions may be different from our assumptions. in 2019, our capacity growth was lower than planned due to the grounding of boeing 737 max aircraft, among other factors, which adversely impacted our ability to execute our strategic operating plans. if we do not successfully execute our strategic operating plan, or if actual results vary significantly from our assumptions, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely impacted. unfavorable economic and political conditions, in the united states and globally, may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. the company's business and operating results are significantly impacted by u.s. and global economic and political conditions. the airline industry is highly cyclical, and the level of demand for air travel is correlated to the strength of the u.s. and global economies. robust demand for the company's air transportation services depends largely on favorable economic conditions, including the strength of the domestic and foreign economies, low unemployment levels, strong consumer confidence levels and the availability of consumer and business credit. air transportation is often a discretionary purchase that leisure travelers may limit or eliminate during difficult economic times. short-haul travelers, in particular, have the option to replace air travel with surface travel. in addition, during periods of unfavorable economic conditions, business travelers historically have reduced the volume of their travel, either due to cost-saving initiatives, the replacement of travel with alternatives such as videoconferencing, or as a result of decreased business activity requiring travel. during such periods, the company's business and operating results may be adversely affected due to significant declines in industry passenger demand, particularly with respect to the company's business and premium cabin travelers, and a reduction in fare levels. as a global business with operations outside of the united states from which it derives significant operating revenues, volatile conditions in certain international regions may have a negative impact on the company's operating results and its ability to achieve its business objectives. the company's international operations are a vital part of its worldwide airline network. political disruptions and instability in certain regions can negatively impact the demand and network availability for air travel. additionally, any deterioration in global trade relations, such as increased tariffs or other trade barriers, could result in a decrease in the demand for international air travel. stagnant or weakening global economic conditions either in the united states or in other geographic regions may have a material adverse effect on the company's revenues, operating results and liquidity. the global airline industry is highly competitive and susceptible to price discounting and changes in capacity, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. the airline industry is highly competitive, marked by significant competition with respect to routes, fares, schedules (both timing and frequency), services, products, customer service and frequent flyer programs. consolidation in the airline industry, the rise of well-funded government sponsored international carriers, changes in international alliances and the creation of immunized jbas have altered and are expected to continue to alter the competitive landscape in the industry, resulting in the formation of airlines and alliances with increased financial resources, more extensive global networks and services and competitive cost structures. airlines also compete by increasing or decreasing their capacity, including route systems and the number of destinations served. several of the company's domestic and international competitors have increased their international capacity by including service to some destinations that the company currently serves, causing overlap in destinations served, and therefore, increasing competition for those destinations. this increased competition in both domestic and international markets may have 10 table of contents a material adverse effect on the company's business, operating results and financial condition. the company's u.s. operations are subject to competition from traditional network carriers, national point-to-point carriers, and discount carriers, including low-cost carriers and ultra-low-cost carriers. such carriers may have lower costs and provide service at lower fares to destinations also served by the company. the significant presence of low-cost carriers and ultra-low-cost carriers, which engage in substantial price discounting, may diminish our ability to achieve sustained profitability on domestic and international routes. our ability to compete in the domestic market effectively depends, in part, on our ability to maintain a competitive cost structure. if we cannot maintain our costs at a competitive level, then our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. our international operations are subject to competition from both foreign and domestic carriers. competition is significant from government subsidized competitors from certain middle east countries. these carriers have large numbers of international widebody aircraft on order and are increasing service to the u.s. from their hubs in the middle east. the government support provided to these carriers has allowed them to grow quickly, reinvest in their product, invest in other airlines and expand their global presence. we also face competition from foreign carriers operating under "fifth freedom" rights permitted under international treaties that allow certain carriers to provide service to and from stopover points between their home country and ultimate destination, including points in the united states, in competition with service provided by us. through alliance and other marketing and codesharing agreements with foreign carriers, u.s. carriers have increased their ability to sell international transportation, such as services to and beyond traditional global gateway cities. similarly, foreign carriers have obtained increased access to interior u.s. passenger traffic beyond traditional u.s. gateway cities through these relationships. in addition, several jbas among u.s. and foreign carriers have received grants of antitrust immunity allowing the participating carriers to coordinate schedules, pricing, sales and inventory. if we are not able to continue participating in these types of alliance and other marketing and codesharing agreements in the future, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. high and/or volatile fuel prices or significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a material adverse impact on the company's strategic plans, operating results, financial condition and liquidity. aircraft fuel is critical to the company's operations and is one of our largest operating expenses. during the year ended december 31, 2019, the company's fuel expense was approximately $9.0 billion . the timely and adequate supply of fuel to meet operational demand depends on the continued availability of reliable fuel supply sources, as well as related service and delivery infrastructure. although the company has some ability to cover short-term fuel supply and infrastructure disruptions at some major demand locations, it depends significantly on the continued performance of its vendors and service providers to maintain supply integrity. consequently, the company can neither predict nor guarantee the continued timely availability of aircraft fuel throughout the company's system. aircraft fuel has historically been the company's most volatile operating expense due to the highly unpredictable nature of market prices for fuel. the company generally sources fuel at prevailing market prices. market prices for aircraft fuel have historically fluctuated substantially in short periods of time and continue to be highly volatile due to a dependence on a multitude of unpredictable factors beyond the company's control. these factors include changes in global crude oil prices, the balance between aircraft fuel supply and demand, natural disasters, prevailing inventory levels and fuel production and transportation infrastructure. prices of fuel are also impacted by indirect factors, such as geopolitical events, economic growth indicators, fiscal/monetary policies, fuel tax policies, changes in regulations, environmental concerns and financial investments in energy markets. both actual changes in these factors, as well as changes in related market expectations, can potentially drive rapid changes in fuel prices in short periods of time. given the highly competitive nature of the airline industry, the company may not be able to increase its fares and fees sufficiently to offset the full impact of increases in fuel prices, especially if these increases are significant, rapid and sustained. further, any such fare or fee increase may not be sustainable, may reduce the general demand for air travel and may also eventually impact the company's strategic growth and investment plans for the future. in addition, decreases in fuel prices for an extended period of time may result in increased industry capacity, increased competitive actions for market share and lower fares or surcharges. if fuel prices were to then subsequently rise quickly, there may be a lag between the rise in fuel prices and any improvement of the revenue environment. to protect against increases in the market prices of fuel, the company may hedge a portion of its future fuel requirements. the company does not currently hedge its future fuel requirements. however, to the extent the company decides to start a hedging program, such hedging program may not be successful in mitigating higher fuel costs, and any price protection provided may be limited due to the choice of hedging instruments and market conditions, including breakdown of correlation between hedging instrument and market price of aircraft fuel and failure of hedge counterparties. to the extent that the company decides to hedge a portion of its future fuel requirements and uses hedge contracts that have the potential to create an obligation 11 table of contents to pay upon settlement if fuel prices decline significantly, such hedge contracts may limit the company's ability to benefit fully from lower fuel prices in the future. if fuel prices decline significantly from the levels existing at the time the company enters into a hedge contract, the company may be required to post collateral (margin) beyond certain thresholds. there can be no assurance that the company's hedging arrangements, if any, will provide any particular level of protection against rises in fuel prices or that its counterparties will be able to perform under the company's hedging arrangements. additionally, deterioration in the company's financial condition could negatively affect its ability to enter into new hedge contracts in the future. the company relies heavily on technology and automated systems to operate its business and any significant failure or disruption of the technology or these systems could materially harm its business. the company depends on automated systems and technology to operate its business, including, but not limited to, computerized airline reservation systems, demand prediction software, flight operations systems, revenue management systems, accounting systems, technical and business operations systems, telecommunication systems and commercial websites and applications, including www.united.com and the united airlines app. united's website and other automated systems must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic, maintain secure information and deliver important flight and schedule information, as well as process critical financial transactions. these systems could suffer substantial or repeated disruptions due to various events, some of which are beyond the company's control, including natural disasters, power failures, terrorist attacks, equipment or software failures or cyber security attacks. we have initiatives in place to prevent disruptions and disaster recovery plans, and we continue to invest in improvements to these initiatives and plans; however, these measures may not be adequate to prevent or mitigate disruptions. substantial or repeated systems failures or disruptions, including failures or disruptions related to the company's complex integration of systems, could reduce the attractiveness of the company's services versus those of its competitors, materially impair its ability to market its services and operate its flights, result in the unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, result in increased costs, lost revenue and the loss or compromise of important data, and may adversely affect the company's business, operating results and financial condition. the company's business relies extensively on third-party service providers, including certain technology providers. failure of these parties to perform as expected, or interruptions in the company's relationships with these providers or their provision of services to the company, could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, operating results and financial condition. the company has engaged third-party service providers to perform a large number of functions that are integral to its business, including regional operations, operation of customer service call centers, distribution and sale of airline seat inventory, provision of information technology infrastructure and services, transmitting or uploading of data, provision of aircraft maintenance and repairs, provision of various utilities, performance of aircraft fueling operations and catering services, among other vital functions and services. the company does not directly control these third-party service providers, although generally it does enter into agreements that define expected service performance and compliance requirements, such as compliance with legal requirements, including anti-corruption laws; however, there can be no assurance that our third-party service providers will adhere to these requirements. any of these third-party service providers, however, may materially fail to meet its service performance commitments to the company or may suffer disruptions to its systems that could impact its services. for example, failures in certain third-party technology or communications systems may cause flight delays or cancellations. the failure of any of the company's third-party service providers to perform its service obligations adequately, or other interruptions of services, may reduce the company's revenues and increase its expenses, prevent the company from operating its flights and providing other services to its customers or result in adverse publicity or harm to our brand. we may also be subject to consequences from any illegal conduct of our third-party service providers, including for their failure to comply with anti-corruption laws, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act. in addition, the company's business and financial performance could be materially harmed if its customers believe that its services are unreliable or unsatisfactory. the company may also have disagreements with such providers or such contracts may be terminated or may not be extended or renewed. for example, the number of flight reservations booked through third-party gdss or online travel agents ("otas") may be adversely affected by disruptions in the business relationships between the company and these suppliers. such disruptions, including a failure to agree upon acceptable contract terms when contracts expire or otherwise become subject to renegotiation, may cause the company's flight information to be limited or unavailable for display by the affected gds or ota operator, significantly increase fees for both the company and gds/ota users and impair the company's relationships with its customers and travel agencies. any such disruptions or contract terminations may adversely impact our operations and financial results. if we are not able to negotiate or renew agreements with third-party service providers, or if we renew existing agreements on less favorable terms, our operations and financial results may be adversely affected. 12 table of contents the company could experience adverse publicity, harm to its brand, reduced travel demand and potential tort liability as a result of an accident, catastrophe or incident involving its aircraft or its operations, the aircraft or operations of its regional carriers, the aircraft or operations of its codeshare partners, or the aircraft or operations of another airline, which may result in a material adverse effect on the company's business, operating results and financial condition. an accident, catastrophe or incident involving an aircraft that the company operates, or an aircraft that is operated by a codeshare partner, one of the company's regional carriers or another airline, or an incident involving the company's operations, or the operations of a codeshare partner, one of the company's regional carriers or of another airline, could have a material adverse effect on the company if such accident, catastrophe or incident created a public perception that the company's operations, or the operations of its codeshare partners or regional carriers, are not safe or reliable, or are less safe or reliable than other airlines. additionally, any accident, catastrophe or incident involving an aircraft type that is operated by the company, its codeshare partners or regional carriers could have a material adverse effect on the company if such accident, catastrophe or incident creates a public perception that such aircraft type was not safe or reliable. such public perception could, in turn, result in adverse publicity for the company, cause harm to the company's brand and reduce travel demand on the company's flights, or the flights of its codeshare partners or regional carriers. in addition, any such accident, catastrophe or incident involving the company, its regional carriers or its codeshare partners could expose the company to significant tort liability. although the company currently maintains liability insurance in amounts and of the type the company believes to be consistent with industry practice to cover damages arising from any such accident, catastrophe or incident, and the company's codeshare partners and regional carriers carry similar insurance and generally indemnify the company for their operations, if the company's liability exceeds the applicable policy limits or the ability of another carrier to indemnify it, the company could incur substantial losses from an accident, catastrophe or incident which may result in a material adverse effect on the company's operating results and financial condition. terrorist attacks, international hostilities or other security events, or the fear of terrorist attacks or hostilities, even if not made directly on the airline industry, could negatively affect the company and the airline industry. terrorist attacks or international hostilities, even if not made on or targeted directly at the airline industry, or the fear of or the precautions taken in anticipation of such attacks (including elevated national threat warnings, travel restrictions, selective cancellation or redirection of flights and new security regulations) could materially and adversely affect the company and the airline industry. security events pose a significant risk to our passenger and cargo operations. these events could include acts of violence in public areas that we cannot control. the company's financial resources may not be sufficient to absorb the adverse effects of any future terrorist attacks, international hostilities or other security events. any such events could have a material adverse impact on the company's financial condition, liquidity and operating results. increasing privacy and data security obligations or a significant data breach may adversely affect the company's business. in our regular business operations, we collect, transmit, process and store sensitive data, including personal information of our customers and employees such as payment processing information and information of our business partners. the company depends on the ability to use information we collect to provide our services and operate our business. the company must manage increasing legislative, regulatory and consumer focus on privacy issues and data security. for example, in may 2018, the eu's general data protection regulation became effective, which imposes significant privacy and data security requirements, as well as potential for substantial penalties for non-compliance. recent penalties imposed by regulators have resulted in substantial adverse financial consequences to those companies. also, some of the company's commercial partners, such as credit card companies, have imposed data security standards that the company must meet. these standards continue to evolve. the company will continue its efforts to meet its privacy and data security obligations; however, it is possible that certain new obligations or customer expectations may be difficult to meet and could increase the company's costs. additionally, the company must manage evolving cybersecurity risks. our network systems and storage applications, and those systems and storage and other business applications maintained by our third-party providers, may be subject to attempts to gain unauthorized access, breach, malfeasance or other system disruptions. in some cases, it is difficult to anticipate or to detect immediately such incidents and the damage caused thereby. in addition, as attacks by cybercriminals become more sophisticated, frequent and intense, the costs of proactive defense measures may increase. while we continually work to safeguard our internal network systems, including through risk assessments, system monitoring, information security policies and employee awareness and training, and review and validate our third-party security standards, there is no assurance that such actions will be sufficient to prevent cyber-attacks or data breaches. the loss, disclosure, misappropriation of or access to customers', employees' or business partners' information or the company's failure to meet its obligations could result in legal claims or proceedings, penalties and remediation costs. a 13 table of contents significant data breach or the company's failure to meet its obligations may adversely affect the company's reputation, relationships with our business partners, business, operating results and financial condition. the mandatory grounding of our boeing 737 max 9 aircraft may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. on march 13, 2019, the federal aviation administration issued an emergency order prohibiting the operation of boeing 737 max series aircraft by u.s. certificated operators (the "faa order"). as a result, the company grounded all 14 boeing 737 max 9 aircraft in its fleet and boeing also suspended deliveries of new boeing 737 max series aircraft. the company does not know whether, on what conditions or when the max grounding will end. the long-term operational and financial impact of this grounding is uncertain and could negatively affect the company based on a number of factors, including, among others, the period of time the aircraft are unavailable, the availability of replacement aircraft, to the extent needed, and the circumstances of any reintroduction of the grounded aircraft to service. in 2019, the grounding affected the delivery of 16 boeing 737 max aircraft that were scheduled for delivery and were not delivered, and it is also expected to affect the timing of future boeing 737 max aircraft deliveries, including the 28 boeing 737 max aircraft that the company planned to take delivery in 2020. the extent of the delay of future deliveries is expected to be impacted by the length of time the faa order remains in place, boeing's production rate and the pace at which boeing can deliver aircraft following the lifting of the faa order, among other factors. the company continues to make adjustments to its flight schedule and operations, including substituting replacement aircraft on routes originally intended to be flown by boeing 737 max aircraft. the grounding has impacted the company's ability to implement its strategic growth strategy, reducing the company's scheduled capacity from its planned capacity, and has resulted in increased costs as well as lower operating revenue. the company has had discussions with boeing regarding compensation from boeing for the company's financial damages related to the grounding of the airline's boeing 737 max aircraft; however, the parties have not agreed to any settlement, and the amount, nature and timing of any settlement with boeing remains uncertain. disruptions to our regional network and united express flights provided by third-party regional carriers could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. the company has contractual relationships with various regional carriers to provide regional aircraft service branded as united express. these regional operations are an extension of the company's mainline network and complement the company's operations by carrying traffic that connects to mainline service and allows flights to smaller cities that cannot be provided economically with mainline aircraft. the company's business and operations are dependent on its regional flight network, with regional capacity accounting for approximately 11% of the company's total capacity for the year ended december 31, 2019 . although the company has agreements with its regional carriers that include contractually agreed performance metrics, each regional carrier is a separately certificated commercial air carrier and the company does not control the operations of these carriers. a number of factors may impact the company's regional network, including weather-related effects and seasonality. in addition, the decrease in qualified pilots driven by changes to federal regulations has adversely impacted and could continue to affect the company's regional flying. for example, the faa's expansion of minimum pilot qualification standards, including a requirement that a pilot have at least 1,500 total flight hours, as well as the faa's revised pilot flight and duty time requirements under part 117 of the federal aviation regulations, have contributed to a smaller supply of pilots available to regional carriers. the decrease in qualified pilots resulting from the regulations as well as factors including a decreased student pilot population and a shrinking u.s. military from which to hire qualified pilots, could adversely impact the company's operations and financial condition, and could also require the company to reduce regional carrier flying. if a significant disruption occurs to the company's regional network or flights or if one or more of the regional carriers with which the company has relationships is unable to perform their obligations over an extended period of time, there could be a material adverse effect on the company's business, operating results and financial condition. current or future litigation and regulatory actions, or failure to comply with the terms of any settlement, order or arrangement relating to these actions, could have a material adverse impact on the company. from time to time, we are subject to litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings relating to our business or investigations or other actions by governmental agencies, including as described in part i, item 3, legal proceedings, of this report. no assurances can be given that the results of these or new matters will be favorable to us. an adverse resolution of lawsuits, arbitrations, investigations or other proceedings or actions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results, including as a result of non-monetary remedies, and could also result in adverse publicity. defending ourselves in these matters may be time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations and may 14 table of contents result in significant expense and a diversion of management's time and attention from the operation of our business, which could impede our ability to achieve our business objectives. additionally, any amount that we may be required to pay to satisfy a judgment, settlement, fine or penalty may not be covered by insurance. if we fail to comply with the terms contained in any settlement, order or agreement with a governmental authority relating to these matters, we could be subject to criminal or civil penalties, which could have a material adverse impact on the company. under our charter and certain indemnification agreements that we have entered into (and may in the future enter into) with our officers, directors and certain third parties, we could be required to indemnify and advance expenses to them in connection with their involvement in certain actions, suits, investigations and other proceedings. there can be no assurance that any of these payments will not be material. our significant investments in other airlines, including in other parts of the world, and the commercial relationships that we have with those carriers may not produce the returns or results we expect. an important part of our strategy to expand our global network includes making significant investments in airlines both domestically and in other parts of the world and expanding our commercial relationships with these carriers. for example, in january 2019, we completed the acquisition of a 49.9% interest in manaair llc, which, as of immediately following the closing of that investment, owns 100% of the equity interests in expressjet airlines llc, a domestic regional airline. we also have minority equity interests in commutair and republic airways holdings inc. see note 9 to the financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this report for additional information regarding our investments in regional airlines. we also have significant investments in latin american airlines, including significant investments in avianca holdings, s.a. ("avh") and brw aviation llc ("brw"), an affiliate of synergy aerospace corporation and the majority shareholder of avh, and an equity investment in azul. see note 8 and note 9 to the financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this report for additional information regarding our investments in avh and azul, respectively. see also the additional risks with respect to our investment in avh described in this part i, item 1a. risk factors. we expect to continue exploring similar non-controlling investments in, and entering into jbas, commercial agreements, loan transactions and strategic alliances with, other carriers as part of our regional and global business strategy. these transactions and relationships involve significant challenges and risks, and we face competition in forming and maintaining these relationships, since there are a limited number of potential arrangements and other airlines are looking to enter into similar relationships. we are dependent on these other carriers for significant aspects of our network in the regions in which they operate. while we work closely with these carriers, each is a separately certificated commercial air carrier, and we do not have control over their operations, strategy, management or business methods. and not only are these airlines subject to a number of the same risks as our business, which are described elsewhere in this part i, item 1a. risk factors, including competitive pressures on pricing, demand and capacity, changes in aircraft fuel pricing, and the impact of global and local political and economic conditions on operations and customer travel patterns, among others, they are also subject to their own distinct financial and operational risks. as a result of these and other factors, we may not realize a satisfactory return on our investment, and we may not receive repayment of any invested or loaned funds. further, these investments may not generate the revenue or operational synergies we expect, and they may distract management focus from our operations or other strategic options. finally, our reliance on these other carriers in the regions in which they operate may negatively impact our regional and global operations and results if those carriers are impacted by general business risks or perform below our expectations or needs. any one or more of these events could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. we may also be subject to consequences from any illegal conduct of jba partners, including for failure to comply with anti-corruption laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act. furthermore, our relationships with these carriers may be subject to the laws and regulations of non-u.s. jurisdictions in which these carriers are located or conduct business. in addition, any political or regulatory change in these jurisdictions that negatively impacts or prohibits our arrangements with these carriers could have an adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. to the extent that the operations of any of these carriers are disrupted over an extended period of time or their actions subject us to the consequences of failure to comply with laws and regulations, our operating results may be adversely affected. our significant investments in avh and its affiliates, and the commercial relationships that we have with avianca may not produce the returns or results we expect. in november 2018, as part of our global network strategy, united entered into a revenue-sharing jba with avianca, a subsidiary of avh, copa and several of their respective affiliates, subject to regulatory approval. concurrently with this transaction, united, as lender, entered into a term loan agreement (the "brw term loan agreement") with, among others, brw aviation holding llc ("brw holding") and brw, as guarantor and borrower, respectively. pursuant to the brw term loan agreement, united provided to brw a $456 million term loan (the "brw term loan"), secured by a pledge of brw's equity, as well as brw's 516 million common shares of avh (which are eligible to be converted into the same number of 15 table of contents preferred shares, which maybe be deposited with the depositary for avh's american depositary receipts ("adrs"), the class of avh securities that trades on the new york stock exchange (the "nyse"), in exchange for 64.5 million adrs) (such shares and equity, collectively, the "brw loan collateral"). brw is currently in default under the brw term loan agreement. in order to protect the value of its collateral, on may 24, 2019, united began to exercise certain remedies available to it under the terms of the brw term loan agreement and related documents. in connection with the delivery by united of a notice of default to brw, kingsland holdings limited ("kingsland"), avh's largest minority shareholder, was granted, in accordance with the agreements related to the brw term loan agreement, authority to manage brw, which remains the majority shareholder of avh. after a hearing on september 26, 2019, a new york state court granted kingsland summary judgment authorizing it to foreclose on the brw loan collateral under the brw term loan agreement. kingsland is continuing with the foreclosure process, which is expected to result in a judicially supervised sale of the brw loan collateral. the new york state court also granted kingsland's motion for a preliminary injunction that, among other things, enjoins brw holding from interfering with kingsland's ability to exercise voting and other rights in certain equity interests in brw. these rulings are intermediate steps in the judicial foreclosure process in new york and are subject to appeal. the repayment of the brw term loan is dependent on this judicial foreclosure process and there is no assurance that a judicial foreclosure sale will be completed, or, if completed, will result in the full satisfaction of all of the obligations under the brw term loan. our ability to enforce a deficiency judgment against brw in the event that the proceeds from the sale of the brw loan collateral in the judicial foreclosure are insufficient to repay the full amount of the brw term loan may be limited. any of these circumstances may lead to a loss or delay in the repayment of the brw term loan. further, the amount we receive from the foreclosure sale of the brw loan collateral may be inadequate to fully pay the amounts owed to us by brw and our costs incurred to foreclose, repossess and sell the property. in november 2019, united entered into a senior secured convertible term loan agreement (the "avh convertible loan agreement") with, among others, avh, as borrower, for the provision by the lenders thereunder (including united) to avh of convertible term loans for general corporate purposes. in december 2019, united provided such a convertible term loan to avh under the convertible loan agreement in the aggregate amount of $150 million (the "avh convertible loan"). see note 8 to the financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this report for additional information regarding our investments in avh and its affiliates. these transactions and relationships involve significant challenges and risks, particularly given avh's recent debt restructuring and the judicial foreclosure process to which the repayment of the brw term loan is subject. while avh has successfully carried out its debt restructuring plan to date, there is no guarantee that such debt restructuring plan will improve avh's long-term financial condition, united's exposure to which has increased with the completion of the avh convertible loan. while we work closely with avianca in connection with the jba, and have supported avh by providing capital in the form of the avh convertible loan, avianca is a separately certificated commercial air carrier, and we do not have control over its or avh's operations, strategy, management or business methods. avianca is also subject to a number of the same risks as our business, which are described in this part i, item 1a, risk factors, including competitive pressures on pricing, demand and capacity, changes in aircraft fuel pricing, and the impact of global and local political and economic conditions on operations and customer travel patterns, among others, as well as to its own distinct financial and operational risks. in addition, the value of the brw loan collateral and the collateral securing the avh convertible loan is subject to market and other conditions. changes in the aviation market may adversely affect the value of the brw loan collateral and the collateral securing the avh convertible loan and thereby lower the value to be derived from a foreclosure or other exercise of remedies with respect to the brw term loan agreement or the avh convertible loan. as a result of these and other factors, including delays in foreclosure proceedings, we may not receive full repayment of our brw term loan or our avh convertible loan, and we may be unable to realize the full value of the brw loan collateral or the collateral securing the avh convertible loan. as a consequence, we may not realize a satisfactory return on our invested or loaned funds with respect to avh and its affiliates. further, these investments may not generate the revenue or operational synergies we expect, and they may distract management focus from our operations or other strategic options. finally, our reliance on avianca in the region in which it operates may negatively impact our global operations and results if avh does not successfully recover from its debt restructuring or is otherwise impacted by general business risks or performs below our expectations or needs. any one or more of these events could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. the airline industry may undergo further change with respect to alliances and jbas or due to consolidations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the company. the company faces, and may continue to face, strong competition from other carriers due to the modification of alliances and formation of new jbas. carriers may improve their competitive positions through airline alliances, slot swaps and/or jbas. certain types of airline jbas further competition by allowing multiple airlines to coordinate routes, pool revenues and costs, 16 table of contents and enjoy other mutual benefits, achieving many of the benefits of consolidation. open skies agreements, including the longstanding agreements between the united states and each of the eu, canada, japan, korea, new zealand, australia, colombia and panama, as well as the more recent agreements between the united states and each of mexico and brazil, may also give rise to better integration opportunities among international carriers. movement of airlines between current global airline alliances could reduce joint network coverage for members of such alliances while also creating opportunities for jbas and bilateral alliances that did not exist before such realignment. further airline and airline alliance consolidations or reorganizations could occur in the future. the company routinely engages in analyses and discussions regarding its own strategic position, including current and potential alliances, asset acquisitions and divestitures and may have future discussions with other airlines regarding strategic activities. if other airlines participate in such activities, those airlines may significantly improve their cost structures or revenue generation capabilities, thereby potentially making them stronger competitors of the company and potentially impairing the company's ability to realize expected benefits from its own strategic relationships. orders for new aircraft typically must be placed years in advance of scheduled deliveries, and changes in the company's network strategy over time or other factors outside of the company's control may make aircraft on order less economic for the company, result in costs related to modification or termination of aircraft orders or cause the company to enter into orders for new aircraft on less favorable terms. the company's orders for new aircraft are typically made years in advance of actual delivery of such aircraft, and the financial commitment required for purchases of new aircraft is substantial. at december 31, 2019 , the company had firm commitments to purchase 304 new aircraft from the boeing company ("boeing"), airbus s.a.s ("airbus") and embraer s.a. ("embraer"), as well as related agreements with engine manufacturers, maintenance providers and others. as of december 31, 2019 , the company's commitments relating to the acquisition of aircraft and related spare engines, aircraft improvements and other related obligations aggregated to a total of $26.7 billion . subsequent to the company placing an order for new aircraft, the company's network strategy may change. as a result, the company's preference for a particular aircraft that it has ordered, often years in advance, may be decreased or eliminated. if the company were to modify or terminate any of its existing aircraft order commitments, it may be responsible for material liabilities to its counterparties arising from any such modification. additionally, the company may have a need for additional aircraft that are not available under its existing orders. in such cases, the company may seek to acquire aircraft from other sources, such as through lease arrangements, which may result in higher costs or less favorable terms, or through the purchase or lease of used aircraft. the company may not be able to acquire such aircraft when needed on favorable terms or at all. the imposition of new tariffs, or any increase in existing tariffs, on the importation of commercial aircraft that the company orders may result in higher costs. for example, in october 2019, the united states imposed tariffs on certain imports from the eu, including a customs duty at an ad valorem rate of 10% on new commercial aircraft, which rate, in february 2020, was increased to 15%. these tariffs apply to certain new airbus aircraft that we have on order. while the scope and rate of these tariffs are subject to change, if and to the extent these tariffs are imposed on us, they could increase the effective cost of, among other things, new airbus aircraft. a majority of the company's aircraft and certain parts are sourced from single suppliers; therefore, the company would be materially and adversely affected if it were unable to obtain timely deliveries, additional equipment or support from any of these suppliers. the company currently sources the majority of its aircraft and many related aircraft parts from boeing. in addition, our aircraft suppliers are dependent on other suppliers for certain other aircraft parts. therefore, if the company is unable to acquire additional aircraft from boeing, or if boeing fails to make timely deliveries of aircraft or to provide adequate support for its products, the company's operations could be materially and adversely affected. the company is also dependent on a limited number of suppliers for aircraft engines and certain other aircraft parts and could, therefore, also be materially and adversely affected in the event of the unavailability of these engines and other parts. union disputes, employee strikes or slowdowns, and other labor-related disruptions could adversely affect the company's operations and could result in increased costs that impair its financial performance. united is a highly unionized company. as of december 31, 2019 , the company and its subsidiaries had approximately 96,000 active employees, of whom approximately 84% were represented by various u.s. labor organizations. see part i, item 1. business employees, of this report for additional information on our represented employee groups and collective bargaining agreements. there is a risk that unions or individual employees might pursue judicial or arbitral claims arising out of changes implemented as a result of the company entering into collective bargaining agreements with its represented employee groups. there is also a possibility that employees or unions could engage in job actions such as slowdowns, work-to-rule campaigns, sick-outs or other 17 table of contents actions designed to disrupt the company's normal operations, in an attempt to pressure the company in collective bargaining negotiations. although the rla makes such actions unlawful until the parties have been lawfully released to self-help, and the company can seek injunctive relief against premature self-help, such actions can cause significant harm even if ultimately enjoined. similarly, if the operations of our third-party regional carriers, ground handlers or other vendors are impacted by labor-related disruptions, our operations could be adversely affected. in addition, collective bargaining agreements with the company's represented employee groups increase the company's labor costs, which increase could be material. an outbreak of disease or similar public health threat, such as the coronavirus, could have a material adverse impact on the company's business, operating results and financial condition. an outbreak of disease or similar public health threat, or fear of such an event, that affects travel demand, travel behavior, or travel restrictions could have a material adverse impact on the company's business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, outbreaks of disease could result in increased government restrictions and regulation, including quarantines of our personnel or an inability to access facilities or our aircraft, which could adversely affect our operations. in december 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus ("covid-19") was reported in wuhan, china. the world health organization has declared covid-19 to constitute a "public health emergency of international concern." on january 30, 2020, the u.s. department of state issued a level 4 "do not travel" advisory for china. the u.s. government has also implemented enhanced screenings, quarantine requirements and travel restrictions in connection with the covid-19 outbreak. the company has suspended its flights between the united states and each of beijing, chengdu, shanghai and hong kong through april 24, 2020. these routes represented approximately 5% of the company's 2020 planned capacity and the company's other trans-pacific routes represented an additional 10% of the company's 2020 planned capacity. as of the date of this report, the company is experiencing an approximately 100% decline in near-term demand to china and an approximately 75% decline in near-term demand on the rest of the company's trans-pacific routes. the extent of the impact of the covid-19 on the company's operational and financial performance will depend on future developments, including the duration and spread of the outbreak and related travel advisories and restrictions and the impact of the covid-19 on overall demand for air travel, all of which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. if traffic on the company's trans-pacific routes were to remain at these levels for an extended period, and/or routes in other parts of the company's network begin to see significant declines in demand, our results of operations for full year 2020 may be materially adversely affected. if we experience changes in, or are unable to retain, our senior management team or other key employees, our operating results could be adversely affected. much of our future success depends on the continued availability of skilled personnel with industry experience and knowledge, including our senior management team and other key employees. if we are unable to attract and retain talented, highly qualified senior management and other key employees, or if we are unable to effectively provide for the succession of senior management, our business may be adversely affected. extended interruptions or disruptions in service at major airports where we operate could have a material adverse impact on our operations. the airline industry is heavily dependent on business models that concentrate operations in major airports in the united states and throughout the world. an extended interruption or disruption at an airport where we have significant operations could have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. we operate principally through our domestic hubs in at newark, chicago o'hare, denver, houston bush, lax, guam, sfo and washington dulles. substantially all of our flights either originate in or fly into one of these locations. a significant interruption or disruption in service at one of our hubs or other airports where we have a significant presence resulting from atc delays, weather conditions, natural disasters, growth constraints, relations with third-party service providers, failure of computer systems, disruptions to government agencies or personnel (including as a result of government shutdowns), disruptions at airport facilities or other key facilities used by us to manage our operations, labor relations, power supplies, fuel supplies, terrorist activities, international hostilities or otherwise could result in the cancellation or delay of a significant portion of our flights and, as a result, could have a material impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. we have minimal control over the operation, quality or maintenance of these services or whether vendors will improve or continue to provide services that are essential to our business. the airline industry is subject to extensive government regulation, which imposes significant costs and may adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal oversight. compliance with u.s. and international regulations imposes significant costs and may have adverse effects on the company. laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges, both 18 table of contents domestically and internationally, have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce airline revenue. the airline industry is heavily taxed and additional taxation could negatively impact our business. united provides air transportation under certificates of public convenience and necessity issued by the dot. if the dot altered, amended, modified, suspended or revoked these certificates, it could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the dot also regulates consumer protection and, through its investigations or rulemaking authority, could impose restrictions that materially impact the company's business. the faa regulates the safety of united's operations. united operates pursuant to an air carrier operating certificate issued by the faa. the faa's regulations include stringent pilot flight and duty time requirements under part 117 of the federal aviation regulations, as well as minimum qualifications for air carrier first officers. these regulations have caused mainline airlines to hire regional pilots, while simultaneously significantly reducing the pool of new pilots from which regional carriers themselves can hire. although this is an industry issue, it directly affects the company and has required it to reduce regional partner flying, as several regional partners have experienced difficulty flying their schedules due to reduced pilot availability. from time to time, the faa also issues orders, airworthiness directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require material expenditures or operational restrictions by the company. these faa orders and directives have resulted in the temporary grounding of an entire aircraft type if the faa identifies design, manufacturing, maintenance or other issues requiring immediate corrective action (including the faa order grounding boeing 737 max aircraft). these faa directives or requirements could have a material adverse effect on the company. in 2018, the u.s. congress approved a five-year reauthorization for the faa, which encompasses significant aviation tax and policy-related issues. the law includes a range of policy changes related to airline customer service and aviation safety which are ongoing and, depending on how they are implemented, could impact our operations and costs. additionally, the u.s. congress may consider legislation related to aviation safety as well as environmental issues which could impact the company and the airline industry. the company's operations may also be adversely impacted due to the existing antiquated atc system utilized by the u.s. government and regulated by the faa. during peak travel periods in certain markets, the current atc system's inability to handle demand has led to short-term capacity constraints imposed by government agencies and resulted in delays and disruptions of air traffic. in addition, the current system will not be able to effectively handle projected future air traffic growth. the outdated technologies also cause the atc to be less resilient in the event of a failure, causing flight cancellations and delays. imposition of these atc constraints on a long-term basis may have a material adverse effect on the company's operations. failure to update the atc system in a timely manner and the substantial funding requirements of a modernized atc system that may be imposed on air carriers may have an adverse impact on the company's financial condition or operating results. access to landing and take-off rights, or "slots," at several major u.s. airports and many foreign airports served by the company are, or recently have been, subject to government regulation. certain of the company's major hubs are among the most congested airports in the united states and have been or could be the subject of regulatory action that might limit the number of flights and/or increase costs of operations at certain times or throughout the day. the faa may limit the company's airport access by limiting the number of departure and arrival slots at high density traffic airports, which could affect the company's ownership and transfer rights, and local airport authorities may have the ability to control access to certain facilities or the cost of access to their facilities, which could have an adverse effect on the company's business. the faa historically has taken actions with respect to airlines' slot holdings that airlines have challenged; if the faa were to take actions that adversely affect the company's slot holdings, the company could incur substantial costs to preserve its slots or may lose slots. if slots are eliminated at an airport, or if the number of hours of operation governed by slots is reduced at an airport, the lack of controls on take-offs and landings could result in greater congestion both at the affected airport or in the regional airspace (e.g., the new york city metropolitan region airspace) and could significantly impact the company's operations. further, the company's operating costs at airports, including the company's major hubs, may increase significantly because of capital improvements at such airports that the company may be required to fund, directly or indirectly. such costs could be imposed by the relevant airport authority without the company's approval and may have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition. the ability of carriers to operate flights on international routes between the united states and other countries is highly regulated. applicable arrangements between the united states and foreign governments may be amended from time to time, government policies with respect to airport operations may be revised, and the availability of appropriate slots or facilities may change. the company currently operates a number of flights on international routes under government arrangements, regulations or policies that designate the number of carriers permitted to operate on such routes, the capacity of the carriers providing services on such routes, the airports at which carriers may operate international flights, or the number of carriers allowed access to particular airports. any limitations, additions or modifications to such arrangements, regulations or policies could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition and operating results. additionally, a change in law, 19 table of contents regulation or policy for any of the company's international routes, such as open skies, could have a material adverse impact on the company's financial condition and operating results and could result in the impairment of material amounts of related tangible and intangible assets. in addition, competition from revenue-sharing jbas and other alliance arrangements by and among other airlines could impair the value of the company's business and assets on the open skies routes. the company's plans to enter into or expand u.s. antitrust immunized alliances and jbas on various international routes are subject to receipt of approvals from applicable u.s. federal authorities and obtaining other applicable foreign government clearances or satisfying the necessary applicable regulatory requirements. there can be no assurance that such approvals and clearances will be granted or will continue in effect upon further regulatory review or that changes in regulatory requirements or standards can be satisfied. see part i, item 1. business industry regulation, of this report for additional information on government regulation impacting the company. we are subject to many forms of environmental regulation and liability and risks associated with climate change, and may incur substantial costs as a result. many aspects of the company's operations are subject to increasingly stringent federal, state, local and international laws protecting the environment, including those relating to emissions to the air, water discharges, safe drinking water and the use and management of hazardous materials and wastes. compliance with existing and future environmental laws and regulations can require significant expenditures and violations can lead to significant fines and penalties. in addition, from time to time we are identified as a responsible party for environmental investigation and remediation costs under applicable environmental laws due to the disposal of hazardous substances generated by our operations. we could also be subject to environmental liability claims from various parties, including airport authorities, related to our operations at our owned or leased premises or the off-site disposal of waste generated at our facilities. we may incur substantial costs as a result of changes in weather patterns due to climate change. increases in the frequency, severity or duration of severe weather events such as thunderstorms, hurricanes, flooding, typhoons, tornados and other severe weather events could result in increases in delays and cancellations, turbulence-related injuries and fuel consumption to avoid such weather, any of which could result in significant loss of revenue and higher costs. to mitigate climate change risks, corsia has been developed by icao, a un specialized agency. corsia is intended to create a single global market-based measure to achieve carbon-neutral growth for international aviation after 2020 through airline purchases of carbon offset credits. certain corsia program details remain to be developed and could potentially be affected by political developments in participating countries or the results of the pilot phase of the program, and thus the impact of corsia cannot be fully predicted. however, corsia is expected to result in increased operating costs for airlines that operate internationally, including the company. in addition to corsia, the epa has begun preliminary work to adopt its own aircraft engine ghg emission standards, which were expected to be aligned with recent icao carbon dioxide emission standards. the timing of any u.s. epa aircraft engine ghg emission standards is currently unknown, but some jurisdictions in which united operates have adopted or are considering ghg emission reduction initiatives, which could impact various aspects of the company's business. the precise nature of future requirements and their applicability to the company are difficult to predict, but the financial impact to the company and the aviation industry would likely be adverse and could be significant. see part i, item 1. business industry regulation environmental regulation, of this report for additional information on environmental regulation impacting the company. the united kingdom's withdrawal from the eu may adversely impact our operations in the united kingdom and elsewhere. in june 2016, united kingdom ("uk") voters approved an advisory referendum for the uk to exit the eu. the uk parliament voted in favor of allowing the government to commence negotiations to determine the future terms of the uk's relationship with the eu, including the terms of trade between the uk and the eu and other nations. on january 31, 2020, the uk withdrew from the eu, and started a transition period that will potentially run through december 31, 2020. the nature and terms of the uk's relationship with the eu after the transition period remain uncertain. in connection with a uk exit from the eu, we could face new challenges in our operations, such as instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets. this instability could result in market volatility, including in the value of the british pound and european euro, additional travel restrictions on passengers traveling between the uk and other eu countries, changes to the legal status of eu-resident employees, legal uncertainty and divergent national laws and regulations. at this time, we cannot predict the impact that the uk's exit from the eu will have on our business generally and our uk and 20 table of contents european operations more specifically, and no assurance can be given that our operating results, financial condition and prospects would not be adversely impacted by the result. the company's operating results fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors associated with the airline industry, many of which are beyond the company's control. due to greater demand for air travel during the spring and summer months, revenues in the airline industry in the second and third quarters of the year are generally stronger than revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year, which are periods of lower travel demand. the company's operating results generally reflect this seasonality, but have also been impacted by numerous other factors that are not necessarily seasonal, including, among others, extreme or severe weather, outbreaks of disease or pandemics, atc congestion, geological events, political instability, terrorism, natural disasters, changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation, tax obligations, general economic conditions and other factors. as a result, the company's quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year and historical operating results in a quarterly or annual period are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. increases in insurance costs or inadequate insurance coverage may materially and adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. the company could be exposed to significant liability or loss if its property or operations were to be affected by a natural catastrophe or other event, including aircraft accidents. the company maintains insurance policies, including, but not limited to, terrorism, aviation hull and liability, workers' compensation and property and business interruption insurance, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. if the company is unable to obtain sufficient insurance with acceptable terms, the costs of such insurance increase materially, or if the coverage obtained is insufficient relative to actual liability or losses that the company experiences, whether due to insurance market conditions, policy limitations and exclusions or otherwise, our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. the company has a significant amount of financial leverage from fixed obligations, and insufficient liquidity may have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition and business. the company has a significant amount of financial leverage from fixed obligations, including aircraft lease and debt financings, leases of airport property and other facilities, and other material cash obligations. in addition, the company has substantial noncancelable commitments for capital expenditures, including for the acquisition of new aircraft and related spare engines. although the company's cash flows from operations and its available capital, including the proceeds from financing transactions, have been sufficient to meet these obligations and commitments to date, the company's future liquidity could be negatively affected by the risk factors discussed in this report. if the company's liquidity is materially diminished, the company might not be able to timely pay its leases and debts or comply with certain operating and financial covenants under its financing and credit card processing agreements or with other material provisions of its contractual obligations. the company's substantial level of indebtedness and non-investment grade credit rating, as well as market conditions and the availability of assets as collateral for loans or other indebtedness, may make it difficult for the company to raise additional capital if needed to meet its liquidity needs on acceptable terms, or at all. in addition, as of december 31, 2019 , the company had $3.4 billion in variable rate indebtedness, all or a portion of which uses london interbank offered rates ("libor") as a benchmark for establishing applicable rates. as announced in july 2017, libor is expected to be phased out by the end of 2021. although many of our libor-based obligations provide for alternative methods of calculating the interest rate payable if libor is not reported, the extent and manner of any future changes with respect to methods of calculating libor or replacing libor with another benchmark are unknown and impossible to predict at this time and, as such, may result in interest rates that are materially higher than current interest rates. if interest rates applicable to the company's variable interest indebtedness increase, the company's interest expense will also increase, which could make it difficult for the company to make interest payments and fund other fixed costs and, in turn, adversely impact our cash flow available for general corporate purposes. see part ii, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, of this report for additional information regarding the company's liquidity. 21 table of contents agreements governing our debt include financial and other covenants. failure to comply with these covenants could result in events of default. our financing agreements include various financial and other covenants. certain of these covenants require ual or united, as applicable, to maintain minimum liquidity and/or minimum collateral coverage ratios. ual's or united's ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond its control, including the overall industry revenue environment, the level of fuel costs and the appraised value of the collateral. in addition, our financing agreements contain other negative covenants customary for such financings. these covenants are subject to important exceptions and qualifications. if we fail to comply with these covenants and are unable to remedy or obtain a waiver or amendment, an event of default would result. if an event of default were to occur, the lenders could, among other things, declare outstanding amounts immediately due and payable. in addition, an event of default or declaration of acceleration under one financing agreement could also result in an event of default under other of our financing agreements due to cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions. the acceleration of significant amounts of debt could require us to renegotiate, repay or refinance the obligations under our financing arrangements. the company may never realize the full value of its intangible assets or its long-lived assets causing it to record impairments that may negatively affect its financial condition and operating results. in accordance with applicable accounting standards, the company is required to test its indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently where there is an indication of impairment. in addition, the company is required to test certain of its other assets for impairment where there is any indication that an asset may be impaired. the company may be required to recognize losses in the future due to, among other factors, extreme fuel price volatility, tight credit markets, government regulatory changes, decline in the fair values of certain tangible or intangible assets, such as aircraft, route authorities, airport slots and frequent flyer database, unfavorable trends in historical or forecasted results of operations and cash flows and an uncertain economic environment, as well as other uncertainties. for example, in 2019 and 2018, the company recorded impairment charges of $90 million and $206 million , respectively, associated with its hong kong routes, resulting in the full impairment of these assets. the company can provide no assurance that a material impairment loss of tangible or intangible assets will not occur in a future period. the value of the company's aircraft could be impacted in future periods by changes in supply and demand for these aircraft. such changes in supply and demand for certain aircraft types could result from the grounding of aircraft. an impairment loss could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition and operating results. any damage to our reputation or brand image could adversely affect our business or financial results. we operate in a public-facing industry and maintaining a good reputation is critical to our business. the company's reputation or brand image could be adversely impacted by any failure to maintain satisfactory practices for all of our operations and activities, any failure to achieve and/or make progress toward our environmental and sustainability goals, public pressure from investors or policy groups to change our policies, customer perceptions of our advertising campaigns, sponsorship arrangements or marketing programs, customer perceptions of our use of social media, or customer perceptions of statements made by us, our employees and executives, agents or other third parties. damage to our reputation or brand image or loss of customer confidence in our services could adversely affect our business and financial results, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 38 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rates. our net income is affected by fluctuations in interest rates (e.g. interest expense on variable rate debt and interest income earned on short-term investments). the company's policy is to manage interest rate risk through a combination of fixed and variable rate debt. the following table summarizes information related to the company's interest rate market risk at december 31 (in millions): 2019 2018 variable rate debt carrying value of variable rate debt at december 31 $ 3,408 $ 3,500 impact of 100 basis point increase on projected interest expense for the following year 33 35 fixed rate debt carrying value of fixed rate debt at december 31 11,144 9,945 fair value of fixed rate debt at december 31 11,736 9,901 impact of 100 basis point increase in market rates on fair value (458 ) (378 ) as announced in july 2017, libor is expected to be phased out by the end of 2021. uncertainty as to the nature of alternative reference rates and as to potential changes or other reforms to libor may adversely impact our interest rates and related interest expense. as of december 31, 2019, the company had $3.4 billion in variable rate indebtedness. see part ii, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations other liquidity matters, of this report, for more information on interest expense. a change in market interest rates would also impact interest income earned on our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. assuming our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments remain at their average 2019 levels, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in a corresponding increase in the company's interest income of approximately $47 million during 2020 . commodity price risk (aircraft fuel). the price of aircraft fuel can significantly affect the company's operations, results of operations, financial position and liquidity. our operational and financial results can be significantly impacted by changes in the price and availability of aircraft fuel. to provide adequate supplies of fuel, the company routinely enters into purchase contracts that are customarily indexed to market prices for aircraft fuel, and the company generally has some ability to cover short-term fuel supply and infrastructure disruptions at some major demand locations. the company's current strategy is to not enter into transactions to hedge fuel price volatility, although the company regularly reviews its policy based on market conditions and other factors. the company's 2020 forecasted fuel consumption is presently approximately 4.5 billion gallons, and based on this forecast, a one-dollar change in the price of a barrel of crude oil would change the company's annual fuel expense by approximately $108 million. foreign currency. the company generates revenues and incurs expenses in numerous foreign currencies. changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact the company's results of operations through changes in the dollar value of foreign currency-denominated operating revenues and expenses. some of the company's more significant foreign currency exposures include the canadian dollar, chinese renminbi, european euro, british pound and japanese yen. the company's current strategy is to not enter into transactions to hedge its foreign currency sales, although the company regularly reviews its policy based on market conditions and other factors. the result of a uniform 1% strengthening in the value of the u.s. dollar from december 31, 2019 levels relative to each of the currencies in which the company has foreign currency exposure would result in a decrease in pre-tax income of approximately $23 million for the year ending december 31, 2020 . this sensitivity analysis was prepared based upon projected 2020 foreign currency-denominated revenues and expenses as of december 31, 2019 . 38 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors. the following risk factors should be read carefully when evaluating the company business and the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other statements the company or its representatives make from time to time. any of the following risks could materially adversely affect the company business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. risks related to the company business the company may be unable to continue to comply with certain covenants in its amended credit facility and other agreements which, if not complied with, could accelerate repayment of the amended credit facility and similarly impact the company obligations under certain other agreements, thereby materially and adversely affecting the company liquidity. in february 2007, the company entered into an amended and restated revolving credit, term loan and guaranty agreement dated as of february 2, 2007 with jpmorgan chase bank, n.a, citicorp usa, inc., j.p. morgan securities inc., citigroup global markets, inc. and credit suisse securities (usa) llc (the amended credit facility ) after prepaying $972 million of its then outstanding credit facility debt. the amended credit facility requires compliance with certain covenants, which were further amended in may 2008. a summary of the current financial covenants includes the following: the company must maintain a ratio of ebitdar to the sum of the following fixed charges for such period: (a) cash interest expense and (b) cash aircraft operating rental expense. ebitdar represents earnings before interest expense net of interest income, income taxes, depreciation, amortization, aircraft rent and certain cash and non-cash charges as further defined by the amended credit facility. the other adjustments to ebitdar include items such as foreign currency transaction gains or losses, increases or decreases in our deferred revenue obligation, share-based compensation expense, non-recurring or unusual losses, any non-cash non-recurring charge or non-cash restructuring charge, a limited amount of cash restructuring charges, certain cash transaction costs incurred with financing activities and the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. the requirement to meet this ratio was suspended for the four quarters beginning with the second quarter of 2008 and ending with the first quarter of 2009, but such requirement resumes beginning in the second quarter of 2009. the required ratio for the periods ended june 30, 2009, september 30, 2009 and december 31, 2009 shall be computed based on three months ended june 30, 2009, the six months ended september 30, 2009 and the nine months ended december 31, 2009, respectively; and, the required ratio in subsequent quarters shall be computed based on the twelve months preceding each quarter-end. the company must also maintain a minimum unrestricted cash balance of $1.0 billion at any time. failure to comply with any applicable covenants in effect for any reporting period could result in a default under the amended credit facility. additionally, the amended credit facility contains a cross-default provision with respect to other credit arrangements that exceed $50 million. although the company was in compliance with all required financial covenants as of december 31, 2008, and the company is not required to comply with a fixed charge coverage ratio until the three month period ending june 30, 2009, continued compliance depends on many factors, some of which are beyond the company control, including the overall industry revenue environment and the level of fuel costs. there are no assurances that the company will continue to comply with its amended credit facility covenants. failure to comply with applicable covenants in any reporting period would result in a default under the amended credit facility, which could have a material adverse impact on the company depending on the company ability to obtain a waiver of, or otherwise mitigate, the impact of the default. 15 table of contents the company may be unable to continue to comply with certain covenants in agreements with financial institutions that process customer credit card transactions which, if not complied with, could materially and adversely affect the company liquidity. the company has agreements with financial institutions that process customer credit card transactions for the sale of air travel and other services. under certain of the company card processing agreements, the financial institutions either require, or have the right to require, that united maintain a reserve equal to a portion of advance ticket sales that have been processed by that financial institution, but for which the company has not yet provided the air transportation (referred to as relevant advance ticket sales ). as of december 31, 2008, the company had advance ticket sales of approximately $1.5 billion of which approximately $1.3 billion relates to credit card sales. in november 2008, united entered into an amendment for its card processing agreement with paymentech and jpmorgan chase bank (the amendment ) that suspends until january 20, 2010 the requirement for united to maintain additional cash reserves with this processor of bank cards (above the current cash reserve of $25 million at december 31, 2008) if united month-end balance of unrestricted cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments falls below $2.5 billion. in exchange for this benefit, united has granted the processor a security interest in certain of united owned aircraft with a current appraised value of at least $800 million. united also has agreed that such security interest collateralizes not only united obligations under the processing agreement, but also united obligations under united amended and restated co-branded card marketing services agreement. united has an option to terminate the amendment prior to january 20, 2010, in which event the parties prior credit card processing reserve arrangements under the processing agreement will go back into effect. after january 20, 2010, or in the event united terminates the amendment, and in addition to certain other risk protections provided to the processor, the amount of any such reserve will be determined based on the amount of unrestricted cash held by the company as defined under the amended credit facility. if the company unrestricted cash balance is more than $2.5 billion as of any calendar month-end measurement date, its required reserve will remain at $25 million. however, if the company unrestricted cash is less than $2.5 billion, its required reserve will increase to a percentage of relevant advance ticket sales as summarized in the following table: required % of total unrestricted cash balance(a) relevant advance ticket sales less than $2.5 billion 15 % less than $2.0 billion 25 % less than $1.0 billion 50 % (a) includes unrestricted cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments at month-end, including certain cash amounts already held in reserve, as defined by the agreement. if the november 2008 amendment had not been in effect as of december 31, 2008, the company would have been required to post an additional $132 million of reserves based on an actual unrestricted cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments balance of between $2.0 billion and $2.5 billion at december 31, 2008. united card processing agreement with american express expired on february 28, 2009 and was replaced by a new agreement on march 1, 2009 which has an initial five year term. as of december 31, 2008, there were no required reserves under this card agreement, and no reserves were required up through the date of expiration. under the new agreement, in addition to certain other risk protections provided to american express, the company will be required to provide reserves based primarily on its unrestricted cash 16 table of contents balance and net current exposure as of any calendar month-end measurement date, as summarized in the following table: required % of total unrestricted cash balance(a) net current exposure(b) less than $2.4 billion 15 % less than $2.0 billion 25 % less than $1.35 billion 50 % less than $1.2 billion 100 % (a) includes unrestricted cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments at month-end, including certain cash amounts already held in reserve, as defined by the agreement. (b) net current exposure equals relevant advance ticket sales less certain exclusions, and as adjusted for specified amounts payable between united and the processor, as further defined by the agreement. the new agreement permits the company to provide certain replacement collateral in lieu of cash collateral, as long as the company unrestricted cash is above $1.35 billion. such replacement collateral may be pledged for any amount of the required reserve up to the full amount thereof, with the stated value of such collateral determined according to the agreement. replacement collateral may be comprised of aircraft, slots and routes, real estate or other collateral as agreed between the parties. in the near term, the company will not be required to post reserves under the new american express agreement as long as unrestricted cash as measured at each month-end, and as defined in the agreement, is equal to or above $2.0 billion. if the terms of the new agreement had been in place at december 31, 2008, and ignoring the near term protection in the preceding sentence, the company would have been required to provide collateral of approximately $40 million. an increase in the future reserve requirements as provided by the terms of either or both the company material card processing agreements could materially reduce the company liquidity. the company may not be able to maintain adequate liquidity. while the company cash flows from operations and its available capital have been sufficient to meet its current operating expenses, lease obligations and debt service requirements to date, the company future liquidity could be negatively impacted by many factors including, but not limited to, substantial volatility in the price of fuel, declines in passenger and cargo demand associated with the weak global economy and deterioration of global financial systems. during 2008, particularly in the fourth quarter, the company experienced weaker demand for its services due to the current economic conditions. decreases in passenger and cargo demand resulting from a weak global economy have resulted in both lower passenger volumes and lower ticket fares, which have adversely impacted our liquidity and are expected to adversely impact our results of operations and liquidity in 2009. in addition, the company 2008 and planned 2009 capacity cuts may not be sufficient to address lower demand from a weak global economy. see economic and industry conditions constantly change and continued or worsening negative economic conditions in the united states and elsewhere may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, below, for further discussion of the adverse impacts of a weak economy on our operations. in 2008, fuel price changes had a more significant impact on liquidity than changes in demand for the company products and services. for example, the crude oil spot price rose to a record high of approximately $145 per barrel in july 2008. the company consolidated fuel cost, including the impact of fuel hedges, increased by more than $3.1 billion for the full year of 2008 as compared to 2007 primarily due to increased fuel prices, resulting in a significant negative impact on liquidity. furthermore, fuel prices continue to be extremely volatile which may negatively impact the company liquidity. additionally, the company fuel hedges require that it post cash collateral with applicable counterparties if crude oil prices change by specified amounts. the company provided cash collateral of 17 table of contents $965 million to its fuel derivative counterparties as of december 31, 2008, which decreased to $780 million as of january 19, 2009 primarily due to the settlement of december 2008 contracts. for more information on our aircraft fuel hedges, see note 13, fair value measurements and derivative instruments, in combined notes to consolidated financial statements and item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company current plans to address increased fuel prices and the weak global economy may not be successful in improving its results of operations and liquidity. in addition, the implementation of certain of these plans require the use of cash for such items as severance payments, lease termination fees, conversion of ted aircraft and facility closure costs, among others. these cash requirements reduce the company cash available for its ongoing operations. in addition, the economic downturn may have an adverse impact on travel demand, which may result in a negative impact on revenues and liquidity. as described above, the company is required to comply with certain financial covenants under its amended credit facility and certain of its credit card processing agreements. the factors noted above, among other things, may impair the company ability to comply with these covenants or could allow certain of our credit card processors to increase the required reserves on our advance ticket sales, which could have an adverse impact on the company financial position and liquidity, depending on its ability to obtain a waiver of, or otherwise mitigate, the impact of the default. if a default occurs under our amended credit facility, the cost to cure any such default may adversely impact our financial position and liquidity. our level of indebtedness, our non-investment grade credit rating and the current unfavorable credit market conditions may make it difficult for us to raise capital to meet liquidity needs and may increase our cost of borrowing. a higher cost of capital could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position and liquidity. see item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for further information regarding the company liquidity. economic and industry conditions constantly change and continued or worsening negative economic conditions in the united states and elsewhere may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our business and results of operations are significantly impacted by general economic and industry conditions. industry-wide passenger air travel varies from year to year. robust demand for our air transportation services depends largely on favorable general economic conditions, including the strength of the global and local economies, low unemployment levels, strong consumer confidence levels and the availability of consumer and business credit. for leisure travelers, air transportation is often a discretionary purchase that those consumers can eliminate from their spending in difficult economic times. in addition, during periods of poor economic conditions, businesses usually reduce the volume of their business travel, either due to cost-savings initiatives or as a result of decreased business activity requiring travel. the overall demand for air transportation in the u.s. has been negatively impacted by adverse changes and continued deterioration in the health of the u.s. and global economies which negatively impacted our results of operations for the year ended december 31, 2008, and could continue to have a significant negative impact on our future results of operations for an extended period of time. since the end of 2008, the outlook for key economic indicators has deteriorated and credit card activity and advance bookings have not been as strong as in the prior year. these factors are expected to negatively impact the company 2009 passenger and cargo revenues. in addition, decreases in cargo revenues due to lower demand have a disproportionate impact on our operating results as our cargo revenues generally have higher margins as compared to our passenger revenues. continuation or worsening of the current global recession may lead the company and other carriers to further reduce domestic or international capacity and may have a material adverse effect on the company revenues, results of operations and liquidity. 18 table of contents continued periods of historically high fuel costs or significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a material adverse impact on the company operating results. the company operating results have been, and continue to be, significantly impacted by changes in the supply or price of aircraft fuel, both of which are impossible to predict. the record-high fuel prices each year from 2005 through 2007 increased in 2008 to new record highs with the crude oil spot price reaching highs of approximately $145 per barrel in july of 2008. at times, united has not been able to increase its fares when fuel prices have risen due to the highly competitive nature of the airline industry, and it may not be able to do so in the future and such increases may not be sustainable in the highly competitive environment. in addition, fare increases may not totally offset the fuel price increase and may also reduce demand for air travel. from time to time, the company enters into hedging arrangements to protect against rising fuel costs. the company hedging programs may use significant amounts of cash due to posting of cash collateral in some circumstances, may not be successful in controlling fuel costs and may be limited due to market conditions and other factors. see note 13, fair value measurements and derivative instruments, in combined notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information on the company hedging programs. additional terrorist attacks or the fear of such attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, could negatively affect the company and the airline industry. the terrorist attacks of september 11, 2001 involving commercial aircraft severely and adversely impacted the company financial condition and results of operations, as well as prospects for the airline industry generally. among the effects experienced from the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks were substantial flight disruption costs caused by the faa-imposed temporary grounding of the u.s. airline industry fleet, significantly increased security costs and associated passenger inconvenience, increased insurance costs, substantially higher ticket refunds and significantly decreased traffic and revenue per revenue passenger mile ( yield ). additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of or the precautions taken in anticipation of such attacks (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights) could materially and adversely affect the company and the airline industry. the wars in iraq and afghanistan and additional international hostilities, including heightened terrorist activity, could also have a material adverse impact on the company financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. the company financial resources might not be sufficient to absorb the adverse effects of any further terrorist attacks or other international hostilities involving the united states or u.s. interests. the airline industry is highly competitive, susceptible to price discounting and may undergo further bankruptcy restructuring or industry consolidation. the u.s. airline industry is characterized by substantial price competition, especially in domestic markets. some of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources or lower-cost structures than united does, or both. in recent years, the market share held by low-cost carriers has increased significantly. large network carriers, like united, have often had a lack of pricing power within domestic markets. during 2008, aloha airlines, ata airlines, eos airlines, inc., frontier airlines and skybus airlines all filed for bankruptcy protection. other domestic and international carriers could restructure in bankruptcy or threaten to do so to reduce their costs. carriers operating under bankruptcy protection can operate in a manner that could be adverse to the company and could emerge from bankruptcy as more vigorous competitors. during 2008, the u.s. airline industry underwent consolidation with the merger of delta airlines, inc. and northwest airlines. there is ongoing speculation that further airline industry consolidation could occur in the future. united routinely monitors changes in the competitive landscape and engages in analysis and discussions regarding its strategic position, including alliances, asset acquisitions and 19 table of contents divestitures and business combinations. in 2008, the company announced its agreement to form a strategic alliance with continental airlines. this alliance may not realize all of the benefits of a merger. the company may have future discussions with other airlines regarding mergers and/or other strategic alternatives. if other airlines participate in merger activity, and united does not, those airlines may significantly improve their cost structures or revenue generation capabilities, thereby potentially making them stronger competitors of united. in addition, united and certain of its competitors announced significant capacity reductions during 2008. the company may not achieve necessary increases in unit revenue from the announced capacity reductions and unit costs may be adversely impacted by capacity reductions. further, certain of the company competitors may not reduce capacity or may increase capacity, thereby diminishing our expected benefit from capacity reductions. the poor economic environment may have an adverse impact on travel demand, which may result in a negative impact on revenues. additional security requirements may increase the company costs and decrease its revenues and traffic. since september 11, 2001, the dhs and the transportation security administration have implemented numerous security measures that affect airline operations and costs and are likely to implement additional measures in the future. in addition, foreign governments have also instituted additional security measures at foreign airports united serves. a substantial portion of the costs of these security measures is borne by the airlines and their passengers, increasing the company costs and/or reducing its revenue and traffic. additional measures taken to enhance either passenger or cargo security procedures and/or to recover associated costs in the future may result in similar adverse effects on united results of operations. extensive government regulation could increase the company operating costs and restrict its ability to conduct its business. airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements that result in significant costs. in addition to the enactment of the aviation security act, laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce airline revenue. the faa from time to time also issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require significant expenditures by united. the company expects to continue incurring material expenses to comply with the regulations of the faa and other agencies. united operates under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued by the dot. if the dot altered, amended, modified, suspended or revoked our certificate, it could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the faa can also limit united airport access by limiting the number of departure and arrival slots at high density traffic airports and local airport authorities may have the ability to control access to certain facilities or the cost of access to such facilities, which could have an adverse effect on the company business. in addition, access to landing and take-off rights or slots at several major u.s. airports and many foreign airports served by united are, or recently have been, subject to government regulation. as passenger travel has continued to increase in recent years, many u.s. and foreign airports have become increasingly congested. certain of united major hubs are among the more congested airports in the u.s. and have been or could be the subject of regulatory action that might limit the number of flights and/or increase costs of operations at certain times or throughout the day. in addition, the company operations may be adversely impacted due to the existing outdated air traffic control ( atc ) system utilized by the u.s. government. during peak travel periods in certain markets the current atc system inability to handle existing travel demand has led to short-term capacity constraints imposed by government agencies, as discussed above, and has also resulted in delays and disruptions of traffic using the atc system. in addition, the current system will not be able to effectively handle projected future air traffic growth. therefore, imposition of these atc constraints on 20 table of contents a long-term basis may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. failure to update the atc system in a timely manner, and the substantial funding requirements of a modernized atc system that may be imposed on carriers like united, may have an adverse impact on the company financial condition or results of operations. many aspects of united operations are also subject to increasingly stringent federal, state and local laws protecting the environment. future environmental regulatory developments, such as in regard to climate change, in the u.s. and abroad could adversely affect operations and increase operating costs in the airline industry. there are a few climate change laws and regulations that have gone into effect that apply to united, including environmental taxes for certain international flights, some limited greenhouse gas reporting requirements and some land-based planning laws which could apply to airports and ultimately impact airlines depending upon the circumstances. in addition, the eu has adopted legislation to include aviation within the eu existing greenhouse gas emission trading scheme effective in 2012. there are significant questions that remain as to the legality of applying the scheme to non-eu airlines and the u.s. and other governments are considering filing a legal challenge to the eu unilateral inclusion of non-eu carriers. while such a measure could significantly increase the costs of carriers operating in the eu, the precise cost to united is difficult to calculate with certainty due to a number of variables, and it is not clear whether the scheme will withstand legal challenge. there may be future regulatory actions taken by the u.s. government, state governments within the u.s., foreign governments, the international civil aviation organization, or through a new climate change treaty to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases by the aviation industry. such future regulatory actions are uncertain at this time (in terms of either the regulatory requirements or their applicability to united), but the impact to the company and its industry would likely be adverse and could be significant including the potential for increased fuel costs, carbon taxes or fees or a requirement to purchase carbon credits. the ability of u.s. carriers to operate international routes is subject to change because the applicable arrangements between the united states and foreign governments may be amended from time to time, or because appropriate slots or facilities may not be made available. united currently operates on a number of international routes under government arrangements that limit the number of carriers, capacity, or the number of carriers allowed access to particular airports. if an open skies policy were to be adopted for any of these routes, such an event could have a material adverse impact on the company financial position and results of operations and could result in the impairment of material amounts of related tangible and intangible assets. certain aspects of united proposed cooperation with continental through broad revenue and codesharing and other commercial cooperation and continental entry into the star alliance is subject to receipt of certain regulatory and other approvals and the termination of certain contractual relationships, including continental existing agreements with skyteam members that restrict its participation in another global alliance. the parties may not be successful in obtaining regulatory approval or the timing for termination of existing contractual relationships may be delayed. the company plans to enter into or expand antitrust immunized joint ventures for various international regions, involving continental, united and other members of the star alliance are subject to receipt of approvals from applicable national authorities or otherwise satisfying applicable regulatory requirements, and there can be no assurances that such approvals will be granted or applicable regulatory requirements will be satisfied. other air carriers are also seeking to initiate or expand antitrust immunity for joint ventures which, if approved, could adversely affect the company financial position and results of operations. further, the company operations in foreign countries are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in those countries. the company cannot provide any assurance that current laws and regulations, or laws or regulations enacted in the future, will not adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations. 21 table of contents the company results of operations fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors associated with the airline industry. due to greater demand for air travel during the summer months, revenues in the airline industry in the second and third quarters of the year are generally stronger than revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year. the company results of operations generally reflect this seasonality, but have also been impacted by numerous other factors that are not necessarily seasonal including, among others, the imposition of excise and similar taxes, extreme or severe weather, air traffic control congestion, changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation and other factors and general economic conditions. as a result, the company quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year and historical operating results in a quarterly or annual period are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. the company may never realize the full value of its intangible assets or our long-lived assets causing it to record impairments that may negatively affect its results of operations. in accordance with statement of financial accounting standards no. 142, goodwill and other intangible assets ( sfas 142 ) and statement of financial accounting standards no. 144, accounting for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets, ( sfas 144 ), the company is required to test certain of its intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis on october 1 of each year, or more frequently if conditions indicate that an impairment may have occurred. in addition, the company is required to test certain of its tangible assets for impairment if conditions indicate that an impairment may have occurred. during the second quarter of 2008, the company performed an interim impairment test of its goodwill, all indefinite-lived intangible assets and certain of its long-lived assets (principally aircraft and related spare engines and spare parts) due to events and changes in circumstances that indicated an impairment might have occurred. factors deemed by management to have collectively constituted a potential impairment triggering event included record high fuel prices, significant losses in 2008, a softening u.s. economy, analyst downgrade of ual common stock, rating agency changes in outlook for the company debt instruments from stable to negative, the announcement in 2008 of the planned removal from ual fleet of 100 aircraft and a significant decrease in the fair value of the company outstanding equity and debt securities during 2008, including a decline in ual market capitalization to significantly below book value. during the fourth quarter of 2008, the company performed its annual impairment test of intangible assets and determined that no additional impairment had occurred. in addition, due to certain conditions similar to those which triggered the second quarter 2008 impairment testing, in the fourth quarter of 2008, the company tested its b737 and b747 aircraft for additional impairment during the fourth quarter, including evaluating the fair value of those aircraft already removed from service, which resulted in additional impairment charges being recorded in the fourth quarter. as a result of the impairment testing performed in the second and fourth quarters of 2008, the company recorded goodwill and tangible and intangible asset impairment charges totaling approximately $2.6 billion during 2008. the company determined that goodwill was completely impaired. however, the company still has book values at december 31, 2008 of approximately $10.3 billion of operating property and equipment and $2.7 billion of intangible assets that could be subject to future impairment charges. we may be required to recognize additional impairments in the future due to, among other factors, extreme fuel price volatility, tight credit markets, a decline in the fair value of certain tangible or intangible assets, unfavorable trends in historical or forecasted operating or cash flow losses and the uncertain economic environment, as well as other uncertainties. the company can provide no assurance that a material impairment charge of tangible or intangible assets will not occur in a future period. the value of our aircraft could be impacted in future periods by changes in the market for these aircraft. such changes could result in a greater supply and lower demand for certain aircraft types as other 22 table of contents carriers are also grounding aircraft. an impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on the company financial position and results of operations in the period of recognition. the company initiatives to improve the delivery of its products and services to its customers, reduce costs, increase its revenues and increase shareholder value, including the operational plans recently initiated by the company, may not be adequate or successful. the company continues to identify and implement improvement programs to enhance the delivery of its products and services to its customers, reduce its costs and increase its revenues. in response to the unprecedented increase in fuel prices during 2008 and the weakening u.s. and global economies, the company began implementing certain operational plans. the company efforts are focused on cost savings in areas such as telecommunications, airport services, catering, maintenance materials, aircraft ground handling and regional affiliates expenses, among others. in addition, the company is significantly reducing mainline domestic and consolidated capacity and is removing 100 aircraft from its mainline fleet, including its entire b737 fleet of 94 aircraft and six b747 aircraft. united is also eliminating its ted product and reconfiguring that fleet 56 a320s to include united first class seats. see item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for further information regarding the company capacity reductions. the company will continue to review the deployment of all of our aircraft in various markets and the overall composition of our fleet to ensure that we are using our assets appropriately to provide the best available return. in connection with the capacity reductions, the company is further streamlining its operations and corporate functions in order to match the size of its workforce to the size of its operations. the company currently estimates a reduction of approximately 9,000 positions during 2008 and 2009, through a combination of furloughs and furlough-mitigation plans, such as early-out options. there can be no assurance that the company initiatives to reduce costs and increase revenues will be successful. the company is taking additional actions beyond the operational plans discussed above, including increased cost reductions, new revenue sources and other actions. certain of the company plans to improve its performance require the use of significant cash for such items as severance payments, lease termination fees, conversion of ted aircraft and facility closure costs, among others. the company is also reviewing strategic alternatives to maximize the value of its assets and its businesses, which may include a possible sale of all, or part of, these assets or operations. there can be no assurance that any transactions with respect to these assets or operations will occur, nor are there any assurances with respect to the form or timing of any such transactions or their actual effect on shareholder value. a number of the company ongoing initiatives involve significant changes to the company business that it may be unable to implement successfully. in addition, revenue and other initiatives may not be successful due to the competitive landscape of the industry and the reaction of our competitors to certain of our initiatives. the adequacy and ultimate success of the company programs and initiatives to improve the delivery of its products and services to its customers, reduce its costs and increase both its revenues and shareholder value cannot be assured. union disputes, employee strikes and other labor-related disruptions may adversely affect the company operations and impair its financial performance. approximately 83% of the employees of ual are represented for collective bargaining purposes by u.s. labor unions. these employees are organized into six labor groups represented by six different unions. relations between air carriers and labor unions in the united states are governed by the rla. under the rla, a carrier must maintain the existing terms and conditions of employment following the amendable date through a multi-stage and usually lengthy series of bargaining processes overseen by the national mediation board ( nmb ). this process continues until either the parties have reached agreement on a new collective bargaining agreement or the parties are released to self-help by the nmb. although in most circumstances the rla prohibits strikes, shortly after release by the nmb, carriers and unions are free to engage in self-help measures such as strikes and lock-outs. all six of the 23 table of contents company u.s. labor agreements become amendable in january 2010, with negotiations between the company and the labor unions scheduled to commence during 2009. the company can provide no assurance that a successful or timely resolution of labor negotiations for all amendable agreements will be achieved. there is also a risk that dissatisfied employees, either with or without union involvement, could engage in illegal slow-downs, work stoppages, partial work stoppages, sick-outs or other actions short of a full strike that could individually or collectively harm the operation of the airline and materially impair its financial performance. increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage may adversely impact the company operations and financial results. the terrorist attacks of september 11, 2001 led to a significant increase in insurance premiums and a decrease in the insurance coverage available to commercial airlines. accordingly, the company insurance costs increased significantly and its ability to continue to obtain certain types of insurance remains uncertain. the company has obtained third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance through a special program administered by the faa, resulting in lower premiums than if it had obtained this insurance in the commercial insurance market. should the government discontinue this coverage, obtaining comparable coverage from commercial underwriters could result in substantially higher premiums and more restrictive terms, if it is available at all. if the company is unable to obtain adequate war risk insurance, its business could be materially and adversely affected. if any of united aircraft were to be involved in an accident, the company could be exposed to significant liability. the insurance it carries to cover damages arising from any future accidents may be inadequate. if the company insurance is not adequate, it may be forced to bear substantial losses from an accident. the company relies heavily on automated systems to operate its business and any significant failure of these systems could harm its business. the company depends on automated systems to operate its business, including its computerized airline reservation systems, flight operations systems, telecommunication systems and commercial websites, including united.com. united website and reservation systems must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver important flight and schedule information, as well as process critical financial transactions. substantial or repeated website, reservations systems or telecommunication systems failures could reduce the attractiveness of united services versus its competitors and materially impair its ability to market its services and operate its flights. the company business relies extensively on third-party providers. failure of these parties to perform as expected, or unexpected interruptions in the company relationships with these providers or their provision of services to the company, could have an adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. the company has engaged a growing number of third-party service providers to perform a large number of functions that are integral to its business, such as operation of united express flights, operation of customer service call centers, provision of information technology infrastructure and services, provision of aircraft maintenance and repairs, provision of various utilities and performance of aircraft fueling operations, among other vital functions and services. the company does not directly control these third-party providers, although it does enter into agreements with many of them that define expected service performance. any of these third-party providers, however, may materially fail to meet their service performance commitments to the company. the failure of these providers to adequately perform their service obligations, or other unexpected interruptions of services, may reduce the company revenues and increase its expenses or prevent united from operating its flights and providing other services to its customers. in addition, the company business and financial performance could be materially harmed if its customers believe that its services are unreliable or unsatisfactory. 24 table of contents the company high level of fixed obligations could limit its ability to fund general corporate requirements and obtain additional financing, could limit its flexibility in responding to competitive developments and could increase its vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. the company has a significant amount of financial leverage from fixed obligations, including its amended credit facility, aircraft lease and debt financings, leases of airport property and other facilities, and other material cash obligations. in addition, as of december 31, 2008, the company had pledged a substantial amount of its assets as collateral to secure its various fixed obligations. the company high level of fixed obligations, a downgrade in the company credit ratings or poor credit market conditions could impair its ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, and reduce its flexibility to conduct its business. certain of the company existing indebtedness also requires it to meet covenants and financial tests to maintain ongoing access to those borrowings. see note 12, debt obligations and card processing agreements, in combined notes to consolidated financial statements for further details related to the company credit agreements and assets pledged as collateral. a failure to timely pay its debts or other material uncured breach of its contractual obligations could result in a variety of adverse consequences, including the acceleration of the company indebtedness, the withholding of credit card sale proceeds by its credit card service providers and the exercise of other remedies by its creditors and equipment lessors that could result in material adverse effects on the company operations and financial condition. in such a situation, it is unlikely that the company would be able to fulfill its obligations to repay the accelerated indebtedness, make required lease payments, or otherwise cover its fixed costs. the company net operating loss carry forward may be limited or possibly eliminated. as of december 31, 2008, the company had a net operating loss ( nol ) carry forward tax benefit of approximately $2.6 billion for federal and state income tax purposes that primarily originated before ual emergence from bankruptcy and will expire over a five to twenty year period. this tax benefit is mostly attributable to federal pre-tax nol carry forwards of $7.0 billion. if the company were to have a change of ownership within the meaning of section 382 of the internal revenue code, under certain conditions, its annual federal nol utilization could be limited to an amount equal to its market capitalization at the time of the ownership change multiplied by the federal long-term tax exempt rate. a change of ownership under section 382 of the internal revenue code is defined as a cumulative change of 50 percentage points or more in the ownership positions of certain stockholders owning 5% or more of the company common stock over a three year rolling period. to reduce the risk of a potential adverse effect on the company ability to utilize its nol carry forward for federal income tax purposes, ual restated certificate of incorporation contains a 5% ownership limitation, applicable to all stockholders except the pension benefit guaranty corporation ( pbgc ). the 5% ownership limitation remains effective until february 1, 2011. the 5% ownership limitation prohibits (i) the acquisition by a single stockholder of shares representing 5% or more of the common stock of ual corporation and (ii) any acquisition or disposition of common stock by a stockholder that already owns 5% or more of ual corporation common stock, unless prior written approval is granted by the ual board of directors. the percentage ownership of a single stockholder can be computed by dividing the number of shares of common stock held by the stockholder by the sum of the shares of common stock issued and outstanding plus the number of shares of common stock still held in reserve for payment to unsecured creditors under the plan of reorganization. for additional information regarding the 5% ownership limitation, please refer to ual restated certificate available on its website. while the purpose of these transfer restrictions is to prevent a change of ownership from occurring within the meaning of section 382 of the internal revenue code (which ownership change might materially and adversely affect the company ability to utilize its nol carry forward or other tax attributes), no assurance can be given that such an ownership change will not occur, in which case the availability of the company substantial nol carry forward and other federal income tax attributes might be significantly limited or possibly eliminated. any transfers of common stock that are made in violation of the restrictions set forth above will be void and, pursuant to ual restated certificate of 25 table of contents incorporation, will be treated as if such transfer never occurred. this provision may prevent a sale of common stock by a stockholder or adversely affect the price at which a stockholder can sell common stock and consequently make it more difficult for a stockholder to sell shares of common stock. in addition, this limitation may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of ual, creating a perception that a change in control cannot occur or otherwise discouraging takeover attempts that some stockholders may consider beneficial, which could also adversely affect the prevailing market price of the common stock. ual cannot predict the effect that this provision in the ual restated certificate of incorporation may have on the market price of the common stock. the company is subject to economic and political instability and other risks of doing business globally. the company is a global business with operations outside of the united states from which it derives approximately one-third of its operating revenues, as measured and reported to the dot. the company operations in asia, latin america, the middle east and europe are a vital part of its worldwide airline network. volatile economic, political and market conditions in these international regions may have a negative impact on the company operating results and its ability to achieve its business objectives. in addition, significant or volatile changes in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and other currencies, and the imposition of exchange controls or other currency restrictions, may have a material adverse impact upon the company liquidity, revenues, costs and operating results. the company could be adversely affected by an outbreak of a disease that affects travel behavior. an outbreak of a disease that affects travel demand or travel behavior, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome ( sars ) or avian flu, or other illness, could have a material adverse impact on the company business, financial condition and results of operations. certain provisions of ual governance documents could discourage or delay changes of control or changes to the board of directors of ual. certain provisions of the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws of ual (the governance documents ) may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of ual board of directors and may discourage takeover attempts that some of its stockholders may consider beneficial. certain provisions of the governance documents may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if ual board of directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of ual and its stockholders. these provisions of the governance documents are not intended to prevent a takeover, but are intended to protect and maximize the value of ual stockholders interests. while these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of ual to negotiate with the ual board of directors, they could enable the board of directors to prevent a transaction that some, or a majority, of its stockholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. the issuance of ual contingent senior unsecured notes could adversely impact results of operations, liquidity and financial position and could cause dilution to the interests of its existing stockholders. in connection with the company emergence from chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, ual is obligated under an indenture to issue to the pbgc 8% senior unsecured notes with an aggregate principal amount of up to $500 million in up to eight equal tranches of $62.5 million (with no more than one tranche issued as a result of each issuance trigger event) upon the occurrence of certain financial triggering events. an issuance trigger event occurs when the company ebitdar (as defined in the indenture) exceeds $3.5 billion over the prior twelve months ending june 30 or december 31 of any applicable fiscal year, beginning with the fiscal year ending december 31, 2009 and ending with the fiscal year ending december 31, 2017. however, if the issuance of a tranche would cause a default under any 26 table of contents other securities then existing, ual may satisfy its obligations with respect to such tranche by issuing ual common stock having a market value equal to $62.5 million. the issuance of these notes could adversely impact the company results of operations because of increased interest expense related to the notes and adversely impact its financial position or liquidity due to increased cash required to meet interest and principal payments. if common stock is issued in lieu of debt, this could cause additional dilution to existing ual stockholders. see risks related to ual common stock, below, for additional information regarding other risks related to our common stock. risks related to ual common stock the issuance of additional shares of ual common stock, including upon conversion of its convertible notes, could cause dilution to the interests of its existing stockholders. in connection with the company emergence from chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, ual issued approximately $150 million in convertible 5% notes and subsequently issued approximately $726 million in convertible 4.5% notes on july 25, 2006. holders of these securities may convert them into shares of ual common stock according to their terms. see note 12, debt obligations and card processing agreements, in combined notes to consolidated financial statements for further information regarding these instruments. ual certificate of incorporation authorizes up to one billion shares of common stock. in certain circumstances, ual can issue shares of common stock without stockholder approval. in the fourth quarter of 2008, the ual board of directors approved the issuance of $200 million of common stock as part of an ongoing equity offering by the company. ual issued 11.2 million shares of common stock during 2008 and 4.0 million shares during 2009, resulting in gross proceeds of $172 million, and may issue additional shares during 2009 until it reaches $200 million in proceeds. in addition, the ual board of directors is authorized to issue up to 250 million shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of ual stockholders. the ual board of directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any series of shares of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, conversion rights, dividend rights, preferences over ual common stock with respect to dividends or if ual liquidates, dissolves or winds up its business and other terms. if ual issues preferred stock in the future that has a preference over its common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon its liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if ual issues preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of its common stock, the rights of holders of its common stock or the market price of its common stock could be adversely affected. ual is also authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, other securities convertible into either preferred stock or, in certain circumstances, common stock. in the future ual may decide to raise additional capital through offerings of its common stock, securities convertible into its common stock, or rights to acquire these securities or its common stock. the issuance of additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock could result in dilution of existing stockholders equity interests in ual. issuances of substantial amounts of its common stock, or the perception that such issuances could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for ual common stock and ual cannot predict the effect this dilution may have on the price of its common stock. ual certificate of incorporation limits voting rights of certain foreign persons. ual restated certificate of incorporation limits the total number of shares of equity securities held by persons who are not citizens of the united states, as defined in section 40102(a)(15) of title 49 united states code, to no more than 24.9% of the aggregate votes of all equity securities outstanding. this restriction is applied pro rata among all holders of equity securities who fail to qualify as citizens of the united states, based on the number of votes the underlying securities are entitled to. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 74 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate risks. united exposure to market risk associated with changes in interest rates relates primarily to its debt obligations and short-term investments. the company does not use derivative financial instruments in its investment portfolio. united policy is to manage interest rate risk through a combination of fixed and variable rate debt and by entering into swap agreements, depending upon market conditions. a portion of united aircraft lease obligations and related accrued interest ($306 million in equivalent u.s. dollars at december 31, 2008) is denominated in foreign currencies that expose the company to risks associated with changes in foreign exchange rates. to hedge against this risk, united has placed foreign currency deposits ($306 million in equivalent u.s. dollars at december 31, 2008), primarily for euros, to meet foreign currency lease obligations denominated in that respective currency. since unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses on the foreign currency deposits are offset by the losses or gains on the foreign currency obligations, united has hedged its overall exposure to foreign currency exchange rate volatility with respect to its foreign lease deposits and obligations. the fair value of these deposits is determined based on the present value of future cash flows using an appropriate swap rate. the fair value of long-term debt is predominantly based on the present value of future cash flows using a u.s. treasury rate that matches the remaining life of the instrument, adjusted by a credit spread and, to a lesser extent, on the quoted market prices for the same or similar instruments. the table below presents information as of december 31, 2008 about certain of the company financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest and exchange rates. amounts shown below are the same for both ual and united, except as noted. 2008 2007 expected maturity date fair fair (dollars in millions) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 thereafter total value total value ual assets cash equivalents fixed rate(a) $ 2,039 $ $ $ $ $ $ 2,039 $ 2,039 $ 3,554 $ 3,554 avg. interest rate 1.02 % 1.02 % 5.08 % lease deposits fixed rate eur deposits $ 21 $ 228 $ 15 $ $ $ $ 264 $ 330 $ 428 $ 511 accrued interest 7 28 7 42 69 avg. interest rate 3.95 % 6.86 % 4.41 % 6.45 % 6.54 % fixed rate usd deposits $ $ 11 $ $ $ $ $ 11 $ 21 $ 11 $ 20 accrued interest 9 9 8 avg. interest rate 6.49 % 6.49 % 6.49 % ual long-term debt(a) u. s. dollar denominated variable rate debt $ 205 $ 262 $ 186 $ 186 $ 207 $ 1,594 $ 2,640 $ 1,524 $ 2,510 $ 2,405 avg. interest rate 3.40 % 3.34 % 3.26 % 3.19 % 3.11 % 3.02 % 3.24 % 6.18 % fixed rate debt $ 577 $ 690 $ 683 $ 228 $ 61 $ 2,149 $ 4,388 $ 2,668 $ 4,834 $ 4,391 avg. interest rate 6.38 % 6.24 % 6.11 % 5.89 % 5.78 % 5.73 % 6.09 % 6.40 % (a) amounts also represent united except that in 2008, united carrying value and fair value of its cash equivalents and debt obligations are approximately $6 million and $2 million, respectively, lower than the reported ual amounts. the reported 2007 cash equivalents balance includes cash of $1.3 billion with a weighted average rate of 5.12% and short-term investments of $2.3 billion with a weighted average rate of 5.04%. united 2007 cash equivalents and debt obligations were approximately $56 million and $3 million, respectively, lower than the amounts reported for ual. in addition to the cash equivalents included in the table above, ual and united have $54 million and $50 million of short-term restricted cash, respectively, and $218 million and $217 million, respectively, of long-term restricted cash. as discussed in note 1(d), summary of significant accounting policies cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and restricted cash in combined notes to consolidated financial statements , this cash is being held in restricted accounts primarily for workers compensation obligations, security deposits for airport leases and reserves with institutions that process united credit card ticket sales. due to the short term nature of these cash balances, their carrying values approximate their fair values. the company interest income is exposed to changes in interest rates on these cash balances. during 2007, the company also repurchased certain of its own debt instruments, which remain outstanding and have a fair value and carrying value of $46 million at 74 table of contents december 31, 2008. the company recognizes changes in fair value of these securities through other comprehensive income; however, on a net basis, the company is not exposed to market risk due to the existence of offsetting changes in the fair value of the company related debt obligations. the material changes in the amounts reported in the table above for 2008 as compared to 2007 include the following: (1) cash and short-term investments decreased by approximately $1.5 billion primarily due to cash used for operating activities as discussed in liquidity above; (2) lease deposits decreased by $190 million due to scheduled payments and aircraft acquisitions under lease agreement terms; and (3) debt obligations decreased by $316 million primarily due to scheduled debt repayments in 2008, which were partially offset by new debt issuances in 2008. the interest rate on the company cash and variable rate debt decreased in 2008, as compared to 2007, primarily due to a decrease in market interest rates. commodity price risk (jet fuel). our results of operations and liquidity have been, and may continue to be, materially impacted by changes in the price of aircraft fuel and other oil-related commodities and related derivative instruments. when market conditions indicate risk reduction is achievable, united may use commodity option contracts or other derivative instruments to reduce its price risk exposure to jet fuel. the company derivative positions are typically comprised of crude oil, heating oil and jet fuel derivatives. the derivative instruments are designed to provide protection against increases in the price of aircraft fuel. some derivative instruments may result in hedging losses if the underlying commodity prices drop below specified floors; however, the negative impact of these losses may be offset by the benefit of lower jet fuel acquisition cost since the company typically does not hedge all of its fuel consumption. united may adjust its hedging program based on changes in market conditions. at december 31, 2008, the fair value of united fuel-related derivatives was a payable of $867 million, as compared to a receivable of $20 million at december 31, 2007. the primary reason for this change was due to the dramatic spike in fuel prices through july 2008 and the subsequent fuel price decreases in the latter part of 2008. at december 31, 2008, the fuel derivative payables includes $140 million related to pending settlements for purchased options and expired contracts. as of december 31, 2008, the company had hedged its forecasted consolidated fuel consumption as shown in the table below. percentage of projected barrels hedged (in 000s) weighted-average price per barrel fuel payment payment hedge hedge requirements purchased sold purchased sold obligations obligations protection protection hedged(a) puts puts(a) calls calls stop begin begins ends first quarter 2009: % $ $ $ $ calls 14 1,975 na na 83 (b) na collars 9 (10) 1,425 1,275 na 109 118 na 3-way collars 25 (29) 4,125 3,525 3,525 na 104 118 143 4-way collars 2 225 225 225 225 63 78 95 135 total 50 225 5,775 7,000 3,750 purchased puts 35 4,925 57 na na na full year 2009: calls 9 5,350 na na 81 (c) na collars 5 (6) 3,450 2,775 na 111 123 na 3-way collars 18 (22) 12,525 10,350 10,350 na 102 118 147 4-way collars 2 900 900 900 900 63 78 95 135 total 34 900 16,875 19,375 11,250 purchased puts 17 9,500 54 na na na calls purchased from january 1, 2009 to january 16, 2009: first quarter 2009 4 525 na na 54 na full year 2009 2 1,350 na na 59 na 75 table of contents (a) percent of expected consumption represents the notional amount of the purchased calls in the hedge structures. certain 3-way collars and collars included in the table above have sold puts with twice the notional amount of the purchased calls. the percentages in parentheses represent the notional amount of sold puts in these hedge structures. (b) call position average includes the following two groupings of positions: 6% of consumption with protection beginning at $47 per barrel and 8% of consumption beginning at $106 per barrel. (c) call position average includes the following two groupings of positions: 4% of consumption with protection beginning at $50 per barrel and 5% of consumption beginning at $106 per barrel. as presented in the table above, in 2008 the company began modifying its fuel hedge portfolio by purchasing put options contracts to effectively cap losses on its short put option positions from further oil price decreases. the company may take additional actions to reduce potential losses and collateral requirements that could arise from its short put option positions. certain 3-way collars and collars included in the table above have sold puts with twice the notional amount of the purchased calls. the company exposure to losses, should the positions settle below the put exercise price, exceeds its potential benefit from price increases above the purchased call exercise price. the company classifies gains (losses) resulting from these collar structures as nonoperating income (expense). as of december 31, 2008, the company had hedged less than 1% of its 2010 forecasted fuel consumption. the above derivative positions are subject to potential counterparty cash collateral requirements in some circumstances. the company provided counterparties with cash collateral of $965 million as of december 31, 2008. this collateral decreased to $780 million as of january 19, 2009 primarily due to the settlement of the december 2008 contracts. our counterparties may require greater amounts of collateral when the price of the underlying commodity decreases and lesser amounts when the price of the underlying commodity increases. however, the company has mitigated some of its exposure to larger collateral requirements by purchasing puts to cover its short put positions as presented in the table above. the following table presents the company actual collateral position as of january 19, 2009 and estimated fuel collateral position at the end of each quarter in 2009 based on the company january 16, 2009 hedge positions and closing forward curve fuel prices: actual projected january 19, march 31, june 30, september 30, december 31, (in millions) 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 $ 780 $ 615 $ 315 $ 110 $ 25 because united had already posted significant amounts of collateral during 2008, the 2009 net cash impacts of the hedge settlements are not expected to be material based on january 16, 2009 forward curve prices and the company january 16, 2009 hedge position. as hedges settle, this collateral will be returned to cover cash settled losses. the following table presents information regarding estimated fuel purchase cost and estimated cash requirements to meet fuel hedge losses based on the company actual collateral position as of january 19, 2009 using closing forward fuel prices as of january 16, 2009 and other factors. 2009 (price per gallon) 1st quarter 2nd quarter 3rd quarter 4th quarter full year unhedged fuel cost(a) $ 1.73 $ 1.79 $ 1.89 $ 1.91 $ 1.83 cash hedge losses(b) 0.49 0.39 0.26 0.09 0.31 (in millions) cash hedge losses classified in nonoperating expense(c) $ 81 $ 111 $ 53 $ 52 $ 297 (a) per gallon amount based on assumed cash requirements for fuel purchases, including related taxes and transportation costs (b) per gallon amount based on assumed cash requirements for settlement of economic hedge contracts that have gains or losses classified within mainline fuel expense. (c) assumed cash requirements for settlement of hedge contracts that are classified in nonoperating expense. 76 table of contents actual collateral requirements, fuel purchase costs and cash requirements for hedge losses will vary depending on changes in forward fuel prices, modifications to the company fuel hedge portfolio and other factors. the table below outlines the company estimated collateral provisions at various crude oil prices, based on the hedge portfolio as of january 16, 2009. approximate change in cash collateral for each price of crude oil, in dollars per barrel $5 per barrel change in the price of crude oil above $105 no collateral required at or above $85, but below $105 $45 million at or above $25, but below $85 $60 million below $25 $40 million for example, using the table above, at an illustrative $35 per barrel at january 16, 2009, the company required collateral provision to its derivative counterparties would be approximately $780 million. foreign currency. united generates revenues and incurs expenses in numerous foreign currencies. such expenses include fuel, aircraft leases, commissions, catering, personnel expense, advertising and distribution costs, customer service expenses and aircraft maintenance. changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact the company results of operations through changes in the dollar value of foreign currency-denominated operating revenues and expenses. despite the adverse effects a strengthening foreign currency may have on demand for u.s.-originating traffic, a strengthening of foreign currencies tends to increase reported revenue and operating income because the company foreign currency-denominated operating revenue generally exceeds its foreign currency-denominated operating expense for each currency. likewise, despite the favorable effects a weakening foreign currency may have on demand for u.s.-originating traffic, a weakening of foreign currencies tends to decrease reported revenue and operating income. the company most significant net foreign currency exposures in 2008, based on exchange rates in effect at december 31, 2008, are presented in the table below: (in millions) operating revenue net of operating expense currency foreign currency value usd value chinese renminbi 2,440 $ 357 canadian dollar 263 216 european euro 71 99 hong kong dollar 714 92 australian dollar 106 74 the company uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge a portion of its exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. as of december 31, 2008, the company hedged a portion of its expected foreign currency cash flows in the australian dollar, canadian dollar and european euro. as of december 31, 2008, the notional amount of these foreign currencies hedged with the forward contracts in u.s. dollars was approximately $62 million, based on contractual forward rates. these contracts had a fair value of $10 million at december 31, 2008 and expire at various dates through march 2009. as of december 31, 2007, the notional amount of these foreign currencies hedged with the forward contracts in u.s. dollars terms was approximately $346 million, with a fair value of $1 million. 77 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors. the following risk factors should be read carefully when evaluating the company's business and the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other statements the company or its representatives make from time to time. any of the following risks could materially adversely affect the company's business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. risks related to the company's business continued periods of historically high fuel costs or significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a material adverse impact on the company's operating results. the company's operating results have been and continue to be significantly impacted by changes in the supply or price of aircraft fuel. it is impossible to predict the future supply or price of aircraft fuel. the record-high fuel prices in 2005 and 2006 increased further in 2007 to new record highs with the price of crude oil reaching nearly $100 per barrel. at times, united has not been able to increase its fares when fuel prices have risen due to the highly competitive nature of the airline industry, and it may not be able to do so in the future. in addition, fare increases may not totally offset the fuel price increase and may also reduce demand for air travel. from time to time, the company enters into hedging arrangements to protect against rising fuel costs. the company's hedging programs may not be successful in controlling fuel costs and may be limited due to market conditions and other factors. additional terrorist attacks or the fear of such attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, could negatively affect the company and the airline industry. the terrorist attacks of september 11, 2001 involving commercial aircraft severely and adversely affected the company's financial condition and results of operations, as well as prospects for the airline industry generally. among the effects experienced from the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks were substantial flight disruption costs caused by the faa-imposed temporary grounding of the u.s. airline industry's fleet, significantly increased security costs and associated passenger inconvenience, increased insurance costs, substantially higher ticket refunds and significantly decreased traffic and revenue per revenue passenger mile ("yield"). additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of or the precautions taken in anticipation of such attacks (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights) could materially and adversely affect the company and the airline industry. the war in iraq and additional international hostilities, including heightened terrorist activity, could also have a material adverse impact on the company's financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. the company's financial resources might not be sufficient to absorb the adverse effects of any further terrorist attacks or an increase in post-war unrest in iraq or other international hostilities involving the united states or u.s. interests. the airline industry is highly competitive, susceptible to price discounting and may undergo consolidation. the u.s. airline industry is characterized by substantial price competition, especially in domestic markets. some of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources or lower-cost structures than united does, or both. in recent years, the market share held by lccs has increased significantly. large network carriers, like united, have often had a lack of pricing power within domestic markets. in addition, northwest airlines, inc. and delta air lines, inc. completed their reorganizations under bankruptcy protection in 2007. other carriers could file for bankruptcy or threaten to do so to reduce their costs. carriers operating under bankruptcy protection can operate in a manner that could be adverse to the company and could emerge from bankruptcy as more vigorous competitors. 15 from time to time the u.s. airline industry has undergone consolidation, as in the merger of us airways and america west, and may experience additional consolidation in the future. united routinely monitors changes in the competitive landscape and engages in analysis and discussions regarding its strategic position, including alliances, asset acquisitions and business combinations. there is ongoing speculation that some type of airline industry consolidation could occur in the near-term. the company has had, and expects to continue to have, discussions with other airlines regarding strategic alternatives. if other airlines participate in merger activity, and united does not, those airlines may significantly improve their cost structures or revenue generation capabilities, thereby potentially making them stronger competitors of united. additional security requirements may increase the company's costs and decrease its revenues and traffic. since september 11, 2001, the dhs and the tsa have implemented numerous security measures that affect airline operations and costs, and are likely to implement additional measures in the future. in addition, foreign governments have also instituted additional security measures at foreign airports united serves. a substantial portion of the costs of these security measures is borne by the airlines and their passengers, increasing the company's costs and/or reducing its revenue and traffic. additional measures taken to enhance either passenger or cargo security procedures and/or to recover associated costs in the future may result in similar adverse effects on united's results of operations. extensive government regulation could increase the company's operating costs and restrict its ability to conduct its business. airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements that result in significant costs. in addition to the enactment of the aviation security act, laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce airline revenue. the faa from time to time also issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require significant expenditures by united. the company expects to continue incurring material expenses to comply with the regulations of the faa and other agencies. united operates under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued by the dot. if the dot altered, amended, modified, suspended or revoked our certificate, it could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the faa can also limit united's airport access by limiting the number of departure and arrival slots at "high density traffic airports" and local airport authorities may have the ability to control access to certain facilities or the cost of access to such facilities, which could have an adverse effect on the company's business. in addition, access to landing and take-off rights or "slots" at several major u.s. airports and many foreign airports served by united are, or recently have been, subject to government regulation. as passenger travel has continued to increase in recent years, many u.s. and foreign airports have become increasingly congested. certain of united's major hubs are among the more congested airports in the u.s. and have been or could be the subject of regulatory action that might limit the number of flights and/or increase costs of operations at certain times or throughout the day. in addition, the company's operations may be adversely impacted due to the existing outdated air traffic control ("atc") system utilized by the u.s. government. during peak travel periods in certain markets the current atc system's inability to handle existing travel demand has led to short-term capacity constraints imposed by government agencies as discussed above, and has also resulted in delays and disruptions of traffic using the atc system. in addition, the current system will not be able to effectively handle projected future air traffic growth. therefore, imposition of these air traffic constraints on a long-term basis may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. failure to update the atc system in a timely manner, and the substantial funding requirements of a 16 modernized atc system that may be imposed on carriers like united, may have an adverse impact on the company's financial condition or results of operations. many aspects of united's operations are also subject to increasingly stringent federal, state and local laws protecting the environment. future regulatory developments in the u.s. and abroad could adversely affect operations and increase operating costs in the airline industry. for example, potential future actions that may be taken by the u.s. government, state governments within the u.s., foreign governments, or the international civil aviation organization to limit the emission of greenhouse gases by the aviation industry are uncertain at this time, but the impact to the company and its industry would likely be adverse and could be significant including the potential for increased fuel costs, carbon taxes or fees or a requirement to purchase carbon credits. the ability of u.s. carriers to operate international routes is subject to change because the applicable arrangements between the united states and foreign governments may be amended from time to time, or because appropriate slots or facilities may not be made available. united currently operates on a number of international routes under government arrangements that limit the number of carriers, capacity, or the number of carriers allowed access to particular airports. if an open skies policy were to be adopted for any of these routes, such an event could have a material adverse impact on the company's financial position and results of operations and could result in the impairment of material amounts of related intangible assets. recently, the u.s. and the eu entered into an "open skies" agreement that will become effective at the end of march 2008. see note 8, "intangibles," in the combined notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information on the open skies agreement. further, the company's operations in foreign countries are subject to various laws and regulations in those countries. the company cannot provide any assurance that current laws and regulations, or laws or regulations enacted in the future, will not adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations. the company's results of operations fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors associated with the airline industry. due to greater demand for air travel during the summer months, revenues in the airline industry in the second and third quarters of the year are generally stronger than revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year. the company's results of operations generally reflect this seasonality, but have also been impacted by numerous other factors that are not necessarily seasonal including, among others, the imposition of excise and similar taxes, extreme or severe weather, air traffic control congestion, changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation and other factors and general economic conditions. as a result, the company's quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year, and historical operating results in a quarterly or annual period are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. the company's financial condition and results of operations may be further affected by the future resolution of bankruptcy-related contingencies. despite the company's exit from bankruptcy on february 1, 2006, several significant matters remain to be resolved in connection with its reorganization under chapter 11 of the united states bankruptcy code. unfavorable resolution of these matters could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. for additional detail regarding these matters, see note 1, "voluntary reorganization under chapter 11 significant matters remaining to be resolved in chapter 11 cases," in the combined notes to consolidated financial statements . 17 the company's initiatives to improve the delivery of its products and services to its customers, reduce costs, increase its revenues and increase shareholder value may not be adequate or successful. the company continues to identify and implement continuous improvement programs to improve the delivery of its products and services to its customers, reduce its costs and increase its revenues. some of these efforts are focused on cost savings in such areas as telecommunications, airport services, catering, maintenance materials, aircraft ground handling and regional affiliates expenses, among others. the company is also reviewing strategic alternatives to maximize the value of its mro and mileage plus businesses, which may include a possible sale of all, or part of, these operations. a number of the company's ongoing initiatives involve significant changes to the company's business that it may be unable to implement successfully. in addition, revenue and other initiatives may not be successful due to the competitive landscape of the industry and the reaction of our competitors to certain of our initiatives. the adequacy and ultimate success of the company's programs and initiatives to improve the delivery of its products and services to its customers, reduce its costs and increase both its revenues and shareholder value cannot be assured. there can be no assurance that any transactions with respect to the company's mro and mileage plus business will occur, nor are there any assurances with respect to the form or timing of any such transactions or their actual effect on shareholder value. union disputes, employee strikes and other labor-related disruptions may adversely affect the company's operations and impair its financial performance. approximately 81% of the employees of ual are represented for collective bargaining purposes by u.s. labor unions. these employees are organized into six labor groups represented by six different unions. relations between air carriers and labor unions in the united states are governed by the rla. under the rla, a carrier must maintain the existing terms and conditions of employment following the amendable date through a multi-stage and usually lengthy series of bargaining processes overseen by the nmb. this process continues until either the parties have reached agreement on a new cba or the parties are released to "self-help" by the nmb. although in most circumstances the rla prohibits strikes, shortly after release by the nmb carriers and unions are free to engage in self-help measures such as strikes and lock-outs. all six of the company's u.s. labor agreements become amendable in january 2010. there is also a risk that dissatisfied employees, either with or without union involvement, could engage in illegal slow-downs, work stoppages, partial work stoppages, sick-outs or other actions short of a full strike that could individually or collectively harm the operation of the airline and materially impair its financial performance. increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage may adversely impact the company's operations and financial results. the terrorist attacks of september 11, 2001 led to a significant increase in insurance premiums and a decrease in the insurance coverage available to commercial airlines. accordingly, the company's insurance costs increased significantly and its ability to continue to obtain certain types of insurance remains uncertain. the company has obtained third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance through a special program administered by the faa, resulting in lower premiums than if it had obtained this insurance in the commercial insurance market. should the government discontinue this coverage, obtaining comparable coverage from commercial underwriters could result in substantially higher premiums and more restrictive terms, if it is available at all. if the company is unable to obtain adequate war risk insurance, its business could be materially and adversely affected. if any of united's aircraft were to be involved in an accident, the company could be exposed to significant liability. the insurance it carries to cover damages arising from any future accidents may be 18 inadequate. if the company's insurance is not adequate, it may be forced to bear substantial losses from an accident. the company relies heavily on automated systems to operate its business and any significant failure of these systems could harm its business. the company depends on automated systems to operate its business, including its computerized airline reservation systems, flight operations systems, telecommunication systems and commercial websites, including united.com. united's website and reservation systems must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver important flight and schedule information, as well as process critical financial transactions. substantial or repeated website, reservations systems or telecommunication systems failures could reduce the attractiveness of united's services versus its competitors and materially impair its ability to market its services and operate its flights. the company's business relies extensively on third-party providers. failure of these parties to perform as expected, or unexpected interruptions in the company's relationships with these providers or their provision of services to the company, could have an adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. the company has engaged a growing number of third-party service providers to perform a large number of functions that are integral to its business, such as operation of united express flights, operation of customer service call centers, provision of information technology infrastructure and services, provision of aircraft maintenance and repairs, provision of various utilities and performance of aircraft fueling operations, among other vital functions and services. the company does not directly control these third-party providers, although it does enter into agreements with many of them that define expected service performance. any of these third-party providers, however, may materially fail to meet their service performance commitments to the company. the failure of these providers to adequately perform their service obligations, or other unexpected interruptions of services, may reduce the company's revenues and increase its expenses or prevent united from operating its flights and providing other services to its customers. in addition, the company's business and financial performance could be materially harmed if its customers believe that its services are unreliable or unsatisfactory. the company's high level of fixed obligations could limit its ability to fund general corporate requirements and obtain additional financing, could limit its flexibility in responding to competitive developments and could increase its vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. the company has a significant amount of financial leverage from fixed obligations, including its amended credit facility, aircraft lease and debt financings, leases of airport property and other facilities, and other material cash obligations. in addition, as of december 31, 2007, the company had pledged a substantial majority of its available assets as collateral to secure its various fixed obligations. at december 31, 2007, the company has 113 unencumbered aircraft with a net book value of $2.0 billion. the company's high level of fixed obligations, a downgrade in the company's credit ratings or poor credit market conditions could impair its ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, and reduce its flexibility to conduct its business. certain of the company's existing indebtedness also requires it to meet covenants and financial tests to maintain ongoing access to those borrowings. see note 12, "debt obligations," in the combined notes to consolidated financial statements for further details. a failure to timely pay its debts or other material uncured breach of its contractual obligations could result in a variety of adverse consequences, including the acceleration of the company's indebtedness, the withholding of credit card sale proceeds by its credit card service providers and the exercise of other remedies by its creditors and equipment lessors that could result in material adverse effects on the company's operations and financial condition. in such a situation, it is unlikely that the 19 company would be able to fulfill its obligations to repay the accelerated indebtedness, make required lease payments, or otherwise cover its fixed costs. the company's net operating loss carry forward may be limited or possibly eliminated. the company has a net operating loss ("nol") carry forward tax benefit of approximately $2.5 billion for federal and state income tax purposes that primarily originated before ual's emergence from bankruptcy and will expire over a five to twenty year period. this tax benefit is mostly attributable to federal pre-tax nol carry forwards of $6.6 billion. if the company were to have a change of ownership within the meaning of section 382 of the internal revenue code, under certain conditions, its annual federal nol utilization could be limited to an amount equal to its market capitalization at the time of the ownership change multiplied by the federal long-term tax exempt rate. a change of ownership under section 382 of the internal revenue code is defined as a cumulative change of 50 percentage points or more in the ownership positions of certain stockholders owning 5% or more of the company's common stock over a three year rolling period. to reduce the risk of a potential adverse effect on the company's ability to utilize its nol carry forward for federal income tax purposes, ual's restated certificate of incorporation contains a "5% ownership limitation," applicable to all stockholders except the pension benefit guaranty corporation ("pbgc"). the 5% ownership limitation remains effective until february 1, 2011. the 5% ownership limitation prohibits (i) the acquisition by a single stockholder of shares representing 5% or more of the common stock of ual corporation and (ii) any acquisition or disposition of common stock by a stockholder that already owns 5% or more of ual corporation's common stock, unless prior written approval is granted by the ual board of directors. the percentage ownership of a single stockholder can be computed by dividing the number of shares of common stock held by the stockholder by the sum of the shares of common stock issued and outstanding plus the number of shares of common stock still held in reserve for payment to unsecured creditors under the plan of reorganization. for additional information regarding the 5% ownership limitation, please refer to ual's restated certificate available on its website. while the purpose of these transfer restrictions is to prevent a change of ownership from occurring within the meaning of section 382 of the internal revenue code (which ownership change might materially and adversely affect the company's ability to utilize its nol carry forward or other tax attributes), no assurance can be given that such an ownership change will not occur, in which case the availability of the company's substantial nol carry forward and other federal income tax attributes might be significantly limited or possibly eliminated. the company is subject to economic and political instability and other risks of doing business globally. the company is a global business with operations outside of the united states from which it derives approximately one-third of its operating revenues, as measured and reported to the dot. the company's operations in asia, latin america, the middle east and europe are a vital part of its worldwide airline network. volatile economic, political and market conditions in these international regions may have a negative impact on the company's operating results and its ability to achieve its business objectives. in addition, significant or volatile changes in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and other currencies, and the imposition of exchange controls or other currency restrictions may have a material adverse impact upon the company's liquidity, revenues, costs, or operating results. the loss of skilled employees upon whom the company depends to operate its business or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel could adversely affect its results of operations. the company believes that its future success will depend in large part on its ability to attract and retain highly qualified management, operational, technical and other personnel. the company may not be successful in retaining key personnel or in attracting and retaining other highly qualified personnel. 20 any inability to retain or attract significant numbers of qualified management and other personnel could adversely affect its business. the company could be adversely affected by an outbreak of a disease that affects travel behavior. an outbreak of a disease that affects travel demand or travel behavior, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome ("sars") or avian flu, or other illness, could have a material adverse impact on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. certain provisions of ual's governance documents could discourage or delay changes of control or changes to the board of directors of ual. certain provisions of the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws of ual (the "governance documents") may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of ual's board of directors and may discourage takeover attempts that some of its stockholders may consider beneficial. certain provisions of the governance documents may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if ual's board of directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of ual and its stockholders. these provisions of the governance documents are not intended to prevent a takeover, but are intended to protect and maximize the value of ual's stockholders' interests. while these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of ual to negotiate with the ual board of directors, they could enable the board of directors to prevent a transaction that some, or a majority, of its stockholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. the issuance of ual's contingent senior unsecured notes could adversely impact results of operations, liquidity and financial position and could cause dilution to the interests of its existing stockholders. in connection with the company's emergence from chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, ual is obligated under an indenture to issue to the pbgc 8% senior unsecured notes with an aggregate principal amount of up to $500 million in up to eight equal tranches of $62.5 million (with no more than one tranche issued as a result of each issuance trigger event) upon the occurrence of certain financial triggering events. an issuance trigger event occurs when the company's ebitdar (as defined in the indenture) exceeds $3.5 billion over the prior twelve months ending june 30 or december 31 of any applicable fiscal year, beginning with the fiscal year ending december 31, 2009 and ending with the fiscal year ending december 31, 2017. however, if the issuance of a tranche would cause a default under any other securities then existing, ual may satisfy its obligations with respect to such tranche by issuing ual common stock having a market value equal to $62.5 million. the issuance of these notes could adversely impact the company's results of operations because of increased interest expense related to the notes and adversely impact its financial position or liquidity due to increased cash required to meet interest and principal payments. if common stock is issued in lieu of debt, this could cause additional dilution to existing ual stockholders. see risks related to ual's common stock, below, for additional information regarding other risks related to our common stock. risks related to ual's common stock ual's common stock has a limited trading history and its market price may be volatile. because ual's common stock began trading on the nasdaq national market on february 2, 2006, there is limited trading history. the market price of its common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond ual's control. 21 the issuance of additional shares of ual's common stock, including upon conversion of its convertible preferred stock and its convertible notes, could cause dilution to the interests of its existing stockholders. in connection with the company's emergence from chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, ual issued 5,000,000 shares of 2% convertible preferred stock. effective february 1, 2008, this preferred stock may be converted into shares of ual's common stock. further, the preferred stock is mandatorily convertible 15 years from the issuance date. ual also issued approximately $150 million in convertible 5% notes shortly after the effective date, and subsequently issued approximately $726 million in convertible 4.5% notes on july 25, 2006. holders of these securities may convert them into shares of ual's common stock according to their terms. in february 2008, 1.0 million shares of 2% convertible preferred stock were converted into approximately 2.2 million shares of ual common stock resulting in dilution to common stockholders. if the holders of the remaining 4.0 million shares of convertible preferred stock or the holders of the convertible notes were to exercise their rights to convert their securities into common stock, it could cause substantial dilution to existing stockholders. in january 2008, as a result of ual's $2.15 per common share special distribution, ual modified the conversion prices of the 5% and 4.5% notes in accordance with the terms of their indentures. the lower conversion prices increase the potential dilution to existing ual stockholders. ual may undertake future actions that may result in additional modifications to the conversion prices of these instruments and increase their likelihood of conversion. for further information, see note 12, "debt obligations" and note 13, "ual preferred stock," in the combined notes to consolidated financial statements . ual's certificate of incorporation authorizes up to one billion shares of common stock. in certain circumstances, ual can issue shares of common stock without stockholder approval. in addition, the board of directors is authorized to issue up to 250 million shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of ual's stockholders. the ual board of directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any series of shares of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, conversion rights, dividend rights, preferences over ual's common stock with respect to dividends or if ual liquidates, dissolves or winds up its business and other terms. if ual issues preferred stock in the future that has a preference over its common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon its liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if ual issues preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of its common stock, the rights of holders of its common stock or the market price of its common stock could be adversely affected. ual is also authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, other securities convertible into either preferred stock or, in certain circumstances, common stock. in the future ual may decide to raise capital through offerings of its common stock, securities convertible into its common stock, or rights to acquire these securities or its common stock. the issuance of additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock could result in dilution of existing stockholders' equity interests in ual. issuances of substantial amounts of its common stock, or the perception that such issuances could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for ual's common stock and ual cannot predict the effect this dilution may have on the price of its common stock. ual's certificate of incorporation limits voting rights of certain foreign persons. ual's restated certificate of incorporation limits the voting rights of persons holding any of ual's equity securities who are not "citizens of the united states," as defined in section 40102(a)(15) of title 49 united states code, to 24.9% of the aggregate votes of all equity securities outstanding. this restriction is applied pro rata among all holders of equity securities who fail to qualify as "citizens of the united states," based on the number of votes the underlying securities are entitled to. risk factors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 63 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate risks. united's exposure to market risk associated with changes in interest rates relates primarily to its debt obligations and short-term investments. the company does not use derivative financial instruments in its investment portfolio. united's policy is to manage interest rate risk through a combination of fixed and variable rate debt and by entering into swap agreements, depending upon market conditions. a portion of united's aircraft lease obligations ($497 million in equivalent u.s. dollars at december 31, 2007) is denominated in foreign currencies that expose the company to risks associated with changes in foreign exchange rates. to hedge against some of this risk, united has placed foreign currency deposits (primarily for euros) to meet foreign currency lease obligations denominated in those respective currencies. since unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses on the foreign currency deposits are offset by the losses or gains on the foreign currency obligations, united has hedged its overall exposure to foreign currency exchange rate volatility with respect to its foreign lease deposits and obligations. the fair value of these deposits is determined based on the present value of future cash flows using an appropriate swap rate. the fair value of long-term debt is predominantly based on the present value of future cash flows using a u.s. treasury rate that matches the remaining life of the instrument, adjusted by a credit spread and, to a lesser extent, on the quoted market prices for the same or similar issues. the table below presents information as of december 31, 2007 about certain of the company's financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest and exchange rates. amounts shown below are the same for both ual and united, except as noted. 2007 expected maturity dates (in millions) fair value 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 thereafter total ual assets(a) cash equivalents fixed rate $ 1,259 $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,259 $ 1,259 avg. interest rate 5.12 % 5.12 % short term investments fixed rate $ 2,295 $ $ $ $ $ $ 2,295 $ 2,295 avg. interest rate 5.04 % 5.04 % lease deposits fixed rate eur deposits $ 147 $ 24 $ 241 $ 16 $ $ $ 428 $ 511 accrued interest 23 10 29 7 69 avg. interest rate 4.93 % 4.34 % 6.66 % 4.41 % 6.54 % fixed rate usd deposits $ $ $ 11 $ $ $ $ 11 $ 20 accrued interest 8 8 avg. interest rate 6.49 % 6.49 % ual long-term debt(a) u. s. dollar denominated variable rate debt $ 189 $ 162 $ 229 $ 152 $ 156 $ 1,622 $ 2,510 $ 2,405 avg. interest rate 6.09 % 6.12 % 6.15 % 6.22 % 6.26 % 6.31 % 6.18 % fixed rate debt(a) $ 489 $ 576 $ 689 $ 672 $ 228 $ 2,180 $ 4,834 $ 4,391 avg. interest rate 6.54 % 6.56 % 6.44 % 6.34 % 6.17 % 6.07 % 6.40 % (a) amounts also represent united except that united's carrying value and fair value of variable rate debt is approximately $3 million lower than the reported ual amounts and united's cash equivalents and short-term investments are approximately $56 million lower than the reported ual amounts. 63 in addition to the cash equivalents and short-term investments included in the table above, ual and united have $325 million and $291 million of short-term restricted cash, respectively, and each has $431 million of long-term restricted cash. as discussed in note 2(e), "summary of significant accounting policies cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and restricted cash" in the combined notes to consolidated financial statements , this cash is being held in restricted accounts for workers' compensation obligations, security deposits for airport leases and reserves with institutions that process united's credit card ticket sales. due to the short term nature of these cash balances, the carrying values approximate the fair values. the company's interest income is exposed to changes in interest rates on these cash balances. during 2007, the company also repurchased certain of its own debt instruments, which remain outstanding at december 31, 2007, with a fair value and carrying value of $91 million. the company recognizes changes in fair value of these securities through other comprehensive income; however, on a net basis, the company is not exposed to market risk due to offsetting changes in the fair value of the company's debt obligations. price risk (aircraft fuel). united enters into fuel option contracts and futures contracts to reduce its price risk exposure to jet fuel. these contracts are designed to provide protection against sharp increases in the price of aircraft fuel. the company may update its hedging strategy in response to changes in market conditions. the fair value of the company's fuel related derivatives was $20 million at december 31, 2007. these instruments have a maturity of less than one year. foreign currency. united generates revenues and incurs expenses in numerous foreign currencies. such expenses include fuel, aircraft leases, commissions, catering, personnel expense, advertising and distribution costs, customer service expenses and aircraft maintenance. changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact the company's results of operations through changes in the dollar value of foreign currency-denominated operating revenues and expenses. despite the adverse effects a strengthening foreign currency may have on demand for u.s.-originating traffic, a strengthening of foreign currencies tends to increase reported revenue and operating income because the company's foreign currency-denominated operating revenue generally exceeds its foreign currency-denominated operating expense for each currency. likewise, despite the favorable effects a weakening foreign currency may have on demand for u.s.-originating traffic, a weakening of foreign currencies tends to decrease reported revenue and operating income. the company's most significant net foreign currency exposures in 2007, based on exchange rates in effect at december 31, 2007, are presented in the table below: operating revenue net of operating expense (in millions) currency foreign currency value usd value canadian dollar 323 $ 324 chinese renminbi 2,178 298 australian dollar 158 138 european euro 94 137 japanese yen 14,040 126 in 2007, the company began using foreign currency forward contracts to hedge a portion of its exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. as of december 31, 2007, the company hedged a portion of its expected foreign currency cash flows in the australian dollar, canadian dollar, british pound, european euro and japanese yen. as of december 31, 2007, the notional amount of these foreign currencies hedged with the forward contracts in u.s. dollars terms was approximately $346 million. these contracts had a fair value of $1 million at december 31, 2007 and expire at various dates through december 2008. the company did not have any outstanding foreign currency derivatives at december 31, 2006. 64 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 58 quantitative and qualitative disclosures above market risk for further information on the company foreign currency risks associated with its foreign operations. critical accounting policies critical accounting policies are defined as those that are affected by significant judgments and uncertainties which potentially could result in materially different accounting under different assumptions and conditions. the company has prepared the accompanying financial statements in conformity with gaap, which requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts in the financial statements and accompanying notes. actual results could differ from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions. the company has identified the following critical accounting policies that impact the preparation of these financial statements. passenger revenue recognition. the value of unused passenger tickets and miscellaneous charge orders ( mco ) is included in current liabilities as advance ticket sales. united records passenger ticket sales as operating revenues when the transportation is provided or when the ticket expires. non-refundable 51 tickets generally expire on the date of the intended flight, unless the date is extended by notification from the customer on or before the intended flight date. fees charged in association with changes or extensions to non-refundable tickets are recorded as passenger revenue at the time the fee is incurred. change fees related to non-refundable tickets are considered a separate transaction from the air transportation because they represent a charge for the company additional service to modify a previous reservation. therefore, the pricing of the change fee and the initial customer reservation are separately determined and represent distinct earnings processes. refundable tickets expire after one year. mco are stored value documents that are either exchanged for a passenger ticket or refunded after issuance. united records an estimate of mco that will not be exchanged or refunded as revenue ratably over the validity period based on historical results. due to complex industry pricing structures, refund and exchange policies, and interline agreements with other airlines, certain amounts are recognized as revenue using estimates both as to the timing of recognition and the amount of revenue to be recognized. these estimates are based on the evaluation of actual historical results. accounting for long-lived assets. the company has $11.5 billion in net book value of operating property and equipment at december 31, 2006. in addition to the original cost of these assets, as adjusted by fresh-start reporting at february 1, 2006, their recorded value is impacted by a number of accounting policy elections, including the estimation of useful lives and residual values and, when necessary, the recognition of asset impairment charges. except for the adoption of fresh-start reporting at february 1, 2006, whereby the company remeasured long-lived assets at fair value, it is the company policy to record assets acquired, including aircraft, at acquisition cost. depreciable life is determined through economic analysis, such as reviewing existing fleet plans, obtaining appraisals and comparing estimated lives to other airlines that operate similar fleets. older generation aircraft are assigned lives that are generally consistent with the experience of united and the practice of other airlines. as aircraft technology has improved, useful life has increased and the company has generally estimated the lives of those aircraft to be 30 years. residual values are estimated based on historical experience with regards to the sale of both aircraft and spare parts, and are established in conjunction with the estimated useful lives of the related fleets. residual values are based on current dollars when the aircraft are acquired and typically reflect asset values that have not reached the end of their physical life. both depreciable lives and residual values are revised periodically to recognize changes in the company fleet plan and other relevant information. a one year increase in the average depreciable life of our aircraft would reduce annual depreciation expense by approximately $19 million. in accordance with statement of financial accounting standards no. 144, accounting for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets, the company evaluates the carrying value of long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment may exist. the company policy is to recognize an impairment charge when an asset carrying value exceeds its net undiscounted future cash flows and its fair market value. the amount of the charge is the difference between the asset book value and fair market value (sometimes estimated using appraisals). more often, the company estimates the undiscounted future cash flows for its various aircraft with financial models used by the company to make fleet and scheduling decisions. these models utilize projections on passenger yield, fuel costs, labor costs and other relevant factors, many of which require the exercise of significant judgment on the part of management. changes in these projections may expose the company to future impairment charges by raising the threshold which future cash flows need to meet. the company recognized impairment charges on assets held-for-sale of $5 million in 2006 and $18 million for the early retirement of certain aircraft in 2005. see note 2(l), summary of significant accounting policies measurement of impairments and note 19, special items, in the notes to consolidated financial statements . see note 2(f), summary of significant accounting policies operating property and equipment, in the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding united policies on accounting for long-lived assets. 52 fresh-start reporting. in connection with its emergence from chapter 11 protection as of february 1, 2006, the company adopted fresh-start reporting in accordance with sop 90-7. accordingly, ual assets, liabilities and equity were valued at their respective fair values as of the effective date. the excess reorganization value over the fair value of net tangible and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities has been reflected as goodwill in the accompanying statements of consolidated financial position . fair values of assets and liabilities represent the company best estimates based on independent appraisals and valuations and, where the foregoing are not available, industry data and trends and by reference to relevant market rates and transactions. accordingly, the company cannot provide assurance that the estimates, assumptions, and values reflected in the asset and liability valuations will be realized, and actual results could vary materially from those estimates. in accordance with sfas 141, the preliminary measurement and allocation of fair value to assets and liabilities was subject to additional adjustment within one year after emergence from bankruptcy to provide the company time to complete its valuation of its assets and liabilities. see note 1, voluntary reorganization under chapter 11 fresh-start reporting, and note 2(k), summary of significant accounting policies intangibles in the notes to consolidated financial statements for further details related to the fresh-start fair value adjustments. to facilitate the calculation of the enterprise value of the successor company, a set of financial projections were developed. based on these financial projections, the equity value was estimated by the company using various valuation methods, including (i) a comparison of the company and its projected performance to the market values of comparable companies, (ii) a review and analysis of several recent transactions of companies in similar industries to the company, and (iii) a calculation of the present value of projected future cash flows using the company financial projections. the estimated enterprise value and corresponding equity value are highly dependent upon achieving the future financial results set forth in the projections as well as the realization of certain other assumptions that cannot be guaranteed. the estimated equity value of the company was calculated to be approximately $1.9 billion. the foregoing estimates and assumptions are inherently subject to significant uncertainties and contingencies beyond the reasonable control of the company. moreover, the market value of the company common stock may differ materially from the fresh-start equity valuation. frequent flyer accounting. in accordance with fresh-start reporting, the company revalued its frequent flyer obligation to estimated fair value at the effective date, which resulted in a $2.4 billion increase to the frequent flyer obligation. the successor company also has elected to change its accounting policy for its mileage plus frequent flyer program to a deferred revenue model. the company believes that accounting for frequent flyer miles using a deferred revenue model is preferable, as it establishes a consistent valuation methodology for both miles earned by frequent flyers and miles sold to non-airline business partners. before the effective date, the predecessor company had used the historical industry practice of accounting for frequent flyer miles earned on united flights on an incremental cost basis as an accrued liability and as advertising expense, while miles sold to non-airline business partners were accounted for on a deferred revenue basis. as of the effective date, the deferred revenue value of all frequent flyer miles are measured using equivalent ticket value as described below, and all associated adjustments are made to passenger revenues. the deferred revenue measurement method used to record fair value of the frequent flyer obligation on and after the effective date was to allocate an equivalent weighted-average ticket value to each outstanding mile, based upon projected redemption patterns for available award choices when such miles are consumed. such value was estimated assuming redemptions on both united and other participating carriers in the mileage plus program, and by estimating the relative proportions of awards to be redeemed by class of service within broad geographic regions of the company operations, including north america, atlantic, pacific and latin america. 53 under the new method of accounting adopted for this program at the effective date, the company reduced operating revenue by approximately $158 million more in the eleven months ended december 31, 2006 to account for the effects of the program as compared to the reduction in revenues that would have been recognized using the predecessor company accounting method. the company new accounting policy does not continue the use of the former incremental cost method, which impacted revenues and advertising expense under that prior policy. assuming the use of the predecessor company accounting for this program, for the eleven months ended december 31, 2006, the company estimates that it would have recorded approximately $27 million of additional advertising expense. the estimation of the fair value of each award mile requires the use of several significant assumptions, for which significant management judgment is required. for example, management must estimate how many miles are projected to be redeemed on united, versus on other airline partners. since the equivalent ticket value of miles redeemed on united and on other carriers can vary greatly, this assumption can materially affect the calculation of the weighted-average ticket value from period to period. management must also estimate the expected redemption patterns of mileage plus customers, who have a number of different award choices when redeeming their miles, each of which can have materially different estimated fair values. such choices include different classes of service (first, business and several coach award levels), as well as different flight itineraries, such as domestic and international routings, and different itineraries within domestic and international regions of united and other participating carriers flight networks. customer redemption patterns may also be influenced by program changes, which occur from time to time and introduce new award choices, or make material changes to the terms of existing award choices. management must often estimate the probable impact of such program changes on future customer behavior using limited data, which requires the use of significant judgment. management uses historical customer redemption patterns as the best single indicator of future redemption behavior in making its estimates, but changes in customer mileage redemption behavior to patterns which are not consistent with historical behavior can result in material changes to deferred revenue balances, and to recognized revenue. management estimate of the expected breakage of miles as of the fresh-start date, and for recognition of breakage post-emergence, also requires significant management judgment. for customer accounts which are inactive for a period of 36 consecutive months, it has been united policy to cancel all miles contained in those accounts at the end of the 36 month period of inactivity. in early 2007, the company announced that it is reducing the expiration period from 36 months to 18 months effective december 31, 2007. under its deferred revenue accounting policy effective in 2006, the company recognized revenue from breakage of miles by amortizing such estimated breakage over the 36 month expiration period. however, current and future changes to program rules, such as the recent change in the expiration period, and program redemption opportunities can significantly alter customer behavior from historical patterns with respect to inactive accounts. such changes may result in material changes to the deferred revenue balance, as well as recognized revenues from the program. a hypothetical 1% change in the company estimated breakage rate, estimated at 14% annually as of december 31, 2006, has approximately an $18 million effect on the liability. at december 31, 2006, the company outstanding number of miles was approximately 508.8 billion. the company estimates that approximately 438.3 billion of these miles will ultimately be redeemed based on assumptions as of december 31, 2006 and, accordingly, has recorded deferred revenue of $3.7 billion. a hypothetical 1% change in the company outstanding number of miles or the weighted-average ticket value has approximately a $42 million effect on the liability. these assumptions do not include the impact of reducing the expiration period from 36 months to 18 months. goodwill and intangible assets. in accordance with statement of financial accounting standards no. 142, goodwill and other intangible assets ( sfas 142 ), the company applies a fair value-based 54 impairment test to the book value of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on an annual basis and, if certain events or circumstances indicate that an impairment loss may have been incurred, on an interim basis. an impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on the company financial position and results of operations in the period of recognition. upon the implementation of fresh-start reporting ( see note 1, voluntary reorganization under chapter 11 fresh-start reporting, in the notes to consolidated financial statements ) the company assets, liabilities and equity were valued at their respective fair values. the excess of reorganization value over the fair value of net tangible and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities has been reflected as goodwill in the accompanying statements of consolidated financial position on the effective date. as discussed in note 9, segment information, in the notes to consolidated financial statements , the entire goodwill amount of $2.7 billion at december 31, 2006 has been allocated to the mainline reportable segment. in addition, the adoption of fresh-start reporting resulted in the recognition of $2.2 billion of indefinite-lived intangible assets. sfas 142 requires that a two-step impairment test be performed on goodwill. in the first step, the company compares the fair value of the reportable segment to its carrying value. if the fair value of the reportable segment exceeds the carrying value of the net assets of the reportable segment, goodwill is not impaired and the company is not required to perform further testing. if the carrying value of the net assets of the reportable segment exceeds the fair value of the reportable segment, then the company must perform the second step to determine the implied fair value of the goodwill and compare it to the carrying value of the goodwill. if the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, then the company must record an impairment charge equal to such difference. the company assessed the fair value of its reportable segments considering both the market and income approaches. under the market approach, the fair value of the reportable segment is based on quoted market prices and recent transaction values of peer companies. under the income approach, the fair value of the reportable segment is based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. the income approach is dependent on a number of factors including estimates of future capacity, passenger yield, traffic, operating costs, appropriate discount rates and other relevant factors. the company performed its annual impairment test for its goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets as of october 1, 2006. to estimate the fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets the company used the market and income approaches, discussed above, and the cost method, which uses the concept of replacement cost as an indicator of fair value. the company did not identify any impairments in these assets. other postretirement benefit accounting. the company accounts for other postretirement benefits using statement of financial accounting standards no. 106, employers accounting for postretirement benefits other than pensions ( sfas 106 ) and statement of financial accounting standards no. 158, employers accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans an amendment of fasb statements no. 87, 88, 106 and 132(r) ( sfas 158 ). for the year ended december 31, 2006, the company adopted sfas 158, which requires the company to recognize the difference between plan assets and obligations, or the plan funded status, in its statements of consolidated financial position . under these accounting standards, other postretirement benefit expense is recognized on an accrual basis over employees approximate service periods and is generally calculated independently of funding decisions or requirements. the company has not been required to pre-fund its current and future plan obligations resulting in a significant net obligation, as discussed below. the fair value of plan assets at december 31, 2006 was $54 million for the other postretirement benefit plans. the benefit obligation was $2.1 billion for the other postretirement benefit plans at december 31, 2006. the difference between the plan assets and obligations has been recorded in the statements of consolidated financial position at december 31, 2006. detailed information regarding the 55 company other postretirement plans, including key assumptions, is included in note 8, retirement and postretirement plans, in the notes to consolidated financial statements . the following provides a summary of the methodology to determine the assumptions used in note 8, retirement and postretirement plans, in the notes to consolidated financial statements . the calculation of other postretirement benefit expense and obligations requires the use of a number of assumptions, including the assumed discount rate for measuring future payment obligations and the expected return on plan assets. the discount rates were based on the construction of theoretical bond portfolios, adjusted according to the timing of expected cash flows for the company future postretirement obligations. a yield curve was developed based on a subset of these bonds (those with yields between the 40th and 90th percentiles). the projected cash flows were matched to this yield curve and a present value developed, which was then calibrated to develop a single equivalent discount rate. the expected return on plan assets is based on an evaluation of the historical behavior of the broad financial markets and the company investment portfolio, taking into consideration input from the plan investment consultant and actuary regarding expected long-term market conditions and investment management performance. the company believes that the long-term asset allocation on average will approximate the targeted allocation and it regularly reviews the actual asset allocation to periodically rebalance the investments to the targeted allocation when appropriate. other postretirement expense is reduced by the expected return on plan assets, which is measured by assuming that the market-related value of plan assets increases at the expected rate of return. the market-related value is a calculated value that phases in differences between the expected rate of return and the actual return over a period of five years. actuarial gains or losses are triggered by changes in assumptions or experience that differ from the original assumptions. under the applicable accounting standards, those gains and losses are not required to be recognized currently as other postretirement expense, but instead may be deferred as part of accumulated other comprehensive income and amortized into expense over the average remaining service life of the covered active employees. at december 31, 2006, the company had unrecognized actuarial gains of $120 million for the other postretirement benefit plans recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. valuation allowance for deferred tax assets. the company initially recorded a tax valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets in the third quarter of 2002. in recording the valuation allowance, management considered whether it was more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets would be realized. this analysis included consideration of scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, carry back potential and tax planning strategies, in accordance with sfas 109. at december 31, 2006, our valuation allowance totaled $2.2 billion. see also note 6, income taxes, in the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information. income taxes. during the evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2006, the company identified a deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting associated with tax accounting which constituted a material weakness. while the company had appropriately designed control procedures, high staff turnover caused the company to poorly execute those control procedures for evaluating and recording its current and deferred income tax provision and related deferred taxes balances. this control deficiency did not result in a material misstatement, but did result in adjustments to the deferred tax assets and liabilities, net operating losses, valuation allowance and footnote disclosures and could have resulted in a misstatement of current and deferred income taxes and related disclosures that would result in a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements. we have and are continuing to take steps to remediate this material weakness, including the hiring of several tax professionals, as well as implementing a more rigorous review process of tax accounting and disclosure matters. additional review, evaluation and oversight have been undertaken to ensure our 56 consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and, as a result, we have concluded that the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k fairly present, in all material respects, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented. see also note 6, income taxes, in the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information. new accounting pronouncements. for detailed information, see note 2(p), summary of significant accounting policies new accounting pronouncements, in the notes to consolidated financial statements . forward-looking information certain statements throughout item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and elsewhere in this report are forward-looking and thus reflect the company current expectations and beliefs with respect to certain current and future events and financial performance. such forward-looking statements are and will be subject to many risks and uncertainties relating to united operations and business environment that may cause actual results to differ materially from any future results expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. words such as expects, will, plans, anticipates, indicates, believes, forecast, guidance, outlook and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. additionally, forward-looking statements include statements which do not relate solely to historical facts, such as statements which identify uncertainties or trends, discuss the possible future effects of current known trends or uncertainties, or which indicate that the future effects of known trends or uncertainties cannot be predicted, guaranteed or assured. all forward-looking statements in this report are based upon information available to the company on the date of this report. the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances or otherwise. the company actual results could differ materially from these forward-looking statements due to numerous factors including, without limitation, the following: its ability to comply with the terms of financing arrangements; the costs and availability of financing; its ability to execute its business plan; its ability to realize benefits from its resource optimization efforts and cost reduction initiatives; its ability to utilize its net operating losses; its ability to attract, motivate and/or retain key employees; its ability to attract and retain customers; demand for transportation in the markets in which it operates; general economic conditions (including interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, crude oil prices, costs of aviation fuel and refining capacity in relevant markets); its ability to cost-effectively hedge against increases in the price of aviation fuel; the effects of any hostilities, act of war or terrorist attack; the ability of other air carriers with whom the company has alliances or partnerships to provide the services contemplated by the respective arrangements with such carriers; the costs and availability of aircraft insurance; the costs associated with security measures and practices; labor costs; competitive pressures on pricing (particularly from lower-cost competitors) and on demand; capacity decisions of its competitors; u.s. or foreign governmental legislation, regulation and other actions; its ability to maintain satisfactory labor relations; any disruptions to operations due to any potential actions by its labor groups; weather conditions; and other risks and uncertainties set forth under item 1a. risk factors of this form 10-k, as well as other risks and uncertainties set forth from time to time in the reports the company files with the sec. consequently, the forward-looking statements should not be regarded as representations or warranties by the company that such matters will be realized. 57 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate risks united exposure to market risk associated with changes in interest rates relates primarily to its debt obligations and short-term investments. the company does not use derivative financial instruments in its investment portfolio. united policy is to manage interest rate risk through a combination of fixed and floating rate debt and by entering into swap agreements, depending upon market conditions. a portion of united capital lease obligations ($537 million in equivalent u.s. dollars at december 31, 2006) is denominated in foreign currencies that expose us to risks associated with changes in foreign exchange rates. to hedge against some of this risk, united has placed foreign currency deposits (primarily for euros) to meet foreign currency lease obligations denominated in those respective currencies. since unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses on the foreign currency deposits are offset by the losses or gains on the foreign currency obligations, united reduces its overall exposure to foreign currency exchange rate volatility. the fair value of these deposits is determined based on the present value of future cash flows using an appropriate swap rate. the fair value of long-term debt is based on the quoted market prices for the same or similar issues or the present value of future cash flows using a u.s. treasury rate that matches the remaining life of the instrument, adjusted by a credit spread. the table below presents information as of december 31, 2006 about certain of the company financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest and exchange rates. 2006 expected maturity dates fair (dollars in millions) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 thereafter total value assets cash equivalents fixed rate $ 3,832 $ $ $ $ $ $ 3,832 $ 3,832 avg. interest rate 5.32 % 5.32 % short term investments fixed rate $ 312 $ $ $ $ $ $ 312 $ 312 avg. interest rate 5.32 % 5.32 % lease deposits fixed rate eur deposits $ 74 $ 132 $ 22 $ 215 $ 14 $ $ 457 $ 454 accrued interest 13 22 2 23 4 64 avg. interest rate 5.42 % 4.93 % 4.34 % 6.66 % 4.41 % 6.56 % fixed rate usd deposits $ $ $ $ 11 $ $ $ 11 $ 19 accrued interest 7 7 avg. interest rate 6.49 % 6.49 % long-term debt u. s. dollar denominated variable rate debt $ 183 $ 238 $ 212 $ 281 $ 205 $ 3,610 $ 4,729 $ 4,695 avg. interest rate 6.69 % 6.19 % 6.61 % 6.05 % 6.74 % 8.45 % 7.97 % fixed rate debt $ 532 $ 446 $ 547 $ 660 $ 631 $ 1,842 $ 4,658 4,815 avg. interest rate 6.52 % 6.55 % 6.53 % 6.53 % 6.47 % 5.74 % 6.21 % in addition to the cash equivalents and short-term investments included in the table above, the company has $341 million of short-term restricted cash and $506 million of long-term restricted cash at december 31, 2006. as discussed in note 2(d), summary of significant accounting policies cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and restricted cash in the notes to consolidated financial statements , this cash is being held in restricted accounts for workers compensation obligations, security deposits for airport leases and reserves with institutions that process united credit card ticket sales. due to the short term nature of these cash balances, the carrying values approximate the fair values. the company interest income is exposed to changes in interest rates on these cash balances. 58 in the first quarter of 2006, united entered into an interest rate swap whereby it fixed the rate of interest on $2.45 billion notional value of floating-rate debt at 5.14% plus a fixed credit margin. the swap had a fair value of negative $12 million at december 31, 2006. in january 2007, united terminated the swap. the termination value of the swap was negative $4 million due to an $8 million increase in fair value from december 31, 2006 to the termination date. see note 14, financial instruments and risk management interest rate swap, in the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information. in february 2007, the company completed a prepayment of a portion of its credit facility debt. this prepayment reduces the company variable rate debt maturities in the table above by $972 million ($10 million in each of 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 and $932 million thereafter). see note 11, debt obligations, in the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information. price risk (aircraft fuel) united enters into fuel option contracts and futures contracts to reduce its price risk exposure to jet fuel. these contracts are designed to provide protection against sharp increases in the price of aircraft fuel. the company may update its hedging strategy in response to changes in market conditions. the fair value of the company fuel related derivatives was a negative $2 million at december 31, 2006. these instruments have a maturity of less than one year. foreign currency united generates revenues and incurs expenses in numerous foreign currencies. such expenses include fuel, aircraft leases, commissions, catering, personnel expense, advertising and distribution costs, customer service expenses and aircraft maintenance. changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact the company results of operations through changes in the dollar value of foreign currency-denominated operating revenues and expenses. despite the adverse effects a strengthening foreign currency may have on demand for u.s.-originating traffic, a strengthening of foreign currencies tends to increase reported revenue and operating income because the company foreign currency-denominated operating revenue generally exceeds its foreign currency-denominated operating expense for each currency. likewise, despite the favorable effects a weakening foreign currency may have on demand for u.s.-originating traffic, a weakening of foreign currencies tends to decrease reported revenue and operating income. the company biggest net foreign currency exposures in 2006 were typically for the canadian dollar, chinese renminbi, australian dollar, british pound, korean won, european euro, hong kong dollar and japanese yen. the table below sets forth the company net exposure to various currencies for 2006: (in millions) operating revenue net of operating expense currency foreign currency value usd value canadian dollar 278 $ 245 chinese renminbi 1,735 218 australian dollar 163 122 british pound 54 98 korean won 93,521 98 european euro 77 97 hong kong dollar 737 95 japanese yen 8,459 72 at december 31, 2006, the company did not have any foreign currency derivative instruments. 59risk factors 14 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 69 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate risks. united exposure to market risk associated with changes in interest rates relates primarily to its debt obligations. the company does not use derivative financial instruments in its investment portfolio. united policy is to manage interest rate risk through a combination of fixed and variable rate debt and by entering into swap agreements, depending upon market conditions. a portion of united aircraft lease obligations and related accrued interest ($295 million in equivalent u.s. dollars at december 31, 2009) is denominated in foreign currencies that expose the company to risks associated with changes in foreign exchange rates. to hedge against this risk, united has placed foreign currency deposits ($295 million in equivalent u.s. dollars at december 31, 2009), primarily for euros, to meet foreign currency lease obligations denominated in that respective currency. since unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses on the foreign currency deposits are offset by the losses or gains on the foreign currency obligations, united has hedged its overall exposure to foreign currency exchange rate volatility with respect to its foreign lease deposits and obligations. the fair value of these deposits is determined based on the present value of future cash flows using an appropriate foreign currency swap rate. the fair value of long-term debt is predominantly based on the present value of future cash flows using a u.s. treasury rate that matches the remaining life of the instrument, adjusted by a credit spread and, to a lesser extent, on the quoted market prices for the same or similar instruments. the table below presents information as of december 31, 2009 about certain of the company financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest and exchange rates. amounts shown below are the same for both ual and united, except as noted. 69 table of contents (dollars in millions) expected maturity date 2009 2008 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 thereafter total fair value total fair value ual assets cash equivalents fixed rate (a) $ 3,042 $ $ $ $ $ $ 3,042 $ 3,042 $ 2,039 $ 2,039 avg. interest rate 0.07 % 0.07 % 1.02 % lease deposits fixed rate eur deposits $ 235 $ 15 $ $ $ $ $ 250 $ 309 $ 264 $ 330 accrued interest 37 8 45 42 avg. interest rate 6.86 % 4.41 % 6.45 % 6.45 % fixed rate usd deposits $ 11 $ 2 $ $ 1 $ 1 $ 6 $ 21 $ 31 $ 11 $ 21 accrued interest 10 10 9 avg. interest rate 6.49 % 6.49 % 6.49 % ual long term debt (a) u. s. dollar denominated variable rate debt $ 282 $ 205 $ 204 $ 222 $ 1,386 $ 286 $ 2,585 $ 2,236 $ 2,640 $ 1,524 avg. interest rate 2.04 % 2.42 % 2.42 % 2.33 % 2.72 % 2.19 % 2.51 % 3.24 % fixed rate debt $ 712 $ 710 $ 433 $ 93 $ 161 $ 2,576 $ 4,685 $ 4,062 $ 4,388 $ 2,668 avg. interest rate 7.04 % 7.09 % 9.65 % 8.97 % 7.37 % 5.93 % 6.73 % 6.09 % (a) amounts also represent united except that in 2009, united carrying value and fair value of its cash equivalents are approximately $6 million lower than the reported ual amounts, and in 2009, its carrying value and fair value of total long-term debt are approximately $346 million and $553 million lower than the reported ual amounts. in 2008, united carrying value and fair value of its cash equivalents and debt obligations are approximately $6 million and $2 million, respectively, lower than the reported ual amounts. the difference in 2009 debt obligations is attributable to the ual $345 million principal amount of 6% senior convertible notes issued in october 2009, which is not a united debt obligation. in addition to the cash equivalents included in the table above, both ual and united have $128 million of short-term restricted cash and $213 million and $212 million, respectively, of long-term restricted cash. as discussed in note 1(d), summary of significant accounting policies cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash, in the footnotes, restricted cash primarily includes cash collateral to secure workers compensation obligations, reserves for institutions that process credit card ticket sales and, in 2009, cash collateral received from fuel hedge counterparties. due to the short term nature of these cash balances, their carrying values approximate their fair values. the company interest income is exposed to changes in interest rates on these cash balances. during 2007, the company also repurchased certain of its own debt instruments, which remain outstanding and have a fair value and carrying value of $51 million at december 31, 2009. the company recognizes changes in fair value of these securities through other comprehensive income; however, on a net basis, the company is not exposed to market risk due to the existence of offsetting changes in the fair value of the company related debt obligations. the material changes in the amounts reported in the table above for 2009 as compared to 2008 include the following: (1) cash and short-term investments increased by approximately $1.0 billion primarily due to cash provided by operating and financing activities, as discussed in liquidity above; and (2) debt obligations increased by $242 million primarily due to new debt issuances in 2009, partially offset by scheduled debt repayments in 2009. the interest rate on the company cash and variable rate debt decreased in 2009, as compared to 2008, primarily due to a decrease in market interest rates. commodity price risk (jet fuel). our results of operations and liquidity have been, and may continue to be, materially impacted by changes in the price of aircraft fuel and other oil-related commodities and related derivative instruments. united may use swaps, purchased call options or other derivative instruments to reduce its price risk exposure to jet fuel. the company derivative positions are typically comprised of crude oil, heating oil and jet fuel derivatives. the derivative instruments are designed to provide protection against increases in the price of aircraft fuel. some derivative instruments may result in hedging losses if the underlying commodity prices drop below specified floors or swap prices; however, the negative impact of these losses may 70 table of contents be offset by the benefit of lower jet fuel acquisition cost since the company typically does not hedge all of its fuel consumption, and only uses swaps or sold puts on a portion of the fuel volumes that it does hedge. united may adjust its hedging program based on changes in market conditions. at december 31, 2009, the fair value of united fuel-related derivatives was a payable of $5 million and a receivable of $138 million, as compared to a payable of $727 million at december 31, 2008. the primary reasons for this change were the dramatic decrease in fuel prices in the latter part of 2008, subsequent fuel price increases in 2009 and turnover of the company hedge portfolio to instruments with a lower average strike price. at december 31, 2009, the company also had $15 million of additional fuel derivative payables related to pending settlements for purchased call options and expired contracts. as of december 31, 2009, the company had hedged approximately 36% of its 2010 consolidated fuel consumption primarily with a combination of swaps and purchased call options. the company hedge position at december 31, 2009 consists of a notional amount of 9.7 million barrels with purchased call options at a weighted-average crude oil equivalent strike price of $76 per barrel and 9.9 million barrels with swaps at an average price of $77 per barrel. all of these derivative instruments mature within 12 months of december 31, 2009. as of december 31, 2008, the company had hedged 34% of its 2009 consolidated fuel consumption, primarily with collar structures. the company had significant losses on its 2008 hedge position as certain of the collar structures required payments by united to its counterparties for decreases in the price of crude oil below approximately $100 per barrel. the above derivative positions are subject to potential counterparty cash collateral requirements in some circumstances. the company provided counterparties with cash collateral of $10 million as of december 31, 2009. foreign currency. united generates revenues and incurs expenses in numerous foreign currencies. such expenses include fuel, aircraft leases, commissions, catering, personnel expense, advertising and distribution costs, customer service expenses and aircraft maintenance. changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact the company results of operations through changes in the dollar value of foreign currency-denominated operating revenues and expenses. despite the adverse effects a strengthening foreign currency may have on demand for u.s.-originating traffic, a strengthening of foreign currencies tends to increase reported revenue and operating income because the company foreign currency-denominated operating revenue generally exceeds its foreign currency-denominated operating expense for each currency. likewise, despite the favorable effects a weakening foreign currency may have on demand for u.s.-originating traffic, a weakening of foreign currencies tends to decrease reported revenue and operating income. the company most significant net foreign currency exposures in 2009, based on exchange rates in effect at december 31, 2009, are presented in the table below: (in millions) operating revenue net of operating expense currency foreign currency value usd value canadian dollar 284 $ 269 chinese renminbi 1,686 247 european euro 60 86 south korean won 70,725 61 australian dollar 57 51 the company may use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge a portion of its exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. as of december 31, 2009, the company did not have any derivative positions to hedge foreign currency cash flows. as of december 31, 2008, the company hedged a portion of its expected foreign currency cash flows in the australian dollar, canadian dollar and european euro. as of december 31, 2008, the notional amount of these foreign currencies hedged with the forward contracts in u.s. dollars terms was approximately $62 million, based on contractual forward rates. these contracts had a fair value of $10 million at december 31, 2008. 71 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors. the following risk factors should be read carefully when evaluating the company business and the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other statements the company or its representatives make from time to time. any of the following risks could materially adversely affect the company business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. the merger may present certain material risks to the company business and operations. the merger, described in item 1, business, may present certain risks to the company business and operations including, among other things, risks that: we may be unable to successfully integrate the businesses and workforces of united and continental; conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions relating to the merger that may be imposed on us by regulatory authorities may adversely affect the company business and operations; 13 table of contents we may lose additional management personnel and other key employees and may be unable to attract and retain such personnel and employees; we may be unable to successfully manage the expanded business with respect to monitoring new operations and associated increased costs and complexity; we may be unable to avoid potential liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the merger and integration; we may be unable to successfully manage the complex integration of systems, technology, aircraft fleets, networks and other assets of united and continental in a manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, vendors, suppliers, employees and other constituencies; our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for u.s. federal income tax purposes may be limited; branding or rebranding initiatives may involve substantial costs and may not be favorably received by customers; we may experience disruption of, or inconsistencies in, each of united and continental standards, controls, procedures, policies and services; and we may be unable to successfully negotiate and maintain current or future strategic partnerships of united and continental on terms acceptable to the company. accordingly, there can be no assurance that the merger will result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, innovation and operational efficiencies that we currently expect, that these benefits will be achieved within the anticipated timeframe or that we will be able to fully and accurately measure any such synergies. certain of the company financing agreements have covenants that impose operating and financial restrictions on the company and its subsidiaries. the company may be unable to continue to comply with the covenants in these agreements. a failure to comply with these covenants could result in the accelerated maturity of debt obligations, which could materially and adversely affect the company liquidity. united amended and restated revolving credit, term loan and guaranty agreement, dated as of february 2, 2007 (the amended credit facility ), the indenture governing continental 6.75% senior secured notes due 2015 (the 6.75% notes ) and the indentures governing united 9.875% senior secured notes due 2013 and 12.0% senior second lien notes due 2013 (the united senior notes, and together with the 6.75% notes, the senior notes ) impose certain operating and financial covenants, as applicable, on the company, on united and its material subsidiaries, or on continental and its subsidiaries. among other covenants, the amended credit facility requires ual, united and certain of united material subsidiaries who are guarantors under the amended credit facility to maintain a minimum unrestricted cash balance (as defined in the amended credit facility) of $1.0 billion at all times; a minimum ratio of collateral value to debt obligations (that may increase if a specified dollar value of the route collateral is released); and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.5 to 1.0 for twelve month periods measured at the end of each calendar quarter. among other covenants, the indentures governing the senior notes require the issuer to maintain a minimum ratio of collateral value to debt obligations. if the value of the collateral underlying that issuer senior notes declines such that the issuer no longer maintains the minimum required ratio of collateral value to debt obligations, the issuer may be required to pay additional interest at the rate of 2% per annum, provide additional collateral to secure the noteholders lien or repay a portion of the senior notes. 14 table of contents the company ability to comply with the covenants in the amended credit facility and the indentures governing the senior notes may be affected by events beyond its control, including the overall industry revenue environment and the level of fuel costs, and the company may be required to seek waivers or amendments of covenants, repay all or a portion of the debt or find alternative sources of financing. the company cannot provide assurance that such waivers, amendments or alternative financing could be obtained or, if obtained, would be on terms acceptable to the company. a breach of certain of the covenants or restrictions contained in the amended credit facility or indentures governing the senior notes could result in a default and a subsequent acceleration of the applicable debt obligations. in addition, the indentures governing the united senior notes contain a cross-acceleration provision pursuant to which a default resulting in the acceleration of indebtedness under the amended credit facility would result in a default under such indentures. a default under these indentures could allow holders of the united senior notes to accelerate the maturity of the obligations in these indentures. see note 14 to the financial statements included in item 8 of this report for further discussion of our operating and financial covenants under certain of the company financing agreements. the company may be unable to continue to comply with certain covenants in agreements with financial institutions that process customer credit card transactions, which, if not complied with, could materially and adversely affect the company liquidity. united and continental have agreements with financial institutions that process customer credit card transactions for the sale of air travel and other services. under certain of united and continental credit card processing agreements, the financial institutions either require, or under certain circumstances have the right to require, that united and continental maintain a reserve equal to a portion of advance ticket sales that have been processed by that financial institution, but for which united and continental have not yet provided the air transportation (referred to as relevant advance ticket sales ). united credit card processing agreement with paymentech and jpmorgan chase bank, n.a. ( jpmorgan chase ) contains a cash reserve requirement, determined based on the amount of unrestricted cash held by united as defined under the amended credit facility. if united unrestricted cash balance is at or more than $2.5 billion as of any calendar month-end measurement date, its required reserve will remain at $25 million. however, if united unrestricted cash balance is less than $2.5 billion or certain lower minimum cash amounts, its required reserve will increase to stated percentages of relevant advance ticket sales that could be significant. based on united december 31, 2010 unrestricted cash balance, united was not required to provide cash collateral above the current $25 million reserve balance. under united credit card processing agreement with american express, in addition to certain other risk protections provided to american express, united is required to provide reserves based primarily on its unrestricted cash balance and net current exposure as of any calendar month-end measurement date with united required reserves increasing to stated percentages of net current exposure that could be significant as united unrestricted cash balance falls below certain minimum cash amounts. the agreement with american express permits united to provide certain replacement collateral in lieu of cash collateral, as long as united unrestricted cash is above $1.35 billion. such replacement collateral may be pledged for any amount of the required reserve up to the full amount thereof, with the stated value of such collateral determined according to the agreement. replacement collateral may be comprised of aircraft, slots and routes, real estate or other collateral as agreed between the parties. based on united unrestricted cash balance at december 31, 2010, united was not required to provide any reserves under this agreement. continental credit card processing agreement with jpmorgan chase and affiliates of jpmorgan chase contains financial covenants that require, among other things, that continental post additional cash collateral if it fails to maintain (1) a minimum level of continental unrestricted cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, (2) a minimum ratio of continental unrestricted cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments 15 table of contents to current liabilities of 0.25 to 1.0 or (3) a minimum senior unsecured debt rating for continental of at least caa3 and ccc- from moody and standard &amp; poor s, respectively. if a covenant trigger under the jpmorgan chase processing agreement results in continental posting additional collateral under that agreement, continental will also be required to post additional collateral under its credit card processing agreement with american express that could be significant. if continental unrestricted cash balance is at or more than $2.0 billion as of any calendar month-end measurement date, its required reserve will remain at $25 million. however, if continental unrestricted cash balance is less than $2.0 billion or certain lower minimum cash amounts, its required reserve will increase to stated percentages of relevant advance ticket sales that could be significant. based on continental december 31, 2010 unrestricted cash balance, continental was not required to provide cash collateral above the current $25 million reserve balance. an increase in the future reserve requirements and the posting of a significant amount of cash collateral, as provided by the terms of any or all of united and continental material credit card processing agreements, could materially reduce the company liquidity. see note 17 to the financial statements included in item 8 of this report for a detailed discussion of our obligations under the company credit card processing agreements. the company may not be able to maintain adequate liquidity. the company has a significant amount of financial leverage from fixed obligations, including aircraft lease and debt financings, leases of airport property and other facilities, and other material cash obligations. in addition, the company has substantial non-cancelable commitments for capital expenditures, including the acquisition of new aircraft and related spare engines. while the company cash flows from operations and its available capital, including the proceeds from financing transactions, have been sufficient to meet these obligations and commitments to date, the company future liquidity could be negatively impacted by the risk factors discussed in this item 1a, including, but not limited to, substantial volatility in the price of fuel, adverse economic conditions and disruptions in the global capital markets. in the event that the company liquidity is constrained due to the factors noted above or otherwise, the company failure to comply with certain financial covenants under its financing and credit card processing agreements, timely pay its debts, or comply with other material provisions of its contractual obligations could result in a variety of adverse consequences, including the acceleration of the company indebtedness, the increase of required reserves under credit card processing agreements, the withholding of credit card sale proceeds by its credit card service providers and the exercise of other remedies by its creditors and equipment lessors that could result in material adverse effects on the company financial position and results of operations. further, certain of the company debt is secured by collateral and the company may have limited remaining assets available as collateral for loans or other indebtedness, which may make it difficult to raise additional capital to meet its liquidity needs. the company level of indebtedness, non-investment grade credit rating and the current market conditions may also make it difficult for the company to raise capital to meet its liquidity needs and may increase its cost of borrowing. a higher cost of capital could negatively impact its results of operations, financial position and liquidity. see item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, for further information regarding the company liquidity. economic and industry conditions constantly change and unfavorable global economic conditions may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company business and results of operations are significantly impacted by general economic and industry conditions. the airline industry is highly cyclical, and the level of demand for air travel is correlated to the strength of the u.s. and global economies. robust demand for our air transportation services depends largely 16 table of contents on favorable general economic conditions, including the strength of the global and local economies, low unemployment levels, strong consumer confidence levels and the availability of consumer and business credit. for leisure travelers, air transportation is often a discretionary purchase that those consumers can eliminate from their spending in difficult economic times. in addition, during periods of unfavorable economic conditions, businesses usually reduce the volume of their business travel, either due to cost-savings initiatives or as a result of decreased business activity requiring travel. the overall demand for air transportation in the united states significantly decreased in 2008 and 2009 due to the severe global economic recession, and this decline in demand disproportionately reduced the volume of high-yield traffic in the premium cabins on domestic and international flights, as many business travelers either curtailed their travel or purchased lower yield economy tickets. decreases in passenger and cargo demand that resulted in lower passenger volumes and lower ticket fares had a significant adverse impact on our results of operations in 2008 and 2009. while some economic indicators are beginning to exhibit growth, other economic indicators that may reflect an economic recovery, such as unemployment, may not improve for an extended period of time. in addition, decreases in cargo revenues due to lower demand have a disproportionate impact on our operating results as our cargo revenues generally have higher margins as compared to our passenger revenues. stagnant or worsening global economic conditions that contribute to reduced passenger and cargo revenues may have a material adverse effect on the company revenues, results of operations and liquidity. in addition to its effect on demand for our services, the global economic recession severely disrupted the global capital markets, resulting in a diminished availability of financing and a higher cost for financing that was obtainable. although access to the capital markets has improved, if economic conditions again worsen or these markets experience further disruptions, we may be unable to obtain financing on acceptable terms (or at all) to refinance certain maturing debt and to satisfy future capital commitments. continued periods of historically high fuel costs or significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a material adverse impact on the company operating results. expenditures for aircraft fuel and related taxes represent one of the largest single costs of operating the company business. the company financial condition and result of operations may be significantly impacted by the availability and price of aircraft fuel. while the company arranges to have fuel shipped on major pipelines and stored close to its major hub locations to ensure supply continuity in the short term, the company cannot predict the continued future availability of aircraft fuel. at times, due to the highly competitive nature of the airline industry, the company has not been able to increase its fares or other fees sufficiently to offset increased fuel costs. fuel prices continue to be volatile which may negatively impact the company liquidity in the future. the company may not be able to increase its fares or other fees if fuel prices rise in the future and any such increases may not be sustainable in the highly competitive airline industry. in addition, any increases in fares or other fees may not sufficiently offset the fuel price increase and may reduce the demand for air travel. the company enters into hedging arrangements to protect against rising fuel costs. however, the company hedging programs may use significant amounts of cash due to posting of cash collateral in some circumstances, may not be successful in controlling fuel costs and may be limited due to market conditions and other factors. in addition, significant declines in fuel prices may increase the costs associated with the company fuel hedging arrangements to the extent it has entered into swaps or collars. swaps and sold put options (as part of a collar) may obligate us to make payments to the counterparty upon settlement of the contracts if the price of the commodity hedged falls below the agreed upon amount. declining crude and related oil prices may result in the company posting significant amounts of collateral to cover potential amounts owed (beyond certain credit-based thresholds) with respect to swap and collar contracts that have not yet settled. also, lower fuel prices may result in increased industry capacity and lower fares, especially to the extent that reduced fuel costs justify increased utilization by airlines of less fuel efficient aircraft. 17 table of contents there can be no assurance that the company hedging arrangements will provide any particular level of protection against increases or declines in fuel costs or that its counterparties will be able to perform under the company hedging arrangements. additionally, deterioration in the company financial condition could negatively affect its ability to enter into new hedge contracts in the future and may potentially require the company to post increased amounts of collateral under its fuel hedging agreements. see note 13 to the financial statements included in item 8 for additional information on the company hedging programs. terrorist attacks or international hostilities, or the fear of terrorist attacks or hostilities, even if not made directly on the airline industry, could negatively affect the company and the airline industry. the terrorist attacks of september 11, 2001 involving commercial aircraft severely and adversely impacted each of united and continental financial condition and results of operations, as well as the prospects for the airline industry. among the effects experienced from the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks were substantial flight disruption costs caused by the faa-imposed temporary grounding of the u.s. airline industry fleet, significantly increased security costs and associated passenger inconvenience, increased insurance costs, substantially higher ticket refunds and significantly decreased traffic and passenger revenue. additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of or the precautions taken in anticipation of such attacks (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights) could materially and adversely affect the company and the airline industry. wars and other international hostilities could also have a material adverse impact on the company financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. the company financial resources might not be sufficient to absorb the adverse effects of any further terrorist attacks or other international hostilities involving the united states or u.s. interests. the airline industry is highly competitive and susceptible to price discounting and changes in capacity, which could have a material adverse effect on the company. the u.s. airline industry is characterized by substantial price competition. in recent years, the market share held by low-cost carriers has increased significantly and is expected to continue to increase. the increased market presence of low-cost carriers, which engage in substantial price discounting, has diminished the ability of large network carriers to exercise pricing power and maintain sufficient fare levels in domestic markets to achieve sustained profitability. airlines also compete for market share by increasing or decreasing their capacity, including route systems and the number of markets served. several of the company domestic competitors have increased their international capacity by including service to some destinations that the company currently serves, causing overlap in destinations served and therefore increasing competition for those destinations. in addition, the company and certain of its competitors have implemented significant capacity reductions in recent years in response to the global recession. further, certain of the company competitors may not reduce capacity or may increase capacity, thereby diminishing the expected benefit to the company from capacity reductions. this increased competition in both domestic and international markets may have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. the airline industry may undergo further bankruptcy restructuring, industry consolidation, or the creation or modification of alliances or joint ventures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the company. the company faces and may to continue to face strong competition from other carriers due to bankruptcy restructuring, industry consolidation, and the creation and modification of alliances and joint ventures. a number of carriers have filed for bankruptcy protection in recent years and other domestic and international carriers could restructure in bankruptcy or threaten to do so in the future to reduce their costs. carriers operating under 18 table of contents bankruptcy protection can operate in a manner that could be adverse to the company and could emerge from bankruptcy as more vigorous competitors. since 2008, the u.s. airline industry has experienced consolidation through a number of mergers and acquisitions. the company is also facing stronger competition from expanded airline alliances and joint ventures. carriers entering into and participating in airline alliances and/or joint ventures may also become strong competitors as they are able to coordinate routes, pool revenues and costs, and enjoy other mutual benefits, achieving many of the benefits of consolidation. open skies agreements, including the agreements between the united states and the eu and between the united states and japan, may also give rise to additional consolidation or better integration opportunities among international carriers. there is ongoing speculation that further airline industry reorganizations or consolidations could occur in the future. the company routinely engages in analysis and discussions regarding its own strategic position, including alliances, asset acquisitions and divestitures and business combinations, and may have future discussions with other airlines regarding strategic activities. if other airlines participate in such activities, those airlines may significantly improve their cost structures or revenue generation capabilities, thereby potentially making them stronger competitors of the company and potentially impairing the company ability to realize expected benefits from its own strategic relationships. additional security requirements may increase the company costs and decrease its revenues and traffic. since september 11, 2001, the department of homeland security ( dhs ) and the transportation security administration have implemented numerous security measures that affect airline operations and costs, including the presence of federal air marshals, use of passenger data, limitations on the content of carry-on baggage, expanded cargo and baggage screening, and body scanning, fingerprinting and photographing, and are likely to implement additional measures in the future. in addition, foreign governments have also instituted additional security measures at foreign airports the company serves. a substantial portion of the costs of these security measures is borne by the airlines and their passengers, increasing the company costs and/or reducing its revenue and traffic. additional measures taken to enhance either passenger or cargo security procedures and/or to recover associated costs in the future may increase the company costs and/or decrease the demand for air travel, and may result in related adverse effects on the company results of operations. extensive government regulation could materially increase the company operating costs and restrict its ability to conduct its business. airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements that result in significant costs and may have adverse effects. laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges, both domestically and internationally, have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce airline revenue. the company cannot provide any assurance that current laws and regulations, or laws or regulations enacted in the future, will not adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations. each of united and continental operates under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued by the dot. if the dot altered, amended, modified, suspended or revoked these certificates, it could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the faa from time to time also issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require material expenditures or operational restrictions by the company, and which could include the temporary grounding of an entire aircraft type if the faa identifies design, manufacturing, maintenance or other issues requiring immediate corrective action. faa requirements cover, among other things, retirement of older aircraft, security measures, collision avoidance systems, airborne windshear avoidance systems, noise abatement and other environmental concerns, aircraft operation and safety and increased inspections and maintenance procedures to be conducted on older aircraft. these faa directives or requirements could have a material adverse effect on the company. 19 table of contents in addition, the company operations may be adversely impacted due to the existing antiquated air traffic control ( atc ) system utilized by the u.s. government. during peak travel periods in certain markets, the current atc system inability to handle existing travel demand has led to short-term capacity constraints imposed by government agencies and resulted in delays and disruptions of air traffic. in addition, the current system will not be able to effectively handle projected future air traffic growth. imposition of these atc constraints on a long-term basis may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. failure to update the atc system in a timely manner, and the substantial funding requirements of a modernized atc system that may be imposed on air carriers may have an adverse impact on the company financial condition or results of operations. the airline industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local taxes and fees that increase the cost of the company operations. in addition to taxes and fees that the company is currently subject to, proposed taxes and fees are currently pending and if imposed, would increase the company operating expenses. access to landing and take-off rights, or slots, at several major u.s. airports and many foreign airports served by the company are, or recently have been, subject to government regulation. certain of the company major hubs are among increasingly congested airports in the united states and have been or could be the subject of regulatory action that might limit the number of flights and/or increase costs of operations at certain times or throughout the day. the faa may limit the company airport access by limiting the number of departure and arrival slots at high density traffic airports, which could affect the company ownership and transfer rights, and local airport authorities may have the ability to control access to certain facilities or the cost of access to its facilities, which could have an adverse effect on the company business. in addition, in 2008, the faa planned to withdraw and auction a certain number of slots held by airlines at the three primary new york area airports, which the airlines challenged and the faa terminated in 2009. if the faa were to plan another auction that survived legal challenge by the airlines, the company could incur substantial costs to obtain such slots. further, the company operating costs at airports at which it operates, including the company major hubs, may increase significantly because of capital improvements at such airports that the company may be required to fund, directly or indirectly. in some circumstances, such costs could be imposed by the relevant airport authority without the company approval and may have a material adverse effect on the company financial condition. the ability of u.s. carriers to operate international routes is subject to change because the applicable arrangements between the united states and foreign governments may be amended from time to time, or because appropriate slots or facilities may not be made available. the company currently operates on a number of international routes under government arrangements that limit the number of carriers permitted to operate on the route, the capacity of the carriers providing services on the route, or the number of carriers allowed access to particular airports. if an open skies policy were to be adopted for any of these routes, such an event could have a material adverse impact on the company financial position and results of operations and could result in the impairment of material amounts of related tangible and intangible assets. in addition, competition from revenue-sharing joint ventures and other alliance arrangements by and among other airlines could impair the value of the company business and assets on the open skies routes. the company plans to enter into or expand antitrust immunized joint ventures for various international regions are subject to receipt of approvals from applicable federal authorities or otherwise satisfying applicable regulatory requirements, and there can be no assurance that such approvals will be granted or applicable regulatory requirements will be satisfied. many aspects of the company operations are also subject to increasingly stringent federal, state, local and international laws protecting the environment. future environmental regulatory developments, such as climate change regulations in the united states and abroad could adversely affect operations and increase operating costs in the airline industry. there are certain climate change laws and regulations that have already gone into effect and that apply to the company, including the eu ets (subject to legal challenge), the state of california cap 20 table of contents and trade regulations, environmental taxes for certain international flights, limited greenhouse gas reporting requirements and land-use planning laws which could apply to airports and could affect airlines in certain circumstances. in addition, there is the potential for additional regulatory actions in regard to the emission of greenhouse gases by the aviation industry. the precise nature of future requirements and their applicability to the company are difficult to predict, but the financial impact to the company and the aviation industry would likely be adverse and could be significant. see item 1, business industry regulation , above, for further information on government regulation impacting the company. the company results of operations fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors associated with the airline industry. due to greater demand for air travel during the spring and summer months, revenues in the airline industry in the second and third quarters of the year are generally stronger than revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year. the company results of operations generally reflect this seasonality, but have also been impacted by numerous other factors that are not necessarily seasonal including, among others, the imposition of excise and similar taxes, extreme or severe weather, air traffic control congestion, geological events, natural disasters, changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation and other factors and general economic conditions. as a result, the company quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year and historical operating results in a quarterly or annual period are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. the company could experience adverse publicity, harm to its brand, reduced travel demand and potential tort liability as a result of an accident or other catastrophe involving its aircraft, the aircraft of its regional carriers or the aircraft of its codeshare partners, which may result in a material adverse effect on the company results of operations or financial position. an accident or catastrophe involving an aircraft that the company operates, or an aircraft that is operated by a codeshare partner or one of the company regional carriers, could have a material adverse effect on the company if such accident created a public perception that the company operations, or the operations of its codeshare partners or regional carriers, are less safe or reliable than other airlines. such public perception could in turn cause harm to the company brand and reduce travel demand on the company flights, or the flights or its codeshare partners or regional carriers. in addition, any such accident could expose the company to significant tort liability. although the company currently maintains liability insurance in amounts and of the type the company believes to be consistent with industry practice to cover damages arising from any such accident, and the company codeshare partners and regional carriers carry similar insurance and generally indemnify the company for their operations, if the company liability exceeds the applicable policy limits or the ability of another carrier to indemnify it, the company could incur substantial losses from an accident which may result in a material adverse effect on the company results of operations or financial position. ual obligations for funding continental defined benefit pension plans are affected by factors beyond ual control. continental has defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all of its u.s. employees, other than the employees of its chelsea food services division and continental micronesia, inc. the timing and amount of ual funding requirements under continental plans depend upon a number of factors, including labor negotiations with the applicable employee groups and changes to pension plan benefits as well as factors outside of ual control, such as the number of applicable retiring employees, asset returns, interest rates and changes in pension laws. changes to these and other factors that can significantly increase ual funding requirements, such as its liquidity requirements, could have a material adverse effect on ual financial condition. 21 table of contents the company may never realize the full value of its intangible assets or our long-lived assets causing it to record impairments that may negatively affect its results of operations. in accordance with applicable accounting standards, the company is required to test its indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis on october 1 of each year, or more frequently if conditions indicate that an impairment may have occurred. in addition, the company is required to test certain of its other assets for impairment if conditions indicate that an impairment may have occurred. during the years ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the company performed impairment tests of certain intangible assets and certain long-lived assets (principally aircraft, related spare engines and spare parts). the interim impairment tests were due to events and changes in circumstances that indicated an impairment might have occurred. certain of the factors deemed by management to have indicated that impairments may have occurred include a significant decrease in actual and forecasted revenues, record high fuel prices, significant losses, a weak u.s. economy, and changes in the planned use of assets. as a result of the impairment testing, the company recorded significant impairment charges as described in note 4 to the financial statements included in item 8. the company may be required to recognize additional impairments in the future due to, among other factors, extreme fuel price volatility, tight credit markets, a decline in the fair value of certain tangible or intangible assets, unfavorable trends in historical or forecasted results of operations and cash flows and the uncertain economic environment, as well as other uncertainties. the company can provide no assurance that a material impairment charge of tangible or intangible assets will not occur in a future period. the value of our aircraft could be impacted in future periods by changes in supply and demand for these aircraft. such changes in supply and demand for certain aircraft types could result from grounding of aircraft by the company or other carriers. an impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on the company financial position and results of operations. union disputes, employee strikes or slowdowns, and other labor-related disruptions, as well as the integration of the united and continental workforces in connection with the merger, present the potential for a delay in achieving expected merger synergies, increased labor costs or additional labor disputes that could adversely affect the company operations and impair its financial performance. united and continental are both highly unionized companies. as of december 31, 2010, ual and its subsidiaries had approximately 86,000 active employees, of whom approximately 72% were represented by various u.s. labor organizations. the successful integration of united and continental and achievement of the anticipated benefits of the combination depend in part on integrating united and continental employee groups and maintaining productive employee relations. failure to do so presents the potential for delays in achieving expected merger synergies, increased labor costs and labor disputes that could adversely affect our operations. in order to fully integrate the pre-merger represented employee groups, the company must negotiate a joint collective bargaining agreement covering each combined group. the process for integrating the labor groups of united and continental is governed by a combination of the rla, the mccaskill-bond amendment, and where applicable, the existing provisions of each company collective bargaining agreements and union policy. pending operational integration, the company will apply the terms of the existing collective bargaining agreements unless other terms have been negotiated. under the mccaskill-bond amendment , seniority integration must be accomplished in a fair and equitable manner consistent with the process set forth in the allegheny-mohawk labor protective provisions or internal union merger policies, if applicable. employee dissatisfaction with the results of the seniority integration may lead to litigation that in some cases can delay implementation of the integrated seniority list. the national mediation board has exclusive authority to resolve representation disputes arising out of airline mergers. following announcement of the merger, alpa, which represents pilots at both carriers, opted to pursue negotiations with the company for a joint collective bargaining agreement ( jcba ) that would govern the combined pilot group. in july 2010, united and continental reached agreement with alpa on a transition and process agreement that provides a framework for conducting pilot operations of the two groups until the parties 22 table of contents reach agreement on a jcba and the carriers obtain a single operating certificate. in august 2010, united and continental began joint negotiations with alpa and the negotiations are presently ongoing. the company can provide no assurance that a successful or timely resolution of labor negotiations for all amendable agreements will be achieved. there is a risk that unions or individual employees might pursue judicial or arbitral claims arising out of changes implemented as a result of the merger. there is also a possibility that employees or unions could engage in job actions such as slow-downs, work-to-rule campaigns, sick-outs or other actions designed to disrupt united and continental normal operations, in an attempt to pressure the companies in collective bargaining negotiations. although the rla makes such actions unlawful until the parties have been lawfully released to self-help, and united and continental can seek injunctive relief against premature self-help, such actions can cause significant harm even if ultimately enjoined. in 2008, united obtained a preliminary injunction preventing united pilots from engaging in any actions designed to disrupt united normal operations. as a result of an agreement between the parties, the preliminary injunction will remain in place until united and alpa have negotiated a new collective bargaining agreement. increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage may materially and adversely impact the company results of operations and financial condition. the terrorist attacks of september 11, 2001 led to a significant increase in insurance premiums and a decrease in the insurance coverage available to commercial airlines. accordingly, the company insurance costs increased significantly and its ability to continue to obtain certain types of insurance remains uncertain. the company has obtained third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance through a special program administered by the faa, resulting in lower premiums than if it had obtained this insurance in the commercial insurance market. should the government discontinue this coverage, obtaining comparable coverage from commercial underwriters could result in substantially higher premiums and more restrictive terms, if it is available at all. if the company is unable to obtain adequate war risk insurance, its business could be materially and adversely affected. if any of the company aircraft were to be involved in an accident or if the company property or operations were to be affected by a significant natural catastrophe or other event, the company could be exposed to significant liability or loss. if the company is unable to obtain sufficient insurance (including aviation hull and liability insurance and property and business interruption coverage) to cover such liabilities or losses, whether due to insurance market conditions or otherwise, its results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. the company relies heavily on technology and automated systems to operate its business and any significant failure or disruption of the technology or these systems could materially harm its business. the company depends on automated systems and technology to operate its business, including computerized airline reservation systems, flight operations systems, telecommunication systems and commercial websites, including www.united.com and www.continental.com. united and continental websites and other automated systems must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver important flight and schedule information, as well as process critical financial transactions. these systems could suffer substantial or repeated disruptions due to events beyond the company control, including natural disasters, power failures, terrorist attacks, equipment or software failures, computer viruses or hackers. substantial or repeated website, reservations systems or telecommunication systems failures could reduce the attractiveness of the company services versus its competitors, materially impair its ability to market its services and operate its flights, and could result in increased costs, lost revenue and the loss or compromise of important data. the company business relies extensively on third-party providers. failure of these parties to perform as expected, or interruptions in the company relationships with these providers or their provision of services to the company, could have an adverse effect on the company financial position and results of operations. the company has engaged an increasing number of third-party service providers to perform a large number of functions that are integral to its business, including regional operations, operation of customer service call 23 table of contents centers, distribution and sale of airline seat inventory, provision of information technology infrastructure and services, provision of aircraft maintenance and repairs, provision of various utilities and performance of aircraft fueling operations, among other vital functions and services. the company does not directly control these third-party providers, although it does enter into agreements with many of them that define expected service performance. any of these third-party providers, however, may materially fail to meet their service performance commitments to the company or agreements with such providers may be terminated. for example, flight reservations booked by customers and travel agents via third-party gdss may be affected by changes to the contract terms between the company and gds operators. a failure to agree upon acceptable contract terms when these contracts expire or otherwise become subject to renegotiation, which is scheduled to occur for some of these contracts later in 2011, or other disruptions in the business relationships between the company and gds operators, may cause the carriers flight information to be limited or unavailable for display, significantly increase fees for both the company and gds users, and impair the company relationships with its customers and travel agents. the failure of any of the company third-party service providers to adequately perform their service obligations, or other interruptions of services, may reduce the company revenues and increase its expenses or prevent the company from operating its flights and providing other services to its customers. in addition, the company business and financial performance could be materially harmed if its customers believe that its services are unreliable or unsatisfactory. the company ability to use its net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for u.s. federal income tax purposes may be significantly limited due to various circumstances, including certain possible future transactions involving the sale or issuance of ual common stock, or if taxable income does not reach sufficient levels. as of december 31, 2010, ual reported consolidated federal net operating loss ( nol ) carryforwards of approximately $11.6 billion. the company ability to use its nol carryforwards may be limited if it experiences an ownership change as defined in section 382 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended ( section 382 ). an ownership change generally occurs if certain stockholders increase their aggregate percentage ownership of a corporation stock by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest percentage ownership at any time during the testing period, which is generally the three-year period preceding any potential ownership change. as of october 1, 2010, ual corporation and continental each experienced an ownership change under section 382 in connection with the merger. while these merger-related ownership changes are not expected to significantly limit the company use of its nol carryforwards in the carryforward period, there is no assurance that the company will not experience a future ownership change under section 382 that may significantly limit or possibly eliminate its ability to use its nol carryforwards. potential future transactions involving the sale or issuance of ual common stock, including the exercise of conversion options under the terms of the company convertible debt, repurchase of such debt with ual common stock, issuance of ual common stock for cash and the acquisition or disposition of such stock by a stockholder owning 5% or more of ual common stock, or a combination of such transactions, may increase the possibility that the company will experience a future ownership change under section 382. under section 382, a future ownership change would subject the company to an annual limitation that applies to the amount of pre-ownership change nols that may be used to offset post-ownership change taxable income. this limitation is generally determined by multiplying the value of a corporation stock immediately before the ownership change by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate. any unused annual limitation may, subject to certain limits, be carried over to later years, and the limitation may under certain circumstances be increased by built-in gains in the assets held by such corporation at the time of the ownership change. this limitation could cause the company u.s. federal income taxes to be greater, or to be paid earlier, than they otherwise would be, and could cause all or a portion of the company nol carryforwards to expire unused. similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes. the company ability to use its nol carryforwards will also depend on the amount of taxable income it generates in future periods. its nol carryforwards may expire before the company can generate sufficient taxable income to use them in full. 24 table of contents ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation limits certain transfers of its stock which could have an effect on the market price of ual common stock. to reduce the risk of a potential adverse effect on the company ability to use its nol carryforwards for federal income tax purposes, ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains a 5% ownership limitation. this limitation generally remains effective until february 1, 2014, or until such later date as may be approved by the ual board of directors (the board of directors ) in its sole discretion. the limitation prohibits (i) an acquisition by a single stockholder of shares that results in that stockholder owning 5% or more of ual common stock and (ii) any acquisition or disposition of common stock by a stockholder that already owns 5% or more of ual common stock, unless prior written approval is granted by the board of directors. any transfer of common stock in violation of these restrictions will be void and will be treated as if such transfer never occurred. this provision of ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation may impair or prevent a sale of common stock by a stockholder and adversely affect the price at which a stockholder can sell ual common stock. in addition, this limitation may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the company, creating a perception that a change in control cannot occur or otherwise discouraging takeover attempts that some stockholders may consider beneficial, which could also adversely affect the market price of the ual common stock. the company cannot predict the effect that this provision in ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation may have on the market price of the ual common stock. for additional information regarding the 5% ownership limitation, please refer to ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation available on the company website. the company is subject to economic and political instability and other risks of doing business globally. the company is a global business with operations outside of the united states from which it derives approximately one-third of its operating revenues, as measured and reported to the dot. the company operations in asia, europe, latin america, africa and the middle east are a vital part of its worldwide airline network. volatile economic, political and market conditions in these international regions may have a negative impact on the company operating results and its ability to achieve its business objectives. in addition, significant or volatile changes in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and other currencies, and the imposition of exchange controls or other currency restrictions, may have a material adverse impact upon the company liquidity, revenues, costs and operating results. the company could be adversely affected by an outbreak of a disease, or similar public health threats, that affect travel behavior. an outbreak of a disease that affects travel demand or travel behavior, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome, avian flu or h1n1 virus, or other illness, or travel restrictions or reduction in the demand for air travel caused by similar public health threats in the future, could have a material adverse impact on the company business, financial condition and results of operations. certain provisions of ual governance documents could discourage or delay changes of control or changes to the board of directors. certain provisions of ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws (together, the governance documents ) may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the board of directors and may discourage takeover attempts that some of its stockholders may consider beneficial. certain provisions of the governance documents may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if the board of directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of ual and its stockholders. these provisions of the governance documents are not intended to prevent a takeover, but are intended to protect and maximize the value of ual stockholders interests. while these provisions have the 25 table of contents effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of ual to negotiate with the board of directors, they could enable the board of directors to prevent a transaction that some, or a majority, of its stockholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. the issuance of ual 8% contingent senior notes could materially and adversely impact the company results of operations, liquidity and financial position. ual would be obligated under an indenture to issue to the pension benefit guarantee corporation ( pbgc ) up to $500 million aggregate principal amount of 8% contingent senior notes (the 8% notes ) if certain financial triggering events occur. the 8% notes would be issued in up to eight equal tranches of $62.5 million (with each tranche issued no later than 45 days following the end of any applicable fiscal year). a triggering event occurs when ual ebitdar (as defined in the pbgc indenture) exceeds $3.5 billion over the prior twelve months ending june 30 or december 31 of any applicable fiscal year. the twelve-month measurement periods began with the fiscal year ended december 31, 2009 and will end with the fiscal year ending december 31, 2017. however, if the issuance of a tranche would cause a default under any other securities then existing, ual may satisfy its obligations with respect to such tranche by issuing ual common stock having a market value equal to $62.5 million. each issued tranche will mature 15 years from its respective triggering event date, with interest payable in cash in semi-annual installments, and will be callable, at ual option, at any time at par, plus accrued and unpaid interest. because continental ebitdar will be included in the calculation for periods subsequent to the closing of the merger, the merger increases the likelihood that all or a portion of the 8% notes will be issued, as well as the likelihood that the timing of any such issuances would be accelerated. however, because the issuance of the 8% notes is based upon future operating results, we cannot predict the exact number and timing of any such issuances by the company. the issuance of the 8% notes could adversely impact the company results of operations because of increased charges to earnings for the principal amount of the notes issued and increased interest expense related to the notes. issuance of such notes could also materially and adversely impact the company liquidity due to increased cash required to meet interest and principal payments. delays in scheduled aircraft deliveries may adversely affect the company ability to expand its capacity. the company from time to time acquires additional aircraft to increase its domestic and international capacity when the level of demand for air travel supports such growth. the company has contractual commitments to purchase aircraft that it currently believes is necessary for its capacity growth. delays in aircraft deliveries under those contractual commitments may occur and the company has been, and may in the future be, adversely impacted by those delays. if significant additional delays in the deliveries of new aircraft occur, the company may be able to accomplish capacity increases only by making alternative arrangements to acquire the necessary aircraft, if available and possibly on less financially favorable terms, including higher ownership and operating costs. the issuance of additional shares of ual capital stock, including the issuance of common stock upon conversion of convertible notes and upon a noteholder exercise of its option to require ual to repurchase convertible notes, could cause dilution to the interests of its existing stockholders. ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes up to one billion shares of common stock. in certain circumstances, ual can issue shares of common stock without stockholder approval. in addition, the board of directors is authorized to issue up to 250 million shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of ual stockholders. the board of directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any series of shares of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, conversion rights, dividend rights, preferences over ual common stock with respect to dividends or if ual liquidates, dissolves or winds up its business and other terms. if ual issues preferred stock in the future that has a preference over its common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon its liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if ual issues preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of its common stock, the rights of holders of its common stock or the market price of its common stock could be adversely affected. 26 table of contents ual is also authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, other securities convertible into either preferred stock or, in certain circumstances, common stock. as of december 31, 2010, ual had $1.7 billion of convertible debt outstanding. holders of these securities may convert them into shares of ual common stock according to their terms. in addition, certain of ual notes include noteholder early redemption options. if a noteholder exercises such option, ual may elect to pay the repurchase price in cash, shares of its common stock or a combination thereof. if ual elects to pay the repurchase price in shares of its common stock, ual is obligated to deliver a number of shares of common stock equal to the repurchase price divided by an average price of ual common stock for a 20-consecutive trading day period. see note 14 to the financial statements included in item 8 of this report for additional information related to these convertible notes. the number of shares issued could be significant and such an issuance could cause significant dilution to the interests of its existing stockholders. in addition, if ual elects to pay the repurchase price in cash, its liquidity could be adversely affected. in the future, ual may decide to raise additional capital through offerings of ual common stock, securities convertible into ual common stock, or exercise rights to acquire these securities or its common stock. the issuance of additional shares of common stock, including upon the conversion or repurchase of convertible debt, could result in significant dilution of existing stockholders equity interests in ual. issuances of substantial amounts of its common stock, or the perception that such issuances could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for ual common stock and ual cannot predict the effect this dilution may have on the price of its common stock. ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation limits voting rights of certain foreign persons. ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation limits the total number of shares of equity securities held by persons who fail to qualify as a citizen of the united states, as defined in section 40102(a)(15) of title 49 of the united states code, to no more than 24.9% of the aggregate votes of all outstanding equity securities of ual. this restriction is applied pro rata among all holders of equity securities who fail to qualify as citizens of the united states, based on the number of votes to which the underlying securities are entitled. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 71 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rates. our net income (loss) is affected by fluctuations in interest rates (e.g. interest expense on variable-rate debt and interest income earned on short-term investments). the company policy is to manage interest rate risk through a combination of fixed and variable rate debt and by entering into swap agreements, depending upon market conditions. the following table summarizes information related to the company interest rate market risk at december 31, 2010 (in millions): ual (a) united (a) continental variable rate debt carrying value of variable-rate debt at december 31, 2010 (b) $ 3,758 $ 2,400 $ 1,358 impact of 100 basis point increase on projected 2011 interest expense (c) 37 24 13 fixed rate debt carrying value of fixed rate debt at december 31, 2010 (d) 10,087 4,626 5,043 fair value of fixed rate debt at december 31, 2010 (e) 11,292 5,026 5,284 impact of 100 basis point increase in market rates on fair value (f) 369 159 206 (a) ual and united presented interest rate market risk disclosures in a tabular format in 2009. management believes that the sensitivity analysis presentation provides a better disclosure by quantifying the potential impact of an assumed interest rate change. due to this change, ual and united are also disclosing sensitivity analysis for their debt outstanding at december 31, 2009. (b) as of december 31, 2009, ual, united and continental had outstanding variable rate debt of $2.6 billion, $2.6 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively. (c) based on ual and united variable rate debt at december 31, 2009, the impact of an assumed 100 basis point change for ual and united on 2010 interest expense would have been $26 million. (d) as of december 31, 2009, ual, united and continental had outstanding fixed rate debt with a carrying value of $4.7 billion, $4.3 billion and $4.1 billion, respectively. (e) as of december 31, 2009, ual, united and continental had fixed rate debt with a fair value of $4.1 billion, $3.5 billion and $4.0 billion, respectively. (f) if market interest rates increased 100 basis points at december 31, 2009, the fair value of ual and united fixed-rate debt outstanding at december 31, 2009, would have decreased by approximately $83 million and $80 million, respectively. a change in market interest rates would also impact interest income earned on our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. assuming our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments remain at their average 2010 levels, a 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would result in a corresponding increase or decrease in ual, united and continental interest income of approximately $77 million, $43 million and $34 million, respectively, during 2011. commodity price risk (aircraft fuel). our results of operations and liquidity are significantly impacted by changes in the price of aircraft fuel. to protect against increases in the prices of aircraft fuel, the company routinely hedges a portion of its future fuel requirements, provided the hedges are expected to be cost effective. the company uses fixed price swaps, purchased call options, collars or other such commonly used financial hedge instruments. these hedge instruments are based directly on aircraft fuel or closely related commodities like heating oil and crude oil. the company strives to maintain fuel hedging levels and exposure consistent with industry standards so that the company fuel cost is not disproportionate to the fuel costs of its major competitors. some hedge instruments may result in losses if the underlying commodity prices drop below specified floors or swap prices. however, the negative impact of these losses may be outweighed by the benefit of lower aircraft fuel cost since the company typically hedges a portion of its future fuel requirements, and uses swaps or sold puts (as a part of a collar) on only a portion of the fuel requirement that it does hedge. the company does not enter into derivative instruments for non-risk management purposes. 71 table of contents the company may adjust its hedging program based on changes in market conditions. the following table summarizes information related to the company cost of aircraft fuel and hedging (in millions, except percentages): ual united continental fuel costs in 2010, fuel cost as a percent of total operating expenses (a) 31 % 31 % 29 % impact of $1 increase in price per barrel of fuel on annual fuel expense (b) $ (99 ) $ (57 ) $ (42 ) fuel hedges asset fair value at december 31, 2010 (c) $ 375 $ 277 $ 98 impact of 10% decrease in forward prices of fuel, crude oil and heating oil on the value of fuel hedges (d) $ (274 ) $ (197 ) $ (77 ) (a) includes related taxes and excludes hedging impacts and special charges. in 2009, ual s, united and continental fuel cost was 26% of total operating expense. (b) based on 2011 projected fuel consumption. (c) as of december 31, 2009, the net fair value of ual s, united and continental fuel hedges was $133 million, $133 million and $14 million, respectively. (d) based on fuel hedge positions at december 31, 2010, as summarized in the table below. as of december 31, 2010, our projected fuel requirements for 2011 were hedged as follows: maximum price minimum price % of expected consumption weighted average price (per gallon) % of expected consumption weighted average price (per gallon) ual (a) heating oil swaps 9 % $ 2.22 9 % $ 2.22 heating oil call options 9 2.23 n/a n/a west texas intermediate ( wti ) crude oil swaps 9 2.02 9 2.02 wti crude oil call options 6 2.24 n/a n/a wti crude oil collars 2 2.29 2 1.57 total 35 % 20 % united heating oil swaps 15 % $ 2.22 15 % $ 2.22 heating oil call options 15 2.23 n/a n/a wti crude oil swaps 5 2.12 5 2.12 wti crude oil call options 2 2.27 n/a n/a total 37 % 20 % continental wti crude oil swaps 14 % $ 1.97 14 % $ 1.97 wti crude oil call options 10 2.24 n/a n/a wti crude oil collars 4 2.29 4 1.57 total 28 % 18 % (a) represents a hedge of approximately 60% of ual expected first quarter consumption with decreasing hedge coverage later throughout 2011. 72 table of contents foreign currency. the company generates revenues and incurs expenses in numerous foreign currencies. changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact the company results of operations through changes in the dollar value of foreign currency-denominated operating revenues and expenses. some of the company more significant foreign currency exposures include the canadian dollar, chinese renminbi, japanese yen, british pound and the european euro. the company does not enter into derivative instruments for non-risk management purposes. at december 31, 2010 and 2009, united did not have any foreign currency hedges. at december 31, 2010, continental had forward contracts outstanding to hedge 24% of its projected japanese yen-denominated cash inflows, primarily from passenger ticket sales, through 2011. at december 31, 2010, the fair value of those hedges was $7 million and is included in other current liabilities in continental consolidated balance sheets. continental estimates that a uniform strengthening of 10% in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the japanese yen at december 31, 2010 would increase the fair value of its yen hedges by $10 million and increase its underlying exposure by $40 million, resulting in a net loss of $30 million. 73 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors. the following risk factors should be read carefully when evaluating the company business and the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other statements the company or its representatives make from time to time. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect the company business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. the merger may present certain material risks to the company business and operations. the merger, described in item 1, business, may present certain risks to the company business and operations including, among other things, risks that: we may be unable to successfully integrate the businesses and workforces of united and continental; conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions relating to the merger that may be imposed on us by regulatory authorities may adversely affect the company business and operations; we may be unable to successfully manage the expanded business with respect to monitoring new operations and associated increased costs and complexity; we may be unable to avoid potential liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the merger and integration; 13 table of contents we may be unable to successfully manage the complex integration of systems, technology, aircraft fleets, networks and other assets of united and continental in a manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, vendors, suppliers, employees and other constituencies; branding or rebranding initiatives may involve substantial costs and may not be favorably received by customers; and we may experience disruption of, or inconsistencies in, each of united and continental standards, controls, procedures, policies and services. accordingly, there can be no assurance that the merger will result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, innovation and operational efficiencies that we currently expect, that these benefits will be achieved within the anticipated timeframe or that we will be able to fully and accurately measure any such synergies. continued periods of historically high fuel costs or significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a material adverse impact on the company operating results, financial position and liquidity. aircraft fuel has been the company single largest operating expense for the last several years. the availability and price of aircraft fuel significantly affects the company operations, results of operations, financial position and liquidity. while the company arranges to have fuel shipped on major pipelines and stored close to its major hub locations to ensure supply continuity in the short term, the company cannot predict the continued future availability of aircraft fuel. at times, due to the highly competitive nature of the airline industry, the company has not been able to increase its fares or other fees sufficiently to offset increased fuel costs. continued volatility in fuel prices may negatively impact the company liquidity in the future. the company may not be able to increase its fares or other fees if fuel prices rise in the future and any such fare or fee increases may not be sustainable in the highly competitive airline industry. in addition, any increases in fares or other fees may not sufficiently offset the fuel price increase and may reduce the demand for air travel. the company enters into hedging arrangements to protect against rising fuel costs. however, the company hedging programs may use significant amounts of cash due to posting of cash collateral in some circumstances, may not be successful in controlling fuel costs and may be limited due to market conditions and other factors. in addition, significant declines in fuel prices may increase the costs associated with the company fuel hedging arrangements to the extent it has entered into swaps or collars. swaps and sold put options (as part of a collar) may obligate us to make payments to the counterparty upon settlement of the contracts if the price of the commodity hedged falls below the agreed upon amount. declining crude and related prices may result in the company posting significant amounts of collateral to cover potential amounts owed (beyond certain credit-based thresholds) with respect to swap and collar contracts that have not yet settled. also, lower fuel prices may result in increased industry capacity and lower fares, especially to the extent that reduced fuel costs justify increased utilization by airlines of less fuel efficient aircraft. there can be no assurance that the company hedging arrangements will provide any particular level of protection against increases or declines in fuel costs or that its counterparties will be able to perform under the company hedging arrangements. additionally, deterioration in the company financial condition could negatively affect its ability to enter into new hedge contracts in the future and may potentially require the company to post increased amounts of collateral under its fuel hedging agreements. see note 13 to the financial statements included in item 8 of this report for additional information on the company hedging programs. economic and industry conditions constantly change and unfavorable global economic conditions may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company business and results of operations are significantly impacted by general economic and industry conditions. the airline industry is highly cyclical, and the level of demand for air travel is correlated to the 14 table of contents strength of the u.s. and global economies. robust demand for our air transportation services depends largely on favorable economic conditions, including the strength of the domestic and foreign economies, low unemployment levels, strong consumer confidence levels and the availability of consumer and business credit. air transportation is often a discretionary purchase that leisure travelers may limit or eliminate during difficult economic times. in addition, during periods of unfavorable economic conditions, business travelers usually reduce the volume of their travel, either due to cost-saving initiatives or as a result of decreased business activity requiring travel. during the global recession in 2008 and 2009, the company business and results of operations were adversely affected due to significant declines in industry passenger demand, particularly with respect to the company business and premium cabin travelers, and a reduction in fare levels. in addition to its effect on demand for the company services, the recession severely disrupted the global capital markets, resulting in a diminished availability of financing and a higher cost for financing that was obtainable. while some economic indicators that may reflect an economic recovery have exhibited growth, other economic indicators, such as unemployment, may not improve materially for an extended period of time. stagnant or worsening global economic conditions either in the united states or in other geographic regions and continued volatility in u.s. and global financial and credit markets may have a material adverse effect on the company revenues, results of operations and liquidity. if such economic conditions were to disrupt capital markets in the future, the company may be unable to obtain financing on acceptable terms (or at all) to refinance certain maturing debt and to satisfy future capital commitments. the company is subject to economic and political instability and other risks of doing business globally. the company is a global business with operations outside of the united states from which it derives approximately one-third of its operating revenues, as measured and reported to the dot. the company operations in asia, europe, latin america, africa and the middle east are a vital part of its worldwide airline network. volatile economic, political and market conditions in these international regions may have a negative impact on the company operating results and its ability to achieve its business objectives. in addition, significant or volatile changes in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and other currencies, and the imposition of exchange controls or other currency restrictions, may have a material adverse impact upon the company liquidity, revenues, costs and operating results. the company may not be able to maintain adequate liquidity. the company has a significant amount of financial leverage from fixed obligations, including aircraft lease and debt financings, leases of airport property and other facilities, and other material cash obligations. in addition, the company has substantial non-cancelable commitments for capital expenditures, including the acquisition of new aircraft and related spare engines. although the company cash flows from operations and its available capital, including the proceeds from financing transactions, have been sufficient to meet these obligations and commitments to date, the company future liquidity could be negatively impacted by the risk factors discussed in this item 1a, including, but not limited to, substantial volatility in the price of fuel, adverse economic conditions, disruptions in the global capital markets and catastrophic external events. if the company liquidity is constrained due to the various risk factors noted in this item 1a or otherwise, the company failure to comply with certain financial covenants under its financing and credit card processing agreements, timely pay its debts, or comply with other material provisions of its contractual obligations could result in a variety of adverse consequences, including the acceleration of the company indebtedness, increase of required reserves under credit card processing agreements, the withholding of credit card sale proceeds by its credit card service providers and the exercise of other remedies by its creditors and equipment lessors that could result in material adverse effects on the company financial position and results of operations. furthermore, 15 table of contents constrained liquidity may limit the company ability to withstand competitive pressures and limit its flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions, including increased competition and demand for new services, placing the company at a disadvantage when compared to its competitors that have less debt, and making the company more vulnerable than its competitors who have less debt to a downturn in the business, industry or the economy in general. the company substantial level of indebtedness and non-investment grade credit rating, as well as market conditions and the availability of assets as collateral for loans or other indebtedness, may make it difficult to raise additional capital to meet its liquidity needs on acceptable terms, or at all. see item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, for further information regarding the company liquidity. certain of the company financing agreements have covenants that impose operating and financial restrictions on the company and its subsidiaries. certain of the company credit facilities and indentures governing its secured notes impose certain operating and financial covenants on the company, on united and its material subsidiaries, or on continental and its subsidiaries. such covenants require the company, united or continental, as applicable, to maintain, depending on the particular agreement, minimum fixed charge coverage ratios, minimum liquidity and/or minimum collateral coverage ratios. a decline in the value of collateral could result in a situation where the company, united or continental, as applicable, may not be able to maintain the required collateral coverage ratio. in addition, the credit facilities and indentures contain other negative covenants customary for such financings. the company ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond its control, including the overall industry revenue environment and the level of fuel costs, and the company may be required to seek waivers or amendments of covenants, repay all or a portion of the debt or find alternative sources of financing. the company cannot provide assurance that such waivers, amendments or alternative financing could be obtained or, if obtained, would be on terms acceptable to the company. if the company fails to comply with these covenants and is unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, an event of default would result which would allow the lenders, among other things, to declare outstanding amounts due and payable. the company cannot provide assurance that it would have sufficient liquidity to repay or refinance such amounts if they were to become due. in addition, an event of default or declaration of acceleration under any of the credit facilities or indentures could also result in an event of default under certain of the company other financing agreements due to cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions. extensive government regulation could increase the company operating costs and restrict its ability to conduct its business. airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal oversight. compliance with u.s. and international regulations imposes significant costs and may have adverse effects on the company. laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges, both domestically and internationally, have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce airline revenue. the company cannot provide any assurance that current laws and regulations, or laws or regulations enacted in the future, will not adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations. each of united and continental provides air transportation under certificates of public convenience and necessity issued by the dot. if the dot altered, amended, modified, suspended or revoked these certificates, it could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the dot is also responsible for promulgating consumer protection and other regulations that may impose significant compliance costs on the company. the faa regulates the safety of united and continental operations. united and continental operate pursuant to a single air carrier operating certificate issued by the faa. from time to time, the faa also issues orders, airworthiness 16 table of contents directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require material expenditures or operational restrictions by the company. these faa orders and directives could include the temporary grounding of an entire aircraft type if the faa identifies design, manufacturing, maintenance or other issues requiring immediate corrective action. faa requirements cover, among other things, retirement of older aircraft, security measures, collision avoidance systems, airborne windshear avoidance systems, noise abatement and other environmental concerns, aircraft operation and safety and increased inspections and maintenance procedures to be conducted on older aircraft. these faa directives or requirements could have a material adverse effect on the company. in addition, the company operations may be adversely impacted due to the existing antiquated air traffic control ( atc ) system utilized by the u.s. government. during peak travel periods in certain markets, the current atc system inability to handle existing travel demand has led to short-term capacity constraints imposed by government agencies and resulted in delays and disruptions of air traffic. in addition, the current system will not be able to effectively handle projected future air traffic growth. imposition of these atc constraints on a long-term basis may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. failure to update the atc system in a timely manner, and the substantial funding requirements of a modernized atc system that may be imposed on air carriers may have an adverse impact on the company financial condition or results of operations. the airline industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local taxes and fees that increase the cost of the company operations. in addition to taxes and fees that the company is currently subject to, proposed taxes and fees are currently pending and if imposed, would increase the company operating expenses. access to landing and take-off rights, or slots, at several major u.s. airports and many foreign airports served by the company are, or recently have been, subject to government regulation. certain of the company major hubs are among increasingly congested airports in the united states and have been or could be the subject of regulatory action that might limit the number of flights and/or increase costs of operations at certain times or throughout the day. the faa may limit the company airport access by limiting the number of departure and arrival slots at high density traffic airports, which could affect the company ownership and transfer rights, and local airport authorities may have the ability to control access to certain facilities or the cost of access to its facilities, which could have an adverse effect on the company business. in addition, in 2008, the faa planned to withdraw and auction a certain number of slots held by airlines at the three primary new york area airports, which the airlines challenged and the faa terminated in 2009. if the faa were to plan another auction that survived legal challenge by the airlines, the company could incur substantial costs to obtain such slots. further, the company operating costs at airports at which it operates, including the company major hubs, may increase significantly because of capital improvements at such airports that the company may be required to fund, directly or indirectly. in some circumstances, such costs could be imposed by the relevant airport authority without the company approval and may have a material adverse effect on the company financial condition. the ability of u.s. carriers to operate international routes is subject to change because the applicable arrangements between the united states and foreign governments may be amended from time to time, or because appropriate slots or facilities may not be made available. the company currently operates on a number of international routes under government arrangements that limit the number of carriers permitted to operate on the route, the capacity of the carriers providing services on the route, or the number of carriers allowed access to particular airports. if an open skies policy were to be adopted for any of these routes, such an event could have a material adverse impact on the company financial position and results of operations and could result in the impairment of material amounts of related tangible and intangible assets. in addition, competition from revenue-sharing joint ventures and other alliance arrangements by and among other airlines could impair the value of the company business and assets on the open skies routes. the company plans to enter into or expand u.s. antitrust immunized alliances and joint ventures on various international routes are subject to receipt of approvals from applicable u.s. federal authorities and obtaining 17 table of contents other applicable foreign government clearances or satisfying the necessary applicable regulatory requirements. there can be no assurance that such approvals and clearances will be granted or continued in effect upon further regulatory review or that changes in regulatory requirements or standards can be satisfied. many aspects of the company operations are also subject to increasingly stringent federal, state, local and international laws protecting the environment. future environmental regulatory developments, such as climate change regulations in the united states and abroad could adversely affect operations and increase operating costs in the airline industry. there are certain climate change laws and regulations that have already gone into effect and that apply to the company, including the european union emissions trading scheme (subject to international dispute), the state of california cap and trade regulations, environmental taxes for certain international flights, limited greenhouse gas reporting requirements and land-use planning laws which could apply to airports and could affect airlines in certain circumstances. in addition, there is the potential for additional regulatory actions in regard to the emission of greenhouse gases by the aviation industry. the precise nature of future requirements and their applicability to the company are difficult to predict, but the financial impact to the company and the aviation industry would likely be adverse and could be significant. see item 1, business industry regulation , above, for further information on government regulation impacting the company. the company relies heavily on technology and automated systems to operate its business and any significant failure or disruption of the technology or these systems could materially harm its business. the company depends on automated systems and technology to operate its business, including computerized airline reservation systems, flight operations systems, telecommunication systems and commercial websites, including www.united.com and www.continental.com. united and continental websites and other automated systems must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver important flight and schedule information, as well as process critical financial transactions. these systems could suffer substantial or repeated disruptions due to events beyond the company control, including natural disasters, power failures, terrorist attacks, equipment or software failures, computer viruses or cyber security attacks. substantial or repeated website, reservations systems or telecommunication systems failures or disruptions, including failures or disruptions related to the company integration of technology systems, could reduce the attractiveness of the company services versus its competitors, materially impair its ability to market its services and operate its flights, result in the unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, and result in increased costs, lost revenue and the loss or compromise of important data. the company business relies extensively on third-party service providers. failure of these parties to perform as expected, or interruptions in the company relationships with these providers or their provision of services to the company, could have an adverse effect on the company financial position and results of operations. the company has engaged an increasing number of third-party service providers to perform a large number of functions that are integral to its business, including regional operations, operation of customer service call centers, distribution and sale of airline seat inventory, provision of information technology infrastructure and services, provision of aircraft maintenance and repairs, provision of various utilities and performance of aircraft fueling operations, among other vital functions and services. the company does not directly control these third-party service providers, although it does enter into agreements with many of them that define expected service performance. any of these third-party service providers, however, may materially fail to meet their service performance commitments to the company or agreements with such providers may be terminated. for example, flight reservations booked by customers and travel agencies via third-party gdss may be adversely affected by disruptions in the business relationships between the company and gds operators. such disruptions, including a failure to agree upon acceptable contract terms when contracts expire or otherwise become subject to renegotiation, may cause the carriers flight information to be limited or unavailable for display, significantly increase fees for both the company and gds users, and impair the company relationships with its customers 18 table of contents and travel agencies. the failure of any of the company third-party service providers to adequately perform their service obligations, or other interruptions of services, may reduce the company revenues and increase its expenses or prevent the company from operating its flights and providing other services to its customers. in addition, the company business and financial performance could be materially harmed if its customers believe that its services are unreliable or unsatisfactory. ual obligations for funding continental defined benefit pension plans are affected by factors beyond ual control. continental has defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all of its u.s. employees, other than the employees of its chelsea food services division and continental micronesia, inc. the timing and amount of ual funding requirements under continental plans depend upon a number of factors, including labor negotiations with the applicable employee groups and changes to pension plan benefits as well as factors outside of ual control, such as the number of applicable retiring employees, asset returns, interest rates and changes in pension laws. changes to these and other factors that can significantly increase ual funding requirements, such as its liquidity requirements, could have a material adverse effect on ual financial condition. union disputes, employee strikes or slowdowns, and other labor-related disruptions, as well as the integration of the united and continental workforces in connection with the merger, present the potential for a delay in achieving expected merger synergies, or increased labor costs that could adversely affect the company operations and impair its financial performance. united and continental are both highly unionized companies. as of december 31, 2011, the company and its subsidiaries had approximately 87,000 active employees, of whom approximately 72% were represented by various u.s. labor organizations. the successful integration of united and continental and achievement of the anticipated benefits of the combined company depend in part on integrating united and continental employee groups and maintaining productive employee relations. in order to fully integrate the pre-merger represented employee groups, the company must negotiate a joint collective bargaining agreement covering each combined group. the process for integrating the labor groups of united and continental is governed by a combination of the rla, the mccaskill-bond amendment, and where applicable, the existing provisions of each company collective bargaining agreements and union policy. a delay in or failure to integrate the united and continental employee groups presents the potential for delays in achieving expected merger synergies, increased labor costs and labor disputes that could adversely affect our operations. the company can provide no assurance that a successful or timely resolution of labor negotiations for all amendable collective bargaining agreements will be achieved. there is a risk that unions or individual employees might pursue judicial or arbitral claims arising out of changes implemented as a result of the merger. employee dissatisfaction with the results of the seniority integration may lead to litigation that in some cases can delay implementation of the integrated seniority list. there is also a possibility that employees or unions could engage in job actions such as slow-downs, work-to-rule campaigns, sick-outs or other actions designed to disrupt united and continental normal operations, in an attempt to pressure the companies in collective bargaining negotiations. although the rla makes such actions unlawful until the parties have been lawfully released to self-help, and united and continental can seek injunctive relief against premature self-help, such actions can cause significant harm even if ultimately enjoined. the airline industry is highly competitive and susceptible to price discounting and changes in capacity, which could have a material adverse effect on the company. the u.s. airline industry is characterized by substantial price competition. in recent years, the market share held by low-cost carriers has increased significantly and is expected to continue to increase. the increased market 19 table of contents presence of low-cost carriers, which engage in substantial price discounting, has diminished the ability of large network carriers to achieve sustained profitability in domestic markets. airlines also compete for market share by increasing or decreasing their capacity, including route systems and the number of markets served. several of the company domestic competitors have increased their international capacity by including service to some destinations that the company currently serves, causing overlap in destinations served and therefore increasing competition for those destinations. in addition, the company and certain of its competitors have implemented significant capacity reductions in recent years in response to the global recession. further, certain of the company competitors may not reduce capacity or may increase capacity, thereby diminishing the expected benefit to the company from capacity reductions. this increased competition in both domestic and international markets may have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. the airline industry may undergo further bankruptcy restructuring, industry consolidation, or the creation or modification of alliances or joint ventures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the company. the company faces and may to continue to face strong competition from other carriers due to bankruptcy restructuring, industry consolidation, and the creation and modification of alliances and joint ventures. a number of carriers have filed for bankruptcy protection in recent years and other domestic and international carriers could restructure in bankruptcy or threaten to do so in the future to reduce their costs. most recently, amr corporation, the parent company of american airlines, filed for chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in november 2011. carriers operating under bankruptcy protection can operate in a manner that could be adverse to the company and could emerge from bankruptcy as more vigorous competitors. both the u.s. and international airline industries have experienced consolidation through a number of mergers and acquisitions. the company is also facing stronger competition from expanded airline alliances and joint ventures. carriers entering into and participating in airline alliances, slot swaps and/or joint ventures may also become strong competitors as they are able to coordinate routes, pool revenues and costs, and enjoy other mutual benefits, achieving many of the benefits of consolidation. open skies agreements, including the agreements between the united states and the eu and between the united states and japan, may also give rise to additional consolidation or better integration opportunities among international carriers. there is ongoing speculation that further airline industry consolidations or reorganizations could occur in the future. the company routinely engages in analysis and discussions regarding its own strategic position, including alliances, asset acquisitions and divestitures and may have future discussions with other airlines regarding strategic activities. if other airlines participate in such activities, those airlines may significantly improve their cost structures or revenue generation capabilities, thereby potentially making them stronger competitors of the company and potentially impairing the company ability to realize expected benefits from its own strategic relationships. increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage may materially and adversely impact the company results of operations and financial condition. following the terrorist attacks on september 11, 2001, the company insurance costs increased significantly and the availability of third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance decreased significantly. the company has obtained third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance through a special program administered by the faa. should the government discontinue this coverage, obtaining comparable coverage from commercial underwriters could result in substantially higher premiums and more restrictive terms, if such coverage is available at all. if the company is unable to obtain adequate third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance, its business could be materially and adversely affected. if any of the company aircraft were to be involved in an accident or if the company property or operations were to be affected by a significant natural catastrophe or other event, the company could be exposed to 20 table of contents significant liability or loss. if the company is unable to obtain sufficient insurance (including aviation hull and liability insurance and property and business interruption coverage) to cover such liabilities or losses, whether due to insurance market conditions or otherwise, its results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. the company could experience adverse publicity, harm to its brand, reduced travel demand and potential tort liability as a result of an accident or other catastrophe involving its aircraft, the aircraft of its regional carriers or the aircraft of its codeshare partners, which may result in a material adverse effect on the company results of operations or financial position. an accident or catastrophe involving an aircraft that the company operates, or an aircraft that is operated by a codeshare partner or one of the company regional carriers, could have a material adverse effect on the company if such accident created a public perception that the company operations, or the operations of its codeshare partners or regional carriers, are less safe or reliable than other airlines. such public perception could in turn cause harm to the company brand and reduce travel demand on the company flights, or the flights of its codeshare partners or regional carriers. in addition, any such accident could expose the company to significant tort liability. although the company currently maintains liability insurance in amounts and of the type the company believes to be consistent with industry practice to cover damages arising from any such accident, and the company codeshare partners and regional carriers carry similar insurance and generally indemnify the company for their operations, if the company liability exceeds the applicable policy limits or the ability of another carrier to indemnify it, the company could incur substantial losses from an accident which may result in a material adverse effect on the company results of operations or financial position. the company results of operations fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors associated with the airline industry. due to greater demand for air travel during the spring and summer months, revenues in the airline industry in the second and third quarters of the year are generally stronger than revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year, which are periods of lower travel demand. the company results of operations generally reflect this seasonality, but have also been impacted by numerous other factors that are not necessarily seasonal including, among others, the imposition of excise and similar taxes, extreme or severe weather, air traffic control congestion, geological events, natural disasters, changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation and other factors and general economic conditions. as a result, the company quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year and historical operating results in a quarterly or annual period are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. terrorist attacks or international hostilities, or the fear of terrorist attacks or hostilities, even if not made directly on the airline industry, could negatively affect the company and the airline industry. the terrorist attacks on september 11, 2001 involving commercial aircraft severely and adversely impacted each of united and continental financial condition and results of operations, as well as the prospects for the airline industry. among the effects experienced from the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks were substantial flight disruption costs caused by the faa-imposed temporary grounding of the u.s. airline industry fleet, significantly increased security costs and associated passenger inconvenience, increased insurance costs, substantially higher ticket refunds and significantly decreased traffic and passenger revenue. additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of or the precautions taken in anticipation of such attacks (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights) could materially and adversely affect the company and the airline industry. wars and other international hostilities could also have a material adverse impact on the company financial condition, liquidity 21 table of contents and results of operations. the company financial resources may not be sufficient to absorb the adverse effects of any future terrorist attacks or other international hostilities. an outbreak of a disease or similar public health threat could have a material adverse impact on the company business, financial position and results of operations. an outbreak of a disease that affects travel demand or travel behavior, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome, avian flu or h1n1 virus, or other illness, or travel restrictions or reduction in the demand for air travel caused by similar public health threats in the future, could have a material adverse impact on the company business, financial condition and results of operations. the company may never realize the full value of its intangible assets or its long-lived assets causing it to record impairments that may negatively affect its financial position and results of operations. in accordance with applicable accounting standards, the company is required to test its indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis on october 1 of each year, or more frequently if conditions indicate that an impairment may have occurred. in addition, the company is required to test certain of its other assets for impairment if conditions indicate that an impairment may have occurred. during the years ended december 31, 2010 and 2009, the company performed impairment tests of certain intangible assets and certain long-lived assets (principally aircraft, related spare engines and spare parts). the interim impairment tests were due to events and changes in circumstances that indicated an impairment might have occurred. certain of the factors deemed by management to have indicated that impairments may have occurred include a significant decrease in actual and forecasted revenues, record high fuel prices, significant losses, a weak u.s. economy, and changes in the planned use of assets. as a result of the impairment testing, the company recorded significant impairment charges as described in note 21 to the financial statements included in item 8 of this report. the company may be required to recognize additional impairments in the future due to, among other factors, extreme fuel price volatility, tight credit markets, a decline in the fair value of certain tangible or intangible assets, unfavorable trends in historical or forecasted results of operations and cash flows and an uncertain economic environment, as well as other uncertainties. the company can provide no assurance that a material impairment charge of tangible or intangible assets will not occur in a future period. the value of our aircraft could be impacted in future periods by changes in supply and demand for these aircraft. such changes in supply and demand for certain aircraft types could result from grounding of aircraft by the company or other carriers. an impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on the company financial position and results of operations. the company ability to use its net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for u.s. federal income tax purposes may be significantly limited due to various circumstances, including certain possible future transactions involving the sale or issuance of ual common stock, or if taxable income does not reach sufficient levels. as of december 31, 2011, ual reported consolidated federal net operating loss ( nol ) carryforwards of approximately $10.0 billion. the company ability to use its nol carryforwards may be limited if it experiences an ownership change as defined in section 382 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended ( section 382 ). an ownership change generally occurs if certain stockholders increase their aggregate percentage ownership of a corporation stock by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest percentage ownership at any time during the testing period, which is generally the three-year period preceding any potential ownership change. there is no assurance that the company will not experience a future ownership change under section 382 that may significantly limit or possibly eliminate its ability to use its nol carryforwards. potential future transactions 22 table of contents involving the sale or issuance of ual common stock, including the exercise of conversion options under the terms of the company convertible debt, repurchase of such debt with ual common stock, issuance of ual common stock for cash and the acquisition or disposition of such stock by a stockholder owning 5% or more of ual common stock, or a combination of such transactions, may increase the possibility that the company will experience a future ownership change under section 382. under section 382, a future ownership change would subject the company to additional annual limitations that apply to the amount of pre-ownership change nols that may be used to offset post-ownership change taxable income. this limitation is generally determined by multiplying the value of a corporation stock immediately before the ownership change by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate. any unused annual limitation may, subject to certain limits, be carried over to later years, and the limitation may under certain circumstances be increased by built-in gains in the assets held by such corporation at the time of the ownership change. this limitation could cause the company u.s. federal income taxes to be greater, or to be paid earlier, than they otherwise would be, and could cause all or a portion of the company nol carryforwards to expire unused. similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes. the company ability to use its nol carryforwards will also depend on the amount of taxable income it generates in future periods. its nol carryforwards may expire before the company can generate sufficient taxable income to use them in full. ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation limits certain transfers of its stock which could have an effect on the market price of ual common stock. to reduce the risk of a potential adverse effect on the company ability to use its nol carryforwards for federal income tax purposes, ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains a 5% ownership limitation. this limitation generally remains effective until february 1, 2014, or until such later date as may be approved by the ual board of directors (the board of directors ) in its sole discretion. the limitation prohibits (i) an acquisition by a single stockholder of shares that results in that stockholder owning 5% or more of ual common stock and (ii) any acquisition or disposition of common stock by a stockholder that already owns 5% or more of ual common stock, unless prior written approval is granted by the board of directors. any transfer of common stock in violation of these restrictions will be void and will be treated as if such transfer never occurred. this provision of ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation may impair or prevent a sale of common stock by a stockholder and adversely affect the price at which a stockholder can sell ual common stock. in addition, this limitation may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the company, creating a perception that a change in control cannot occur or otherwise discouraging takeover attempts that some stockholders may consider beneficial, which could also adversely affect the market price of the ual common stock. the company cannot predict the effect that this provision in ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation may have on the market price of the ual common stock. for additional information regarding the 5% ownership limitation, please refer to ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation available on the company website. certain provisions of ual governance documents could discourage or delay changes of control or changes to the board of directors. certain provisions of ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws (together, the governance documents ) may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the board of directors and may discourage takeover attempts that some of its stockholders may consider beneficial. certain provisions of the governance documents may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if the board of directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of ual and its stockholders. these provisions of the governance documents are not intended to prevent a takeover, but are intended to protect and maximize the value of ual stockholders interests. while these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of ual to negotiate with the board of directors, they 23 table of contents could enable the board of directors to prevent a transaction that some, or a majority, of its stockholders might believe to be in their best interests or, they could prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. the issuance of additional shares of ual capital stock, including the issuance of common stock upon conversion of convertible notes and upon a noteholder exercise of its option to require ual to repurchase convertible notes, could cause dilution to the interests of its existing stockholders. ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes up to one billion shares of common stock. in certain circumstances, ual can issue shares of common stock without stockholder approval. in addition, the board of directors is authorized to issue up to 250 million shares of preferred stock, without par value, without any action on the part of ual stockholders. the board of directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any series of shares of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, conversion rights, dividend rights, preferences over ual common stock with respect to dividends or if ual liquidates, dissolves or winds up its business and other terms. if ual issues preferred stock in the future that has a preference over its common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon its liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if ual issues preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of its common stock, the rights of holders of its common stock or the market price of its common stock could be adversely affected. the company is also authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, other securities convertible into either preferred stock or, in certain circumstances, common stock. as of december 31, 2011, ual had $1 billion of convertible debt outstanding. holders of these securities may convert them into shares of ual common stock according to their terms. in addition, certain of ual notes include noteholder early redemption options. if a noteholder exercises such option, ual may elect to pay the repurchase price in cash, shares of its common stock or a combination thereof. see note 14 to the financial statements included in item 8 of this report for additional information related to these convertible notes. the number of shares issued could be significant and such an issuance could cause significant dilution to the interests of its existing stockholders. in addition, if ual elects to pay the repurchase price in cash, its liquidity could be adversely affected. in the future, ual may decide to raise additional capital through offerings of ual common stock, securities convertible into ual common stock, or exercise rights to acquire these securities or its common stock. the issuance of additional shares of common stock, including upon the conversion or repurchase of convertible debt, could result in significant dilution of existing stockholders equity interests in ual. issuances of substantial amounts of its common stock, or the perception that such issuances could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for ual common stock and ual cannot predict the effect this dilution may have on the price of its common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 64 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rates. our net income (loss) is affected by fluctuations in interest rates (e.g. interest expense on variable-rate debt and interest income earned on short-term investments). the company policy is to manage interest rate risk through a combination of fixed and variable rate debt and by entering into swap agreements, depending upon market conditions. the following table summarizes information related to the company interest rate market risk at december 31 (in millions): 2011 2010 ual united continental ual united continental variable rate debt carrying value of variable rate debt at december 31 $ 3,280 $ 2,109 $ 1,171 $ 3,758 $ 2,400 $ 1,358 impact of 100 basis point increase on projected interest expense for the following year 31 20 11 37 24 13 fixed rate debt carrying value of fixed rate debt at december 31 8,402 3,636 4,357 10,087 4,626 5,043 fair value of fixed rate debt at december 31 8,996 3,717 4,420 11,292 5,026 5,284 impact of 100 basis point increase in market rates on fair value (272 ) (110 ) (159 ) (369 ) (159 ) (206 ) a change in market interest rates would also impact interest income earned on our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. assuming our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments remain at their average 2011 levels, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in a corresponding increase in ual, united and continental interest income of approximately $63 million, $37 million and $26 million, respectively, during 2012. commodity price risk (aircraft fuel). our results of operations and liquidity are significantly impacted by changes in the price of aircraft fuel. 64 table of contents to protect against increases in the prices of aircraft fuel, the company routinely hedges a portion of its future fuel requirements. the company uses fixed price swaps, purchased call options, collars or other such commonly used financial hedge instruments. these hedge instruments are based directly on aircraft fuel or closely related commodities like heating oil, diesel fuel and crude oil. the company strives to maintain fuel hedging levels and exposure such that the company fuel cost is not disproportionate to the fuel costs of its major competitors. some hedge instruments may result in losses if the underlying commodity prices drop below specified floors or swap prices. however, the negative impact of these losses may be outweighed by the benefit of lower aircraft fuel cost since the company typically hedges a portion of its future fuel requirements, and uses swaps or sold puts (as a part of a collar) on only a portion of the fuel requirement that it does hedge. the company does not enter into hedge instruments for trading purposes. the company may adjust its hedging program based on changes in market conditions. the following table summarizes information related to the company cost of fuel and hedging (in millions, except percentages): ual united continental fuel costs in 2011, fuel cost as a percent of total operating expenses (a) 37 % 37 % 36 % impact of $1 increase in price per barrel of aircraft fuel on annual fuel expense (b) $ 95 $ 54 $ 41 fuel hedges asset fair value at december 31, 2011 (c) $ 73 $ 44 $ 29 impact of 10% decrease in forward prices of aircraft fuel, crude oil and heating oil on the value of fuel hedges (d) $ (155 ) $ (97 ) $ (58 ) (a) includes related taxes and excludes hedging impacts and special charges. in 2010, ual s, united and continental fuel cost was 31%, 31%, and 29% of total operating expense, respectively. (b) based on 2012 projected fuel consumption. (c) as of december 31, 2010, the net fair value of ual s, united and continental fuel hedges was $375 million, $277 million and $98 million, respectively. (d) based on fuel hedge positions at december 31, 2011, as summarized in the table below. as of december 31, 2011, our projected fuel requirements for 2012 were hedged as follows: maximum price minimum price % of expected consumption weighted average price (per gallon) % of expected consumption weighted average price (per gallon) ual (a) heating oil collars 11 % $ 3.13 11 % $ 2.52 heating oil call options 7 3.22 n/a n/a brent crude oil collars 6 2.74 6 1.91 diesel fuel collars 4 3.12 4 2.35 aircraft fuel swaps 1 2.90 1 2.90 wti crude oil call options 1 2.37 n/a n/a wti crude oil swaps 1 2.25 1 2.25 total 31 % 23 % (a) represents a hedge of approximately 47% of ual expected first quarter consumption with decreasing hedge coverage later throughout 2012. foreign currency. the company generates revenues and incurs expenses in numerous foreign currencies. changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact the company results of operations through changes in the dollar value of foreign currency-denominated operating revenues and expenses. some of the company more significant foreign currency exposures include the canadian dollar, chinese renminbi, european euro and 65 table of contents japanese yen. at times, the company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign currency. the company does not enter into derivative instruments for non-risk management purposes. the result of a uniform 10 percent strengthening in the value of the u.s. dollar from december 31, 2011 levels relative to each of the currencies in which the company has foreign currency exposure would result in a decrease in pre-tax income of approximately $235 million for the year ending december 31, 2012. this sensitivity analysis was prepared based upon projected 2012 foreign currency-denominated revenues and expenses as of december 31, 2011. 66 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors. the following risk factors should be read carefully when evaluating the company business and the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other statements the company or its representatives make from time to time. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect the company business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. the merger may present certain material risks to the company business and operations. the merger, described in item 1, business, may present certain risks to the company business and operations including, among other things, risks that: we may be unable to successfully integrate the businesses and workforces of united and continental; we may be unable to successfully manage the expanded business with respect to monitoring new operations and associated increased costs and complexity; we may be unable to avoid potential liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the merger and integration, including in connection with any legal merger of united air lines, inc. and continental airlines, inc. into a single corporation; we may be unable to successfully manage the complex integration of systems, technology, aircraft fleets, networks and other assets of united and continental in a manner that minimizes any adverse impact on the company and the company customers, vendors, suppliers, employees and other constituencies; and we may experience disruption of, or inconsistencies in, each of united and continental standards, controls, reports on operations, procedures, policies and services. accordingly, there can be no assurance that the merger will result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, innovation and operational efficiencies that we currently expect, that these benefits will be achieved within the anticipated timeframe or that we will be able to fully and accurately measure any such synergies. continued periods of historically high fuel prices or significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a material adverse impact on the company operating results, financial position and liquidity. aircraft fuel has been the company single largest and most volatile operating expense for the last several years. the availability and price of aircraft fuel significantly affect the company operations, results of operations, financial position and liquidity. while the company has been able to obtain adequate supplies of fuel under various supply contracts and also stores fuel close to major hub locations to ensure supply continuity in the short term, the company cannot predict the continued future availability or price of aircraft fuel. continued volatility in fuel prices may negatively impact the company liquidity in the future. aircraft fuel prices can fluctuate based on a multitude of factors including market expectations of supply and demand balance, inventory levels, geopolitical events, economic growth expectations, fiscal/monetary policies and financial investment flows. the company may not be able to increase its fares or other fees if fuel prices rise in the future and any such fare or fee increases may not be sustainable in the highly competitive airline industry. in addition, any increases in fares or other fees may not sufficiently offset the full impact of such rises in fuel prices and may also reduce the general demand for air travel. to protect against increases in the prices of aircraft fuel, the company routinely hedges a portion of its future fuel requirements. however, the company hedging program may not be successful in controlling fuel costs, and price protection provided may be limited due to market conditions and other factors. to the extent that the company uses hedge contracts that have the potential to create an obligation to pay upon settlement if prices decline significantly, including swaps or sold put options as 13 table of contents part of a collar, such hedge contracts may limit the company ability to benefit from lower fuel costs in the future. if fuel prices decline significantly from the levels existing at the time we enter into a hedge contract, we may be required to post collateral (margin) with our hedge counterparties beyond certain thresholds. also, lower fuel prices may result in increased industry capacity and lower fares in general. there can be no assurance that the company hedging arrangements will provide any particular level of protection against rises in fuel prices or that its counterparties will be able to perform under the company hedging arrangements. additionally, deterioration in the company financial condition could negatively affect its ability to enter into new hedge contracts in the future and may potentially require the company to post increased amounts of collateral under its fuel hedging agreements. in addition, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 (the dodd-frank act ) and regulations promulgated by the commodity futures trading commission ( cftc ) introduce new requirements for centralized clearing for over-the-counter derivatives. this may include the company fuel hedge contracts. the ual board of directors has approved the company election of the cftc end-user exception, which permits the company as a non-financial end user of derivatives to hedge commercial risk and be exempt from the cftc mandatory clearing requirements. however, depending on the final regulations adopted by the cftc and other regulators, several of the company hedge counterparties may be subject to requirements which may raise their costs. those increased costs may in turn be passed to the company, resulting in increased transaction costs to execute hedge contracts and lower credit thresholds to post collateral (margin). see note 13 to the financial statements included in item 8 of this report for additional information on the company hedging programs. economic and industry conditions constantly change and unfavorable global economic conditions may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company business and results of operations are significantly impacted by general economic and industry conditions. the airline industry is highly cyclical, and the level of demand for air travel is correlated to the strength of the u.s. and global economies. robust demand for our air transportation services depends largely on favorable economic conditions, including the strength of the domestic and foreign economies, low unemployment levels, strong consumer confidence levels and the availability of consumer and business credit. air transportation is often a discretionary purchase that leisure travelers may limit or eliminate during difficult economic times. in addition, during periods of unfavorable economic conditions, business travelers usually reduce the volume of their travel, either due to cost-saving initiatives or as a result of decreased business activity requiring travel. during such periods, the company business and results of operations may be adversely affected due to significant declines in industry passenger demand, particularly with respect to the company business and premium cabin travelers, and a reduction in fare levels. stagnant or worsening global economic conditions either in the united states or in other geographic regions, and any future volatility in u.s. and global financial and credit markets may have a material adverse effect on the company revenues, results of operations and liquidity. if such economic conditions were to disrupt capital markets in the future, the company may be unable to obtain financing on acceptable terms (or at all) to refinance certain maturing debt and to satisfy future capital commitments. the company is subject to economic and political instability and other risks of doing business globally. the company is a global business with operations outside of the united states from which it derives approximately 40% of its operating revenues, as measured and reported to the dot. the company operations in asia, europe, latin america, africa and the middle east are a vital part of its worldwide airline network. volatile economic, political and market conditions in these international regions may have a negative impact on the company operating results and its ability to achieve its business objectives. in addition, significant or volatile changes in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and other currencies, and the imposition of exchange controls or other currency restrictions, may have a material adverse impact upon the company liquidity, revenues, costs and operating results. 14 table of contents the company may not be able to maintain adequate liquidity. the company has a significant amount of financial leverage from fixed obligations, including aircraft lease and debt financings, leases of airport property and other facilities, and other material cash obligations. in addition, the company has substantial non-cancelable commitments for capital expenditures, including the acquisition of new aircraft and related spare engines. although the company cash flows from operations and its available capital, including the proceeds from financing transactions, have been sufficient to meet these obligations and commitments to date, the company future liquidity could be negatively impacted by the risk factors discussed in this item 1a, including, but not limited to, substantial volatility in the price of fuel, adverse economic conditions, disruptions in the global capital markets and catastrophic external events. if the company liquidity is constrained due to the various risk factors noted in this item 1a or otherwise, the company failure to comply with certain financial covenants under its financing and credit card processing agreements, timely pay its debts, or comply with other material provisions of its contractual obligations could result in a variety of adverse consequences, including the acceleration of the company indebtedness, increase of required reserves under credit card processing agreements, the withholding of credit card sale proceeds by its credit card service providers and the exercise of other remedies by its creditors and equipment lessors that could result in a material adverse effect on the company financial position and results of operations. furthermore, constrained liquidity may limit the company ability to withstand competitive pressures and limit its flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions, including increased competition and demand for new services, placing the company at a disadvantage when compared to its competitors that have less debt, and making the company more vulnerable than its competitors who have less debt to a downturn in the business, industry or the economy in general. the company substantial level of indebtedness and non-investment grade credit rating, as well as market conditions and the availability of assets as collateral for loans or other indebtedness, may make it difficult for the company to raise additional capital to meet its liquidity needs on acceptable terms, or at all. see item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, for further information regarding the company liquidity. certain of the company financing agreements have covenants that impose operating and financial restrictions on the company and its subsidiaries. certain of the company credit facilities and indentures governing its secured notes impose certain operating and financial covenants on the company, on united and its subsidiaries, or on continental and its subsidiaries. such covenants require the company, united or continental, as applicable, to maintain, depending on the particular agreement, minimum fixed charge coverage ratios, minimum liquidity and/or minimum collateral coverage ratios. a decline in the value of collateral could result in a situation where the company, united or continental, as applicable, may not be able to maintain the required collateral coverage ratio. in addition, the credit facilities and indentures contain other negative covenants customary for such financings. the company ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond its control, including the overall industry revenue environment and the level of fuel costs, and the company may be required to seek waivers or amendments of covenants, repay all or a portion of the debt or find alternative sources of financing. the company cannot provide assurance that such waivers, amendments or alternative financing could be obtained or, if obtained, would be on terms acceptable to the company. if the company fails to comply with these covenants and is unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, an event of default would result which would allow the lenders, among other things, to declare outstanding amounts due and payable. the company cannot provide assurance that it would have sufficient liquidity to repay or refinance such amounts if they were to become due. in addition, an event of default or declaration of acceleration under any of the credit facilities or indentures could also result in an event of default under certain of the company other financing agreements due to cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions. 15 table of contents extensive government regulation could increase the company operating costs and restrict its ability to conduct its business. airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal oversight. compliance with u.s. and international regulations imposes significant costs and may have adverse effects on the company. laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges, both domestically and internationally, have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce airline revenue. the company cannot provide any assurance that current laws and regulations, or laws or regulations enacted in the future, will not adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations. each of united and continental provides air transportation under certificates of public convenience and necessity issued by the dot. if the dot altered, amended, modified, suspended or revoked these certificates, it could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the dot is also responsible for promulgating consumer protection and other regulations that may impose significant compliance costs on the company. the faa regulates the safety of united and continental operations. united and continental are operators pursuant to a single air carrier operating certificate issued by the faa. from time to time, the faa also issues orders, airworthiness directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require material expenditures or operational restrictions by the company. these faa orders and directives could include the temporary grounding of an entire aircraft type if the faa identifies design, manufacturing, maintenance or other issues requiring immediate corrective action. for example, on january 11, 2013, the faa announced a review of the boeing 787 aircraft critical systems and in-service issues and, on january 16, 2013, the faa issued an emergency airworthiness directive that requires u.s. boeing 787 operators, including the company, to temporarily cease operations of such aircraft. if the directive were to continue for an extended period of time, it could adversely affect the company business and results of operations. faa requirements cover, among other things, retirement of older aircraft, security measures, collision avoidance systems, airborne windshear avoidance systems, noise abatement and other environmental concerns, aircraft operation and safety and increased inspections and maintenance procedures to be conducted on older aircraft. these faa directives or requirements could have a material adverse effect on the company. in addition, the company operations may be adversely impacted due to the existing antiquated air traffic control ( atc ) system utilized by the u.s. government. during peak travel periods in certain markets, the current atc system inability to handle existing travel demand has led to short-term capacity constraints imposed by government agencies and resulted in delays and disruptions of air traffic. in addition, the current system will not be able to effectively handle projected future air traffic growth. imposition of these atc constraints on a long-term basis may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. failure to update the atc system in a timely manner, and the substantial funding requirements of a modernized atc system that may be imposed on air carriers may have an adverse impact on the company financial condition or results of operations. the airline industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local taxes and fees that increase the cost of the company operations. in addition to taxes and fees that the company is currently subject to, proposed taxes and fees are currently pending and if imposed, would increase the company operating expenses. access to landing and take-off rights, or slots, at several major u.s. airports and many foreign airports served by the company are, or recently have been, subject to government regulation. certain of the company major hubs are among increasingly congested airports in the united states and have been or could be the subject of regulatory action that might limit the number of flights and/or increase costs of operations at certain times or throughout the day. the faa may limit the company airport access by limiting the number of departure and arrival slots at high density traffic airports, which could affect the company ownership and transfer rights, and local airport authorities may have the ability to control access to certain facilities or the cost of access to its facilities, which could have an adverse effect on the company business. the faa historically has taken actions with respect to airlines slot holdings that airlines have challenged; if the faa were to take actions to adversely affect the company slot holdings, the company could incur substantial costs to preserve its slots. further, the company operating costs at airports at which it operates, including the company major hubs, may increase 16 table of contents significantly because of capital improvements at such airports that the company may be required to fund, directly or indirectly. in some circumstances, such costs could be imposed by the relevant airport authority without the company approval and may have a material adverse effect on the company financial condition. the ability of carriers to operate flights on international routes between airports in the u.s. and other countries may be subject to change. applicable arrangements between the united states and foreign governments may be amended from time to time, government policies with respect to airport operations may be revised, and the availability of appropriate slots or facilities may change. the company currently operates a number of flights on international routes under government arrangements, regulations or policies that designate the number of carriers permitted to operate on such routes, the capacity of the carriers providing services on such routes, the airports at which carriers may operate international flights, or the number of carriers allowed access to particular airports. any further limitations, additions or modifications to such arrangements, regulations or policies could have a material adverse effect on the company financial position and results of operations. additionally, if an open skies policy were to be adopted for any of the company international routes, such an event could have a material adverse impact on the company financial position and results of operations and could result in the impairment of material amounts of related tangible and intangible assets. in addition, competition from revenue-sharing joint ventures and other alliance arrangements by and among other airlines could impair the value of the company business and assets on the open skies routes. the company plans to enter into or expand u.s. antitrust immunized alliances and joint ventures on various international routes are subject to receipt of approvals from applicable u.s. federal authorities and obtaining other applicable foreign government clearances or satisfying the necessary applicable regulatory requirements. there can be no assurance that such approvals and clearances will be granted or will continue in effect upon further regulatory review or that changes in regulatory requirements or standards can be satisfied. many aspects of the company operations are also subject to increasingly stringent federal, state, local and international laws protecting the environment. future environmental regulatory developments, such as climate change regulations in the united states and abroad could adversely affect operations and increase operating costs in the airline industry. there are certain climate change laws and regulations that have already gone into effect and that apply to the company, including the eu ets (which is subject to international dispute), the state of california cap and trade regulations, environmental taxes for certain international flights, limited greenhouse gas reporting requirements and land-use planning laws which could apply to airports and could affect airlines in certain circumstances. in addition, there is the potential for additional regulatory actions in regard to the emission of greenhouse gases by the aviation industry. the precise nature of future requirements and their applicability to the company are difficult to predict, but the financial impact to the company and the aviation industry would likely be adverse and could be significant. see item 1, business - industry regulation above, for further information on government regulation impacting the company. the company relies heavily on technology and automated systems to operate its business and any significant failure or disruption of the technology or these systems could materially harm its business. the company depends on automated systems and technology to operate its business, including computerized airline reservation systems, flight operations systems, telecommunication systems and commercial websites, including www.united.com. united website and other automated systems must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver important flight and schedule information, as well as process critical financial transactions. these systems could suffer substantial or repeated disruptions due to events including natural disasters, power failures, terrorist attacks, equipment or software failures, computer viruses or cyber security attacks. substantial or repeated website, reservation systems or telecommunication systems failures or disruptions, including failures or disruptions related to the company integration of technology systems, could reduce the attractiveness of the company services versus those of its competitors, materially impair its ability to market its services and operate its flights, result in the unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, and result in increased costs, lost revenue and the loss or compromise of important data. 17 table of contents the company business relies extensively on third-party service providers. failure of these parties to perform as expected, or interruptions in the company relationships with these providers or their provision of services to the company, could have an adverse effect on the company financial position and results of operations. the company has engaged an increasing number of third-party service providers to perform a large number of functions that are integral to its business, including regional operations, operation of customer service call centers, distribution and sale of airline seat inventory, provision of information technology infrastructure and services, provision of aircraft maintenance and repairs, provision of various utilities and performance of aircraft fueling operations, among other vital functions and services. the company does not directly control these third-party service providers, although it does enter into agreements with many of them that define expected service performance. any of these third-party service providers, however, may materially fail to meet their service performance commitments to the company or agreements with such providers may be terminated. for example, flight reservations booked by customers and/or travel agencies via third-party gdss may be adversely affected by disruptions in the business relationships between the company and gds operators. such disruptions, including a failure to agree upon acceptable contract terms when contracts expire or otherwise become subject to renegotiation, may cause the carriers flight information to be limited or unavailable for display, significantly increase fees for both the company and gds users, and impair the company relationships with its customers and travel agencies. the failure of any of the company third-party service providers to adequately perform their service obligations, or other interruptions of services, may reduce the company revenues and increase its expenses or prevent the company from operating its flights and providing other services to its customers. in addition, the company business and financial performance could be materially harmed if its customers believe that its services are unreliable or unsatisfactory. ual obligations for funding continental defined benefit pension plans are affected by factors beyond ual control. continental has defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all of its u.s. employees, other than the employees of its chelsea food services division and continental micronesia, inc. the timing and amount of ual funding requirements under continental plans depend upon a number of factors, including labor negotiations with the applicable employee groups and changes to pension plan benefits as well as factors outside of ual control, such as the number of applicable retiring employees, asset returns, interest rates and changes in pension laws. changes to these and other factors that can significantly increase ual funding requirements, such as its liquidity requirements, could have a material adverse effect on ual financial condition. union disputes, employee strikes or slowdowns, and other labor-related disruptions, as well as the integration of the united and continental workforces in connection with the merger, present the potential for a delay in achieving expected merger synergies, could adversely affect the company operations, and could result in increased costs that impair its financial performance. united and continental are both highly unionized companies. as of december 31, 2012, the company and its subsidiaries had approximately 88,000 active employees, of whom approximately 80% were represented by various u.s. labor organizations. the successful integration of united and continental and achievement of the anticipated benefits of the combined company depend in part on integrating united and continental employee groups and maintaining productive employee relations. in order to fully integrate the pre-merger represented employee groups, the company must negotiate a joint collective bargaining agreement covering each combined group. the process for integrating the labor groups of united and continental is governed by a combination of the rla, the mccaskill-bond amendment, and where applicable, the existing provisions of each company collective bargaining agreements and union policy. a delay in or failure to integrate the united and continental employee groups presents the potential for delays in achieving expected merger synergies, increased operating costs and labor disputes that could adversely affect our operations. during 2012, various labor agreements were reached between union representatives and the company. on december 15, 2012, the pilots for both united and continental ratified a joint collective bargaining agreement 18 table of contents with the company. in february 2013, the company reached tentative agreements on new joint collective bargaining agreements with the iam for the fleet service, passenger service and storekeeper workgroups at the united, continental, continental micronesia and mileage plus subsidiaries. the tentative agreements with the iam cover more than 28,000 employees and are subject to ratification by the iam members. we are also currently in the process of negotiating joint collective bargaining agreements with all of our other major represented groups. several other collective bargaining agreements were reached with unions at each of our subsidiaries during 2012, including with the united flight attendants in february 2012, the continental micronesia aircraft technicians in may 2012, the continental pilot ground instructors in june 2012 and the continental micronesia flight attendants in august 2012. the company can provide no assurance that a successful or timely resolution of labor negotiations for all amendable collective bargaining agreements will be achieved. there is a risk that unions or individual employees might pursue judicial or arbitral claims arising out of changes implemented as a result of the merger. employee dissatisfaction with the results of the seniority integration may lead to litigation that in some cases can delay implementation of the integrated seniority list. there is also a possibility that employees or unions could engage in job actions such as slow-downs, work-to-rule campaigns, sick-outs or other actions designed to disrupt united and continental normal operations, in an attempt to pressure the companies in collective bargaining negotiations. although the rla makes such actions unlawful until the parties have been lawfully released to self-help, and united and continental can seek injunctive relief against premature self-help, such actions can cause significant harm even if ultimately enjoined. in addition, achieving joint collective bargaining agreements, including the pilot agreement, with our represented employee groups is likely to increase our labor costs, which increase could be material. the airline industry is highly competitive and susceptible to price discounting and changes in capacity, which could have a material adverse effect on the company. the u.s. airline industry is characterized by substantial price competition. in recent years, the market share held by low-cost carriers has increased significantly and is expected to continue to increase. the increased market presence of low-cost carriers, which engage in substantial price discounting, has diminished the ability of large network carriers to achieve sustained profitability on domestic and international routes. airlines also compete for market share by increasing or decreasing their capacity, including route systems and the number of markets served. several of the company domestic and international competitors have increased their international capacity by including service to some destinations that the company currently serves, causing overlap in destinations served and therefore increasing competition for those destinations. in addition, the company and certain of its competitors have implemented significant capacity reductions in recent years in response to high and volatile fuel prices and stagnant global economic growth. further, certain of the company competitors may not reduce capacity or may increase capacity, impacting the expected benefit to the company from capacity reductions. this increased competition in both domestic and international markets may have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. the airline industry may undergo further bankruptcy restructuring, industry consolidation, or the creation or modification of alliances or joint ventures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the company. the company faces and may continue to face strong competition from other carriers due to bankruptcy restructuring, industry consolidation, and the creation and modification of alliances and joint ventures. a number of carriers have filed for bankruptcy protection in recent years and other domestic and international carriers could restructure in bankruptcy or threaten to do so in the future to reduce their costs. most recently, amr corporation, the parent company of american airlines, inc., filed for bankruptcy protection in november 2011 and is currently under going a restructuring under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code. carriers operating under bankruptcy protection can operate in a manner that could be adverse to the company and could emerge from bankruptcy as more vigorous competitors. both the u.s. and international airline industries have experienced consolidation through a number of mergers and acquisitions. on february 14, 2013, us airways announced an agreement to merge with amr corporation 19 table of contents and its intent to exit star alliance as a result of such merger. the company is also facing stronger competition from expanded airline alliances and joint ventures. carriers may improve their competitive positions through airline alliances, slot swaps, and/or joint ventures. certain airline joint ventures further competition by allowing airlines to coordinate routes, pool revenues and costs, and enjoy other mutual benefits, achieving many of the benefits of consolidation. open skies agreements, including the agreements between the united states and the european union and between the united states and japan, may also give rise to additional consolidation or better integration opportunities among international carriers. there is ongoing speculation that further airline consolidations or reorganizations could occur in the future. the company routinely engages in analysis and discussions regarding its own strategic position, including alliances, asset acquisitions and divestitures and may have future discussions with other airlines regarding strategic activities. if other airlines participate in such activities, those airlines may significantly improve their cost structures or revenue generation capabilities, thereby potentially making them stronger competitors of the company and potentially impairing the company ability to realize expected benefits from its own strategic relationships. increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage may materially and adversely impact the company results of operations and financial condition. following the terrorist attacks on september 11, 2001, the company insurance costs increased significantly and the availability of third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance decreased significantly. the company has obtained third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance through a special program administered by the faa. should the government discontinue this coverage, obtaining comparable coverage from commercial underwriters could result in substantially higher premiums and more restrictive terms, if such coverage is available at all. if the company is unable to obtain adequate third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance, its business could be materially and adversely affected. if any of the company aircraft were to be involved in an accident or if the company property or operations were to be affected by a significant natural catastrophe or other event, the company could be exposed to significant liability or loss. if the company is unable to obtain sufficient insurance (including aviation hull and liability insurance and property and business interruption coverage) to cover such liabilities or losses, whether due to insurance market conditions or otherwise, its results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. the company could experience adverse publicity, harm to its brand, reduced travel demand and potential tort liability as a result of an accident, catastrophe, or incident involving its aircraft, the aircraft of its regional carriers or the aircraft of its codeshare partners, which may result in a material adverse effect on the company results of operations or financial position. an accident, catastrophe, or incident involving an aircraft that the company operates, or an aircraft that is operated by a codeshare partner or one of the company regional carriers, could have a material adverse effect on the company if such accident, catastrophe, or incident created a public perception that the company operations, or the operations of its codeshare partners or regional carriers, are not safe or reliable, or less safe or reliable than other airlines. such public perception could in turn result in adverse publicity for the company, cause harm to the company brand and reduce travel demand on the company flights, or the flights of its codeshare partners or regional carriers. in addition, any such accident, catastrophe, or incident could expose the company to significant tort liability. although the company currently maintains liability insurance in amounts and of the type the company believes to be consistent with industry practice to cover damages arising from any such accident or catastrophe, and the company codeshare partners and regional carriers carry similar insurance and generally indemnify the company for their operations, if the company liability exceeds the applicable policy limits or the ability of another carrier to indemnify it, the company could incur substantial losses from an accident, catastrophe or incident which may result in a material adverse effect on the company results of operations or financial position. 20 table of contents the company results of operations fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors associated with the airline industry. due to greater demand for air travel during the spring and summer months, revenues in the airline industry in the second and third quarters of the year are generally stronger than revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year, which are periods of lower travel demand. the company results of operations generally reflect this seasonality, but have also been impacted by numerous other factors that are not necessarily seasonal including, among others, the imposition of excise and similar taxes, extreme or severe weather, air traffic control congestion, geological events, natural disasters, changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation, general economic conditions and other factors. as a result, the company quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year and historical operating results in a quarterly or annual period are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. terrorist attacks or international hostilities, or the fear of terrorist attacks or hostilities, even if not made directly on the airline industry, could negatively affect the company and the airline industry. the terrorist attacks on september 11, 2001 involving commercial aircraft severely and adversely impacted each of united and continental financial condition and results of operations, as well as the prospects for the airline industry. among the effects experienced from the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks were substantial flight disruption costs caused by the faa-imposed temporary grounding of the u.s. airline industry fleet, significantly increased security costs and associated passenger inconvenience, increased insurance costs, substantially higher ticket refunds and significantly decreased traffic and passenger revenue. additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of or the precautions taken in anticipation of such attacks (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights) could materially and adversely affect the company and the airline industry. wars and other international hostilities could also have a material adverse impact on the company financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. the company financial resources may not be sufficient to absorb the adverse effects of any future terrorist attacks or other international hostilities. an outbreak of a disease or similar public health threat could have a material adverse impact on the company business, financial position and results of operations. an outbreak of a disease or similar public health threat that affects travel demand or travel behavior, or travel restrictions or reduction in the demand for air travel caused by an outbreak of a disease or similar public health threat in the future, could have a material adverse impact on the company business, financial condition and results of operations. the company may never realize the full value of its intangible assets or its long-lived assets causing it to record impairments that may negatively affect its financial position and results of operations. in accordance with applicable accounting standards, the company is required to test its indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis on october 1 of each year, or more frequently if conditions indicate that an impairment may have occurred. in addition, the company is required to test certain of its other assets for impairment if conditions indicate that an impairment may have occurred. the company may be required to recognize impairments in the future due to, among other factors, extreme fuel price volatility, tight credit markets, a decline in the fair value of certain tangible or intangible assets, unfavorable trends in historical or forecasted results of operations and cash flows and an uncertain economic environment, as well as other uncertainties. the company can provide no assurance that a material impairment charge of tangible or intangible assets will not occur in a future period. the value of our aircraft could be impacted in future periods by changes in supply and demand for these aircraft. such changes in supply and demand for certain aircraft types could result from grounding of aircraft by the company or other carriers. an impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on the company financial position and results of operations. 21 table of contents the company ability to use its net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for u.s. federal income tax purposes may be significantly limited due to various circumstances, including certain possible future transactions involving the sale or issuance of ual common stock, or if taxable income does not reach sufficient levels. as of december 31, 2012, ual reported consolidated federal net operating loss ( nol ) carryforwards of approximately $10 billion. the company ability to use its nol carryforwards may be limited if it experiences an ownership change as defined in section 382 ( section 382 ) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended. an ownership change generally occurs if certain stockholders increase their aggregate percentage ownership of a corporation stock by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest percentage ownership at any time during the testing period, which is generally the three-year period preceding any potential ownership change. there is no assurance that the company will not experience a future ownership change under section 382 that may significantly limit or possibly eliminate its ability to use its nol carryforwards. potential future transactions involving the sale or issuance of ual common stock, including the exercise of conversion options under the terms of the company convertible debt, repurchase of such debt with ual common stock, issuance of ual common stock for cash and the acquisition or disposition of such stock by a stockholder owning 5% or more of ual common stock, or a combination of such transactions, may increase the possibility that the company will experience a future ownership change under section 382. under section 382, a future ownership change would subject the company to additional annual limitations that apply to the amount of pre-ownership change nols that may be used to offset post-ownership change taxable income. this limitation is generally determined by multiplying the value of a corporation stock immediately before the ownership change by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate. any unused annual limitation may, subject to certain limits, be carried over to later years, and the limitation may under certain circumstances be increased by built-in gains in the assets held by such corporation at the time of the ownership change. this limitation could cause the company u.s. federal income taxes to be greater, or to be paid earlier, than they otherwise would be, and could cause all or a portion of the company nol carryforwards to expire unused. similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes. the company ability to use its nol carryforwards will also depend on the amount of taxable income it generates in future periods. its nol carryforwards may expire before the company can generate sufficient taxable income to use them in full. ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation limits certain transfers of its stock which could have an effect on the market price of ual common stock. to reduce the risk of a potential adverse effect on the company ability to use its nol carryforwards for federal income tax purposes, ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains a 5% ownership limitation. this limitation generally remains effective until february 1, 2014, or until such later date as may be approved by the ual board of directors (the board of directors ) in its sole discretion. the limitation prohibits (i) an acquisition by a single stockholder of shares that results in that stockholder owning 5% or more of ual common stock and (ii) any acquisition or disposition of common stock by a stockholder that already owns 5% or more of ual common stock, unless prior written approval is granted by the board of directors. any transfer of common stock in violation of these restrictions will be void and will be treated as if such transfer never occurred. this provision of ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation may impair or prevent a sale of common stock by a stockholder and adversely affect the price at which a stockholder can sell ual common stock. in addition, this limitation may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the company, creating a perception that a change in control cannot occur or otherwise discouraging takeover attempts that some stockholders may consider beneficial, which could also adversely affect the market price of the ual common stock. the company cannot predict the effect that this provision in ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation may have on the market price of the ual common stock. for additional information regarding the 5% ownership limitation, please refer to ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation available on the company website. 22 table of contents certain provisions of ual governance documents could discourage or delay changes of control or changes to the board of directors. certain provisions of ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws (together, the governance documents ) may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the board of directors and may discourage takeover attempts that some of its stockholders may consider beneficial. certain provisions of the governance documents may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if the board of directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of ual and its stockholders. these provisions of the governance documents are not intended to prevent a takeover, but are intended to protect and maximize the value of ual stockholders interests. while these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of ual to negotiate with the board of directors, they could enable the board of directors to prevent a transaction that some, or a majority, of its stockholders might believe to be in their best interests or, they could prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. the issuance of additional shares of ual capital stock, including the issuance of common stock upon conversion of convertible notes and upon a noteholder exercise of its option to require ual to repurchase convertible notes, could cause dilution to the interests of its existing stockholders. ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes up to one billion shares of common stock. in certain circumstances, ual can issue shares of common stock without stockholder approval. in addition, the board of directors is authorized to issue up to 250 million shares of preferred stock, without par value, without any action on the part of ual stockholders. the board of directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any series of shares of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, conversion rights, dividend rights, preferences over ual common stock with respect to dividends or if ual liquidates, dissolves or winds up its business and other terms. if ual issues preferred stock in the future that has a preference over its common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon its liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if ual issues preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of its common stock, the rights of holders of its common stock or the market price of its common stock could be adversely affected. the company is also authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, other securities convertible into either preferred stock or, in certain circumstances, common stock. as of december 31, 2012, ual had $1 billion of convertible debt outstanding. holders of these securities may convert them into shares of ual common stock according to their terms. in addition, certain of ual notes include noteholder early redemption options. if a noteholder exercises such option, ual may elect to pay the repurchase price in cash, shares of its common stock or a combination thereof. see note 14 to the financial statements included in item 8 of this report for additional information related to these convertible notes. the number of shares issued could be significant and such an issuance could cause significant dilution to the interests of its existing stockholders. in addition, if ual elects to pay the repurchase price in cash, its liquidity could be adversely affected. in the future, ual may decide to raise additional capital through offerings of ual common stock, securities convertible into ual common stock, or exercise rights to acquire these securities or its common stock. the issuance of additional shares of common stock, including upon the conversion or repurchase of convertible debt, could result in significant dilution of existing stockholders equity interests in ual. issuances of substantial amounts of its common stock, or the perception that such issuances could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for ual common stock and ual cannot predict the effect this dilution may have on the price of its common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rates. our net income (loss) is affected by fluctuations in interest rates (e.g. interest expense on variable-rate debt and interest income earned on short-term investments). the company policy is to manage interest rate risk through a combination of fixed and variable rate debt. the following table summarizes information related to the company interest rate market risk at december 31 (in millions): 2012 2011 ual united continental ual united continental variable rate debt carrying value of variable rate debt at december 31 $ 2,869 $ 1,907 $ 962 $ 3,280 $ 2,109 $ 1,171 impact of 100 basis point increase on projected interest expense for the following year 25 18 7 31 20 11 fixed rate debt carrying value of fixed rate debt at december 31 9,383 3,468 5,513 8,402 3,636 4,357 fair value of fixed rate debt at december 31 10,569 3,710 5,900 8,996 3,717 4,420 impact of 100 basis point increase in market rates on fair value (349) (132) (216) (272) (110) (159) a change in market interest rates would also impact interest income earned on our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. assuming our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments remain at their average 2012 levels, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in a corresponding increase in ual, united and continental interest income of approximately $74 million, $43 million and $31 million, respectively, during 2013. 62 table of contents commodity price risk (aircraft fuel). the availability and price of aircraft fuel significantly affects the company operations, results of operations, financial position and liquidity. to protect against increases in the prices of aircraft fuel, the company routinely hedges a portion of its future fuel requirements. the company generally uses financial hedge instruments including fixed price swaps, purchased call options, and commonly used combinations using put and call options including collars (sold put option combined with purchased call option) and three-ways (sold put option combined with purchased call option and a higher strike sold call option). these hedge instruments are generally based on aircraft fuel or closely related commodities including heating oil, diesel fuel and crude oil. some financial hedge contracts may result in losses if the underlying commodity prices drop below specified floor prices. however, the negative impact of these losses may be outweighed by the benefit of lower aircraft fuel cost since the company typically hedges only a portion of its future fuel requirements. the company does not enter into hedge instruments for trading purposes. if fuel prices decline significantly from the levels existing at the time we enter into a hedge contract, we may be required to post collateral (margin) with our hedge counterparties. the company frequently monitors this margin risk and assesses the potential of posting collateral with each of its counterparties. at times, when the fair market value of the company hedge contracts is net positive to the company, it is exposed to the event of non-performance by the counterparty to the hedge contract. the company periodically monitors the credit worthiness of its counterparties and limits its exposure to any single counterparty. the company may adjust its hedging program based on changes in market conditions. the following table summarizes information related to the company cost of fuel and hedging (in millions, except percentages): ual united continental fuel costs in 2012, fuel cost as a percent of total operating expenses (a) 36% 36% 36% impact of $1 increase in price per barrel of aircraft fuel on annual fuel expense (b) $ 94 $ 52 $ 42 fuel hedges asset fair value at december 31, 2012 (c) $ 46 $ 28 $ 18 impact of a concurrent 10% decrease in forward prices of the underlying commodities on the value of fuel hedges (d) $ (148) $ (85) $ (63) collateral ual, united and continental would be required to post with fuel hedge counterparties upon a concurrent 10% decrease in forward prices of the underlying commodities of fuel hedges (e) $ 11 $ 5 $ 6 (a) includes related taxes and excludes hedging impacts and special charges. in 2011, ual s, united and continental fuel cost was 37%, 37%, and 36% of total operating expenses, respectively. (b) based on 2013 projected fuel consumption. does not include the impact of fuel hedges. (c) as of december 31, 2011, the net fair value of ual s, united and continental fuel hedges was $73 million, $44 million and $29 million, respectively. (d) based on fuel hedge positions at december 31, 2012. (e) assumes instantaneous change in prices and includes margin related to some hedge positions beyond december 31, 2013; approximately 2% for 2014. as of december 31, 2012, the company had hedged approximately 31% and 2% of its projected fuel requirements (1.2 billion and 63 million gallons, respectively) for 2013 and 2014, respectively, with commonly used financial hedge instruments based on aircraft fuel or closely related commodities, such as heating oil, diesel fuel and crude oil. 63 table of contents the fuel hedge portfolio is comprised of many individual hedge contracts (primarily option contracts) on multiple underlying commodities and entered into at various points in time, resulting in a wide range of strike prices with several hedge counterparties. the table below provides a view of the economic impact of the hedge portfolio on the company 2013 fuel costs given significant moves (up to +/-20%) in market fuel prices from december 31, 2012 (in millions). year ended december 31, 2013 (in $ per gallon) change in market fuel prices (a) (increase) decrease to unhedged fuel cost (b) hedge gain (loss) (c) net (increase) decrease to fuel cost 20% (0.60) 0.08 (0.52) 10% (0.30) 0.06 (0.24) (10)% 0.30 (0.01) 0.29 (20)% 0.60 (0.06) 0.54 (a) projected using equal shifts in spot and forward prices for aircraft fuel and all commodities (heating oil, diesel, crude oil) underlying hedge contracts from december 31, 2012 levels. (b) projections based on estimated consumption of four billion gallons and a price of $2.98 per gallon, excluding taxes and other delivery costs. (c) cash gain/(loss), including premiums, on existing hedges as of december 31, 2012. includes all hedges whether or not the hedges are designated for hedge accounting. foreign currency. the company generates revenues and incurs expenses in numerous foreign currencies. changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact the company results of operations through changes in the dollar value of foreign currency-denominated operating revenues and expenses. some of the company more significant foreign currency exposures include the canadian dollar, chinese renminbi, european euro and japanese yen. at times, the company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign currency. the company does not enter into derivative instruments for non-risk management purposes. the result of a uniform 10 percent strengthening in the value of the u.s. dollar from december 31, 2012 levels relative to each of the currencies in which the company has foreign currency exposure would result in a decrease in pre-tax income of approximately $291 million for the year ending december 31, 2013. this sensitivity analysis was prepared based upon projected 2013 foreign currency-denominated revenues and expenses as of december 31, 2012. 64 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors. the following risk factors should be read carefully when evaluating the company business and the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other statements the company or its representatives make from time to time. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect the company business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. continued periods of historically high fuel prices or significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a material adverse impact on the company operating results, financial position and liquidity. aircraft fuel has been the company single largest operating expense for the last several years. the availability and price of aircraft fuel significantly affect the company operations, results of operations, financial position and liquidity. while the company has been able to obtain adequate supplies of fuel under various supply contracts and has some ability to store fuel close to major hub locations to ensure supply continuity in the short term, the company cannot predict the continued future availability or price of aircraft fuel. continued volatility in fuel prices may negatively impact the company liquidity or financial position in the future. aircraft fuel prices can fluctuate based on a multitude of factors including market expectations of supply and demand balance, inventory levels, geopolitical events, economic growth expectations, fiscal/monetary policies and financial investment flows. the company may not be able to increase its fares or other fees if fuel prices rise in the future and any such fare or fee increases may not be sustainable in the highly competitive airline industry. in addition, any increases in fares or other fees may not sufficiently offset the full impact of such increases in fuel prices and may also reduce the general demand for air travel. to protect against increases in the prices of aircraft fuel, the company routinely hedges a portion of its future fuel requirements. however, the company hedging program may not be successful in controlling fuel costs, and price protection provided may be limited due to market conditions and other factors. to the extent that the company uses hedge contracts that have the potential to create an obligation to pay upon settlement if prices decline significantly, including swaps or sold put options as part of a collar, such hedge contracts may limit the company ability to benefit from lower fuel costs in the future. if fuel prices decline significantly from the levels existing at the time we enter into a hedge contract, we may be required to post collateral (margin) with our hedge counterparties beyond certain thresholds. also, lower fuel prices may result in increased industry capacity and lower fares in general. there can be no assurance that the company hedging arrangements will provide any particular level of protection against rises in fuel prices or that its counterparties will be able to perform under the company hedging arrangements. additionally, deterioration in the company financial condition could negatively affect its ability to enter into new hedge contracts in the future and may potentially require the company to post increased amounts of collateral under its fuel hedging agreements. in addition, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 and regulations promulgated by the commodity futures trading commission (the cftc ) require centralized clearing for over-the-counter derivatives and record-keeping and reporting requirements that are applicable to the company fuel hedge contracts. the ual board of directors ( board of directors ) has approved the company election of the cftc end-user exception, which permits the company as a non-financial end user of derivatives to hedge commercial risk and be exempt from the cftc mandatory clearing requirements. however, several of the company hedge counterparties are also subject to these requirements, which may raise the counterparties costs. those increased costs may in turn be passed on to the company, resulting in increased transaction costs to execute hedge contracts and lower credit thresholds to post collateral (margin). see note 10 to the financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this report for additional information on the company hedging programs. 11 table of contents economic and industry conditions constantly change and unfavorable global economic conditions may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company business and results of operations are significantly impacted by general economic and industry conditions. the airline industry is highly cyclical, and the level of demand for air travel is correlated to the strength of the u.s. and global economies. robust demand for our air transportation services depends largely on favorable economic conditions, including the strength of the domestic and foreign economies, low unemployment levels, strong consumer confidence levels and the availability of consumer and business credit. air transportation is often a discretionary purchase that leisure travelers may limit or eliminate during difficult economic times. in addition, during periods of unfavorable economic conditions, business travelers usually reduce the volume of their travel, either due to cost-saving initiatives or as a result of decreased business activity requiring travel. during such periods, the company business and results of operations may be adversely affected due to significant declines in industry passenger demand, particularly with respect to the company business and premium cabin travelers, and a reduction in fare levels. stagnant or weakening global economic conditions either in the united states or in other geographic regions, and any future volatility in u.s. and global financial and credit markets may have a material adverse effect on the company revenues, results of operations and liquidity. if such economic conditions were to disrupt capital markets in the future, the company may be unable to obtain financing on acceptable terms (or at all) to refinance certain maturing debt and to satisfy future capital commitments. the company is subject to economic and political instability and other risks of doing business globally. the company is a global business with operations outside of the united states from which it derives approximately 40% of its operating revenues, as measured and reported to the dot. the company operations in asia, europe, latin america, africa and the middle east are a vital part of its worldwide airline network. volatile economic, political and market conditions in these international regions may have a negative impact on the company operating results and its ability to achieve its business objectives. in addition, significant or volatile changes in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and other currencies, and the imposition of exchange controls or other currency restrictions, may have a material adverse impact upon the company liquidity, revenues, costs and operating results. inadequate liquidity or a negative impact on the company liquidity from factors beyond the company control may have a material adverse effect on the company financial position and business. the company has a significant amount of financial leverage from fixed obligations, including aircraft lease and debt financings, leases of airport property and other facilities, and other material cash obligations. in addition, the company has substantial non-cancelable commitments for capital expenditures, including the acquisition of new aircraft and related spare engines. although the company cash flows from operations and its available capital, including the proceeds from financing transactions, have been sufficient to meet these obligations and commitments to date, the company future liquidity could be negatively impacted by the risk factors discussed in this item 1a, including, but not limited to, substantial volatility in the price of fuel, adverse economic conditions, disruptions in the global capital markets and catastrophic external events. if the company liquidity is constrained due to the various risk factors noted in this item 1a or otherwise, the company might not be able to timely pay its debts or comply with certain operating and financial covenants under its financing and credit card processing agreements or with other material provisions of its contractual obligations. these covenants require the company or united, as applicable, to maintain minimum liquidity and/or minimum collateral coverage ratios, depending on the particular agreement. the company ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond its control, including the overall industry revenue environment, the level of fuel costs and the appraised value of certain collateral. 12 table of contents if the company does not timely pay its debts or comply with such covenants, a variety of adverse consequences could result. these potential adverse consequences include an increase of required reserves under credit card processing agreements, withholding of credit card sale proceeds by its credit card service providers, loss of undrawn lines of credit, occurrence of an event of default under the relevant agreement(s), acceleration of the maturity of debt and/or exercise of other remedies by its creditors and equipment lessors that could result in a material adverse effect on the company financial position and results of operations. the company cannot provide assurance that it would have sufficient liquidity to repay or refinance such debt if it were accelerated. in addition, an event of default or declaration of acceleration under certain of its financing agreements could result in an event of default under certain of the company other financing agreements due to cross default and cross acceleration provisions. furthermore, constrained liquidity may limit the company ability to withstand competitive pressures and limit its flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions, including increased competition and demand for new services, placing the company at a disadvantage when compared to its competitors that have less debt, and making the company more vulnerable than its competitors who have less debt to a downturn in the business, industry or the economy in general. the company substantial level of indebtedness and non-investment grade credit rating, as well as market conditions and the availability of assets as collateral for loans or other indebtedness, may make it difficult for the company to raise additional capital to meet its liquidity needs on acceptable terms, or at all. see part ii, item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, of this report for further information regarding the company liquidity. extensive government regulation could increase the company operating costs and restrict its ability to conduct its business. airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal oversight. compliance with u.s. and international regulations imposes significant costs and may have adverse effects on the company. laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges, both domestically and internationally, have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce airline revenue. the company cannot provide any assurance that current laws and regulations, or laws or regulations enacted in the future, will not adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations. united provides air transportation under certificates of public convenience and necessity issued by the dot. if the dot altered, amended, modified, suspended or revoked these certificates, it could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the dot is also responsible for promulgating consumer protection and other regulations such as the rule against lengthy tarmac delays, that will impose significant compliance costs on the company. the faa regulates the safety of united operations. united operates pursuant to an air carrier operating certificate issued by the faa. on january 4, 2014, the faa new and more stringent pilot flight and duty time requirements under part 117 of the federal aviation regulations took effect, which will disrupt operations and increase costs. in august 2013, the faa significantly increased the minimum qualifications for air carrier first officers. these new regulations impact the company and its regional partner flying, as they have caused mainline airlines to hire regional pilots, while simultaneously significantly reducing the pool of new pilots from which regional carriers themselves can hire. although this is an industry issue, it directly affects the company and requires it to reduce regional partner flying, as several regional partners are beginning to have difficulty flying their schedules due to reduced new pilot availability. from time to time, the faa also issues orders, airworthiness directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require material expenditures or operational restrictions by the company. these faa orders and directives could include the temporary grounding of an entire aircraft type if the faa identifies design, manufacturing, maintenance or other issues requiring immediate corrective action. faa requirements cover, among other things, retirement of older aircraft, security measures, collision avoidance systems, airborne windshear avoidance systems, noise abatement and other environmental concerns, aircraft operation and safety and increased inspections and maintenance procedures to be conducted on older aircraft. these faa directives or requirements could have a material adverse effect on the company. also, beginning in march 2014, osha regulatory 13 table of contents programs for hazard communication, hearing conservation and blood borne pathogens in the areas of cabin crewmember safety and health is expected to expose the company to increased regulatory requirements in the aircraft cabin, with associated increased costs and the possibility for operational impacts. in addition, the company operations may be adversely impacted due to the existing antiquated air traffic control ( atc ) system utilized by the u.s. government. during peak travel periods in certain markets, the current atc system inability to handle existing travel demand has led to short-term capacity constraints imposed by government agencies and resulted in delays and disruptions of air traffic. in addition, the current system will not be able to effectively handle projected future air traffic growth. imposition of these atc constraints on a long-term basis may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. failure to update the atc system in a timely manner, and the substantial funding requirements of a modernized atc system that may be imposed on air carriers may have an adverse impact on the company financial condition or results of operations. the airline industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local taxes and fees that increase the cost of the company operations. in addition to taxes and fees that the company is currently subject to, proposed taxes and fees are currently pending and if imposed, would increase the company operating expenses. the bipartisan budget act of 2013, signed into law on december 26, 2013, increases the september 11 th security fee, effective july 1, 2014. the increase is expected to result in over $3 billion in additional taxation on the industry over the next decade and may result in higher fares and lower demand for air travel. access to landing and take-off rights, or slots, at several major u.s. airports and many foreign airports served by the company are, or recently have been, subject to government regulation. certain of the company major hubs are among increasingly congested airports in the united states and have been or could be the subject of regulatory action that might limit the number of flights and/or increase costs of operations at certain times or throughout the day. the faa may limit the company airport access by limiting the number of departure and arrival slots at high density traffic airports, which could affect the company ownership and transfer rights, and local airport authorities may have the ability to control access to certain facilities or the cost of access to its facilities, which could have an adverse effect on the company business. the faa historically has taken actions with respect to airlines slot holdings that airlines have challenged; if the faa were to take actions that adversely affect the company slot holdings, the company could incur substantial costs to preserve its slots. further, the company operating costs at airports at which it operates, including the company major hubs, may increase significantly because of capital improvements at such airports that the company may be required to fund, directly or indirectly. in some circumstances, such costs could be imposed by the relevant airport authority without the company approval and may have a material adverse effect on the company financial condition. the ability of carriers to operate flights on international routes between airports in the united states and other countries may be subject to change. applicable arrangements between the united states and foreign governments may be amended from time to time, government policies with respect to airport operations may be revised, and the availability of appropriate slots or facilities may change. the company currently operates a number of flights on international routes under government arrangements, regulations or policies that designate the number of carriers permitted to operate on such routes, the capacity of the carriers providing services on such routes, the airports at which carriers may operate international flights, or the number of carriers allowed access to particular airports. any further limitations, additions or modifications to such arrangements, regulations or policies could have a material adverse effect on the company financial position and results of operations. additionally, a change in law, regulation or policy for any of the company international routes, such as open skies, could have a material adverse impact on the company financial position and results of operations and could result in the impairment of material amounts of related tangible and intangible assets. in addition, competition from revenue-sharing joint ventures and other alliance arrangements by and among other airlines could impair the value of the company business and assets on the open skies routes. the company plans to enter into or expand u.s. antitrust immunized alliances and joint ventures on various international routes are subject to receipt of approvals from applicable u.s. federal authorities and obtaining other applicable foreign government clearances or 14 table of contents satisfying the necessary applicable regulatory requirements. there can be no assurance that such approvals and clearances will be granted or will continue in effect upon further regulatory review or that changes in regulatory requirements or standards can be satisfied. many aspects of the company operations are also subject to increasingly stringent federal, state, local and international laws protecting the environment. future environmental regulatory developments, such as climate change regulations in the united states and abroad could adversely affect operations and increase operating costs in the airline industry. there are certain climate change laws and regulations that have already gone into effect and that apply to the company, including the eu ets (which is subject to international dispute), the state of california cap and trade regulations, environmental taxes for certain international flights, limited greenhouse gas reporting requirements and land-use planning laws which could apply to airports and could affect airlines in certain circumstances. in addition, there is the potential for additional regulatory actions in regard to the emission of greenhouse gases by the aviation industry. the precise nature of future requirements and their applicability to the company are difficult to predict, but the financial impact to the company and the aviation industry would likely be adverse and could be significant. the company business and operations may also be impacted by a lack of funding and, in turn, sequestration procedures at the federal government level. in april 2013, for example, the faa implemented furloughs of air traffic controllers through its capacity reduction plan, resulting in flight delays throughout the united states, including to the company flights, until the u.s. congress passed a bill suspending such furloughs. although the u.s. congress allocated resources under the bipartisan budget act of 2013 that is expected to be in effect for the 2014 and 2015 fiscal years, the risk of future lack of funding and related sequestration obligations by the faa, the transportation security administration, the u.s. customs and border protection or other federal agencies remains, potentially resulting in a material adverse impact on the company. see part i, item 1, business - industry regulation, of this report for further information on government regulation impacting the company. the company relies heavily on technology and automated systems to operate its business and any significant failure or disruption of the technology or these systems could materially harm its business. the company depends on automated systems and technology to operate its business, including computerized airline reservation systems, flight operations systems, revenue management systems, accounting systems, telecommunication systems and commercial websites, including www.united.com. united website and other automated systems must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic, maintain secure information and deliver important flight and schedule information, as well as process critical financial transactions. these systems could suffer substantial or repeated disruptions due to various events, some of which are beyond the company control, including natural disasters, power failures, terrorist attacks, equipment or software failures, computer viruses or cyber security attacks. substantial or repeated systems failures or disruptions, including failures or disruptions related to the company complex integration of systems, could reduce the attractiveness of the company services versus those of its competitors, materially impair its ability to market its services and operate its flights, result in the unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, result in increased costs, lost revenue and the loss or compromise of important data, and may adversely affect the company business, results of operations and financial condition. the company is subject to increasing legislative and regulatory and customer focus on privacy issues and data security. the company is subject to increasing legislative and regulatory and customer focus on privacy issues and data security. a number of our commercial partners, including credit card companies, have imposed data security standards that the company must meet and these standards continue to evolve. the company will continue its efforts to meet new and increasing privacy and security standards; however, it is possible that certain new standards may be difficult to meet and could increase the company costs. additionally, any compromise of the company technology systems could result in the loss, disclosure, misappropriation of or access to customers , 15 table of contents employees or business partners information. any such loss, disclosure, misappropriation or access could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information. any significant data breach or the company failure to comply with applicable u.s. and foreign privacy or data security regulations or security standards imposed by our commercial partners may adversely affect the company reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. the company business relies extensively on third-party service providers. failure of these parties to perform as expected, or interruptions in the company relationships with these providers or their provision of services to the company, could have an adverse effect on the company financial position and results of operations. the company has engaged an increasing number of third-party service providers to perform a large number of functions that are integral to its business, including regional operations, operation of customer service call centers, distribution and sale of airline seat inventory, provision of information technology infrastructure and services, provision of aircraft maintenance and repairs, provision of various utilities and performance of aircraft fueling operations, among other vital functions and services. the company does not directly control these third-party service providers, although it does enter into agreements with many of them that define expected service performance. any of these third-party service providers, however, may materially fail to meet their service performance commitments to the company, may suffer disruptions to their systems that could impact their services, or the agreements with such providers may be terminated. for example, flight reservations booked by customers and/or travel agencies via third-party gdss may be adversely affected by disruptions in the business relationships between the company and gds operators. such disruptions, including a failure to agree upon acceptable contract terms when contracts expire or otherwise become subject to renegotiation, may cause the carriers flight information to be limited or unavailable for display, significantly increase fees for both the company and gds users, and impair the company relationships with its customers and travel agencies. the failure of any of the company third-party service providers to adequately perform their service obligations, or other interruptions of services, may reduce the company revenues and increase its expenses or prevent the company from operating its flights and providing other services to its customers. in addition, the company business and financial performance could be materially harmed if its customers believe that its services are unreliable or unsatisfactory. ual obligations for funding united defined benefit pension plans are affected by factors beyond ual control. the company maintains two primary defined benefit pension plans, one covering certain pilot employees and another covering certain u.s. non-pilot employees. the timing and amount of ual funding requirements under these plans depend upon a number of factors, including labor negotiations with the applicable employee groups and changes to pension plan benefits as well as factors outside of ual control, such as the number of applicable retiring employees, asset returns, interest rates and changes in pension laws. changes to these and other factors that can significantly increase ual funding requirements, such as its liquidity requirements, could have a material adverse effect on ual financial condition. union disputes, employee strikes or slowdowns, and other labor-related disruptions, as well as the integration of united workforces in connection with the october 1, 2010 merger, could adversely affect the company operations and could result in increased costs that impair its financial performance. united is a highly unionized company. as of december 31, 2013, the company and its subsidiaries had approximately 87,000 active employees, of whom approximately 80% were represented by various u.s. labor organizations. the successful integration of united workforces in connection with the merger and achievement of the anticipated benefits of the combined company depend in part on integrating employee groups and maintaining productive employee relations. in order to fully integrate the pre-merger represented employee groups, the company must negotiate a joint collective bargaining agreement covering each combined group. the process for integrating the labor groups is governed by a combination of the rla, the mccaskill-bond amendment, and 16 table of contents where applicable, the existing provisions of collective bargaining agreements and union policies. a delay in or failure to integrate employee groups presents the potential for increased operating costs and labor disputes that could adversely affect our operations. the company can provide no assurance that a successful or timely resolution of labor negotiations for all amendable collective bargaining agreements will be achieved. there is a risk that unions or individual employees might pursue judicial or arbitral claims arising out of changes implemented as a result of the merger. there is also a possibility that employees or unions could engage in job actions such as slow-downs, work-to-rule campaigns, sick-outs or other actions designed to disrupt the company normal operations, in an attempt to pressure the company in collective bargaining negotiations. although the rla makes such actions unlawful until the parties have been lawfully released to self-help, and the company can seek injunctive relief against premature self-help, such actions can cause significant harm even if ultimately enjoined. in addition, achieving joint collective bargaining agreements with our represented employee groups is likely to increase our labor costs, which increase could be material. see notes 15 and 17 to the financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this report for more information on labor negotiations and costs. the airline industry is highly competitive and susceptible to price discounting and changes in capacity, which could have a material adverse effect on the company. the u.s. airline industry is characterized by substantial price competition including from low-cost carriers. the significant market presence of low-cost carriers, which engage in substantial price discounting, has diminished the ability of large network carriers to achieve sustained profitability on domestic and international routes. airlines also compete for market share by increasing or decreasing their capacity, including route systems and the number of markets served. several of the company domestic and international competitors have increased their international capacity by including service to some destinations that the company currently serves, causing overlap in destinations served and therefore increasing competition for those destinations. in addition, the company and certain of its competitors have implemented significant capacity reductions in recent years in response to high and volatile fuel prices and stagnant global economic growth. further, certain of the company competitors may not reduce capacity or may increase capacity, impacting the expected benefit to the company from capacity reductions. this increased competition in both domestic and international markets may have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. the airline industry may undergo further bankruptcy restructuring, industry consolidation or the creation or modification of alliances or joint ventures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the company. the company faces and may continue to face strong competition from other carriers due to bankruptcy restructuring, industry consolidation and the creation and modification of alliances and joint ventures. a number of carriers have filed for bankruptcy protection in recent years and other domestic and international carriers could restructure in bankruptcy or threaten to do so in the future to reduce their costs. carriers operating under bankruptcy protection can operate in a manner that could be adverse to the company and could emerge from bankruptcy as more vigorous competitors. both the u.s. and international airline industries have experienced consolidation through a number of mergers and acquisitions. on december 9, 2013, the same date american airlines emerged from bankruptcy protection, us airways and american airlines closed their merger transaction and, as a result of the merger transaction, the company anticipates us airways will exit star alliance on march 30, 2014. the company is also facing stronger competition from expanded airline alliances and joint ventures. carriers may improve their competitive positions through airline alliances, slot swaps and/or joint ventures. certain airline joint ventures further competition by allowing airlines to coordinate routes, pool revenues and costs, and enjoy other mutual benefits, achieving many of the benefits of consolidation. open skies agreements, including the agreements between the united states and the european union and between the united states and japan, may also give rise to additional consolidation or better integration opportunities among international carriers. 17 table of contents there is ongoing speculation that further airline consolidations or reorganizations could occur in the future. the company routinely engages in analysis and discussions regarding its own strategic position, including alliances, asset acquisitions and divestitures and may have future discussions with other airlines regarding strategic activities. if other airlines participate in such activities, those airlines may significantly improve their cost structures or revenue generation capabilities, thereby potentially making them stronger competitors of the company and potentially impairing the company ability to realize expected benefits from its own strategic relationships. increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage may materially and adversely impact the company results of operations and financial condition. following the terrorist attacks on september 11, 2001, the company insurance costs increased significantly and the availability of third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance decreased significantly. the company has obtained third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance through a special program administered by the faa. the faa statutory authority to provide war risk insurance to air carriers expires on september 30, 2014. an extension of such authority will require legislation by the u.s. congress. should the government discontinue this coverage, obtaining comparable coverage from commercial underwriters could result in substantially higher premiums and more restrictive terms. if the company is unable to obtain adequate third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance, its business could be materially and adversely affected. if any of the company aircraft were to be involved in an accident or if the company property or operations were to be affected by a significant natural catastrophe or other event, the company could be exposed to significant liability or loss. if the company is unable to obtain sufficient insurance (including aviation hull and liability insurance and property and business interruption coverage) to cover such liabilities or losses, whether due to insurance market conditions or otherwise, its results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. the company could experience adverse publicity, harm to its brand, reduced travel demand and potential tort liability as a result of an accident, catastrophe, or incident involving its aircraft, the aircraft of its regional carriers or the aircraft of its codeshare partners, which may result in a material adverse effect on the company results of operations or financial position. an accident, catastrophe, or incident involving an aircraft that the company operates, or an aircraft that is operated by a codeshare partner or one of the company regional carriers, could have a material adverse effect on the company if such accident, catastrophe, or incident created a public perception that the company operations, or the operations of its codeshare partners or regional carriers, are not safe or reliable, or less safe or reliable than other airlines. such public perception could in turn result in adverse publicity for the company, cause harm to the company brand and reduce travel demand on the company flights, or the flights of its codeshare partners or regional carriers. in addition, any such accident, catastrophe, or incident could expose the company to significant tort liability. although the company currently maintains liability insurance in amounts and of the type the company believes to be consistent with industry practice to cover damages arising from any such accident or catastrophe, and the company codeshare partners and regional carriers carry similar insurance and generally indemnify the company for their operations, if the company liability exceeds the applicable policy limits or the ability of another carrier to indemnify it, the company could incur substantial losses from an accident, catastrophe or incident which may result in a material adverse effect on the company results of operations or financial position. the company results of operations fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors associated with the airline industry. due to greater demand for air travel during the spring and summer months, revenues in the airline industry in the second and third quarters of the year are generally stronger than revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year, which are periods of lower travel demand. the company results of operations generally reflect this 18 table of contents seasonality, but have also been impacted by numerous other factors that are not necessarily seasonal including, among others, the imposition of excise and similar taxes, extreme or severe weather, air traffic control congestion, geological events, natural disasters, changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation, general economic conditions and other factors. as a result, the company quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year and historical operating results in a quarterly or annual period are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. terrorist attacks or international hostilities, or the fear of terrorist attacks or hostilities, even if not made directly on the airline industry, could negatively affect the company and the airline industry. the terrorist attacks on september 11, 2001 involving commercial aircraft severely and adversely impacted the company financial condition and results of operations, as well as the prospects for the airline industry. among the effects experienced from the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks were substantial flight disruption costs caused by the faa-imposed temporary grounding of the u.s. airline industry fleet, significantly increased security costs and associated passenger inconvenience, increased insurance costs, substantially higher ticket refunds and significantly decreased traffic and passenger revenue. additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of or the precautions taken in anticipation of such attacks (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights) could materially and adversely affect the company and the airline industry. wars and other international hostilities could also have a material adverse impact on the company financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. the company financial resources may not be sufficient to absorb the adverse effects of any future terrorist attacks or other international hostilities. an outbreak of a disease or similar public health threat could have a material adverse impact on the company business, financial position and results of operations. an outbreak of a disease or similar public health threat that affects travel demand or travel behavior, or travel restrictions or reduction in the demand for air travel caused by an outbreak of a disease or similar public health threat in the future, could have a material adverse impact on the company business, financial condition and results of operations. the company may never realize the full value of its intangible assets or its long-lived assets causing it to record impairments that may negatively affect its financial position and results of operations. in accordance with applicable accounting standards, the company is required to test its indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis on october 1 of each year, or more frequently if conditions indicate that an impairment may have occurred. in addition, the company is required to test certain of its other assets for impairment if conditions indicate that an impairment may have occurred. the company may be required to recognize impairments in the future due to, among other factors, extreme fuel price volatility, tight credit markets, a decline in the fair value of certain tangible or intangible assets, unfavorable trends in historical or forecasted results of operations and cash flows and an uncertain economic environment, as well as other uncertainties. the company can provide no assurance that a material impairment charge of tangible or intangible assets will not occur in a future period. the value of our aircraft could be impacted in future periods by changes in supply and demand for these aircraft. such changes in supply and demand for certain aircraft types could result from grounding of aircraft by the company or other carriers. an impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on the company financial position and results of operations. the company ability to use its net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for u.s. federal income tax purposes may be significantly limited due to various circumstances, including certain possible future transactions involving the sale or issuance of ual common stock, or if taxable income does not reach sufficient levels. as of december 31, 2013, ual reported consolidated federal net operating loss ( nol ) carryforwards of approximately $11 billion. 19 table of contents the company ability to use its nol carryforwards may be limited if it experiences an ownership change as defined in section 382 ( section 382 ) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended. an ownership change generally occurs if certain stockholders increase their aggregate percentage ownership of a corporation stock by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest percentage ownership at any time during the testing period, which is generally the three-year period preceding any potential ownership change. there is no assurance that the company will not experience a future ownership change under section 382 that may significantly limit or possibly eliminate its ability to use its nol carryforwards. potential future transactions involving the sale or issuance of ual common stock, including the exercise of conversion options under the terms of the company convertible debt, repurchase of such debt with ual common stock, issuance of ual common stock for cash and the acquisition or disposition of such stock by a stockholder owning 5% or more of ual common stock, or a combination of such transactions, may increase the possibility that the company will experience a future ownership change under section 382. under section 382, a future ownership change would subject the company to additional annual limitations that apply to the amount of pre-ownership change nols that may be used to offset post-ownership change taxable income. this limitation is generally determined by multiplying the value of a corporation stock immediately before the ownership change by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate. any unused annual limitation may, subject to certain limits, be carried over to later years, and the limitation may under certain circumstances be increased by built-in gains in the assets held by such corporation at the time of the ownership change. this limitation could cause the company u.s. federal income taxes to be greater, or to be paid earlier, than they otherwise would be, and could cause all or a portion of the company nol carryforwards to expire unused. similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes. the company ability to use its nol carryforwards will also depend on the amount of taxable income it generates in future periods. its nol carryforwards may expire before the company can generate sufficient taxable income to use them in full. ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation limits certain transfers of its stock which could have an effect on the market price of ual common stock. to reduce the risk of a potential adverse effect on the company ability to use its nol carryforwards for federal income tax purposes, ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains a 5% ownership limitation. this limitation generally remained effective until february 1, 2014, or until such later date as may be approved by the board of directors in its sole discretion. the limitation prohibits (i) an acquisition by a single stockholder of shares that results in that stockholder owning 5% or more of ual common stock and (ii) any acquisition or disposition of common stock by a stockholder that already owns 5% or more of ual common stock, unless prior written approval is granted by the board of directors. on december 5, 2013, the board of directors approved an extension of the 5% ownership limitation through february 1, 2017. any transfer of common stock in violation of these restrictions will be void and will be treated as if such transfer never occurred. this provision of ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation may impair or prevent a sale of common stock by a stockholder and adversely affect the price at which a stockholder can sell ual common stock. in addition, this limitation may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the company, creating a perception that a change in control cannot occur or otherwise discouraging takeover attempts that some stockholders may consider beneficial, which could also adversely affect the market price of the ual common stock. the company cannot predict the effect that this provision in ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation may have on the market price of the ual common stock. for additional information regarding the 5% ownership limitation, please refer to ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation available on the company website. certain provisions of ual governance documents could discourage or delay changes of control or changes to the board of directors. certain provisions of ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws (together, the governance documents ) may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the board of directors and may discourage takeover attempts that some of its stockholders may consider beneficial. 20 table of contents certain provisions of the governance documents may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if the board of directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of ual and its stockholders. these provisions of the governance documents are not intended to prevent a takeover, but are intended to protect and maximize the value of ual stockholders interests. while these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of ual to negotiate with the board of directors, they could enable the board of directors to prevent a transaction that some, or a majority, of its stockholders might believe to be in their best interests or, they could prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. the issuance of additional shares of ual capital stock, including the issuance of common stock upon conversion of convertible notes and upon a noteholder exercise of its option to require ual to repurchase convertible notes, would cause dilution to the interests of its existing stockholders. ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes up to one billion shares of common stock. in certain circumstances, ual can issue shares of common stock without stockholder approval. in addition, the board of directors is authorized to issue up to 250 million shares of preferred stock, without par value, without any action on the part of ual stockholders. the board of directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any series of shares of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, conversion rights, dividend rights, preferences over ual common stock with respect to dividends or if ual liquidates, dissolves or winds up its business and other terms. if ual issues preferred stock in the future that has a preference over its common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon its liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if ual issues preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of its common stock, the rights of holders of its common stock or the market price of its common stock could be adversely affected. the company is also authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, other securities convertible into either preferred stock or, in certain circumstances, common stock. as of december 31, 2013, ual had approximately $750 million of convertible debt outstanding. holders of these securities may convert them into shares of ual common stock according to their terms. in addition, certain of ual notes include noteholder early redemption options. if a noteholder exercises such option, ual may elect to pay the repurchase price in cash, shares of its common stock or a combination thereof. see note 11 to the financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this report for additional information related to these convertible notes. the number of shares issued could be significant and such an issuance could cause significant dilution to the interests of its existing stockholders. in addition, if ual elects to pay the repurchase price in cash, its liquidity could be adversely affected. in the future, ual may decide to raise additional capital through offerings of ual common stock, securities convertible into ual common stock, or exercise rights to acquire these securities or its common stock. the issuance of additional shares of common stock, including upon the conversion or repurchase of convertible debt, could result in significant dilution of existing stockholders equity interests in ual. issuances of substantial amounts of its common stock, or the perception that such issuances could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for ual common stock and ual cannot predict the effect this dilution may have on the price of its common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rates. our net income (loss) is affected by fluctuations in interest rates (e.g. interest expense on variable rate debt and interest income earned on short-term investments). the company policy is to manage interest rate risk through a combination of fixed and variable rate debt. the following table summarizes information related to the company interest rate market risk at december 31 (in millions): 2013 2012 ual united ual united variable rate debt carrying value of variable rate debt at december 31 $ 2,136 $ 2,136 $ 2,869 $ 2,869 impact of 100 basis point increase on projected interest expense for the following year 20 20 25 25 fixed rate debt carrying value of fixed rate debt at december 31 9,403 9,252 9,383 8,981 fair value of fixed rate debt at december 31 10,575 10,128 10,569 9,610 impact of 100 basis point increase in market rates on fair value (321) (320) (349) (348) a change in market interest rates would also impact interest income earned on our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. assuming our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments remain at their average 2013 levels, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in a corresponding increase in the company interest income of approximately $57 million during 2014. commodity price risk (aircraft fuel). the availability and price of aircraft fuel significantly affects the company operations, results of operations, financial position and liquidity. to protect against increases in the prices of aircraft fuel, the company routinely hedges a portion of its future fuel requirements. the company generally uses financial hedge instruments including fixed price swaps, purchased call options, and commonly used combinations using put and call options including collars (a sold put option combined with a purchased call option), three-ways (a collar with a higher strike sold call option) and four-way collars (a collar with a higher strike sold call option and a lower strike purchased put option). these hedge instruments are generally based on aircraft fuel or closely related commodities including diesel fuel and crude oil. some financial hedge contracts may result in losses if the underlying commodity prices drop below specified floor prices. however, the negative impact of these losses may be outweighed by the benefit of lower aircraft fuel cost since the company typically hedges only a portion of its future fuel requirements. the company does not enter into derivative instruments for non-risk management purposes. if fuel prices decline significantly from the levels existing at the time we enter into a hedge contract, we may be required to post collateral (margin) with our hedge counterparties. the company frequently monitors this margin risk and assesses the potential of posting collateral with each of its counterparties. at times, when the fair market value of the company hedge contracts is net positive to the company, it is exposed to the event of non-performance by the counterparty to the hedge contract. the company periodically monitors the credit worthiness of its counterparties and limits its exposure to any single counterparty. 53 table of contents the company may adjust its hedging program based on changes in market conditions. the following table summarizes information related to the company cost of fuel and hedging (in millions, except percentages): fuel costs in 2013, fuel cost as a percent of total operating expenses (a) 34% impact of $1 increase in price per barrel of aircraft fuel on annual fuel expense (b) $ 94 fuel hedges asset fair value at december 31, 2013 (c) $ 104 impact of a concurrent 10% decrease in forward prices of the underlying commodities on the value of fuel hedges (d) $ (174) collateral the company would be required to post with fuel hedge counterparties upon a concurrent 10% decrease in forward prices of the underlying commodities of fuel hedges (e) $ (a) includes related taxes and excludes hedging impacts and special charges. in 2012, the company fuel cost was 36% of total operating expenses. (b) based on 2014 projected fuel consumption. does not include the impact of fuel hedges. (c) as of december 31, 2012, the net fair value of the company fuel hedges was $46 million. (d) based on fuel hedge positions at december 31, 2013. (e) assumes instantaneous change in prices and includes margin related to some hedge positions beyond december 31, 2014; approximately 8% for 2015. as of december 31, 2013, the company had hedged approximately 24% and 8% of its projected fuel requirements (951 million and 309 million gallons, respectively) for 2014 and 2015, respectively. the company does not enter into derivative instruments for non-risk management purposes. the fuel hedge portfolio is comprised of many individual hedge contracts (primarily option contracts) on multiple underlying commodities and entered into at various points in time, resulting in a wide range of strike prices with several hedge counterparties. the table below provides a view of the economic impact of the hedge portfolio on the company 2014 fuel costs given significant moves (up to +/-20%) in market fuel prices from december 31, 2013 (in millions). year ending december 31, 2014 (in $ per gallon) change in market fuel prices (a) (increase) decrease to unhedged fuel cost (b) hedge gain (loss) (c) net (increase) decrease to fuel cost 20% (0.59) 0.09 (0.50) 10% (0.30) 0.08 (0.22) (10)% 0.30 0.30 (20)% 0.59 (0.04) 0.55 (a) projected using equal shifts in spot and forward prices for aircraft fuel and all commodities (diesel fuel and crude oil) underlying hedge contracts from december 31, 2013 levels. (b) projections based on estimated consumption of four billion gallons and a price of $2.96 per gallon, excluding taxes and other delivery costs. (c) cash gain/(loss), including premiums, on existing hedges as of december 31, 2013. includes all hedges whether or not the hedges are designated for hedge accounting. 54 table of contents foreign currency. the company generates revenues and incurs expenses in numerous foreign currencies. changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact the company results of operations through changes in the dollar value of foreign currency-denominated operating revenues and expenses. some of the company more significant foreign currency exposures include the canadian dollar, chinese renminbi, european euro and japanese yen. at times, the company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign currency. the company does not enter into derivative instruments for non-risk management purposes. at december 31, 2013, the company had forward contracts and collars outstanding to hedge 29% of its projected japanese yen-denominated cash inflows, primarily from passenger ticket sales, through 2014. the result of a uniform 10 percent strengthening in the value of the u.s. dollar from december 31, 2013 levels relative to each of the currencies in which the company has foreign currency exposure would result in a decrease in pre-tax income of approximately $269 million for the year ending december 31, 2014. this sensitivity analysis was prepared based upon projected 2014 foreign currency-denominated revenues and expenses as of december 31, 2013 and reflects the potential benefit of the japanese yen hedges mentioned above. 55 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors. the following risk factors should be read carefully when evaluating the company business and the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other statements the company or its representatives make from time to time. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect the company business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. high and/or volatile fuel prices or significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a material adverse impact on the company strategic plans, operating results, financial position and liquidity. aircraft fuel is critical to the company operations and has been the company single largest and most volatile operating expense for the last several years. the company generally sources adequate supplies of fuel at prevailing market prices and has some ability to store fuel close to major hub locations to ensure supply continuity in the short term. timely and adequate supply of aircraft fuel depends on the continued availability of reliable fuel supply sources and delivery infrastructure. although the company has some ability to cover short term supply and infrastructure disruptions at its major demand locations, it can neither predict nor guarantee the continued timely availability of aircraft fuel throughout the company system. market prices for aircraft fuel depend on a multitude of unpredictable factors beyond the company control. these factors include changes in global crude oil prices, aircraft fuel supply-demand balance, inventory levels and fuel production and transportation capacity, as well as indirect factors, such as geopolitical events, economic growth indicators, fiscal/monetary policies, fuel tax policies and financial investments. both actual changes as well as changes in market expectations of these factors can potentially drive rapid changes in fuel price levels and price volatility. given the highly competitive nature of the airline industry, the company may not be able to increase its fares and fees sufficiently to offset the full impact of increases in fuel prices, especially if these increases are rapid and sustained. further, such fare and fee increases may not be sustainable, may reduce the general demand for air travel and may also eventually impact the company strategic growth and investment plans for the future. in addition, decreases in fuel prices for an extended period may result in increased industry capacity, increased competitive actions for market share and lower fares or surcharges in general. if fuel prices were subsequently to rise significantly, there may be a lag between improvement of revenue and the adverse impact of higher fuel prices as a result of any increased industry capacity. to protect against increases in the market prices of fuel, the company routinely hedges a portion of its future fuel requirements. however, the company hedging program may not be successful in mitigating higher fuel costs, and any price protection provided may be limited due to market conditions, including choice of hedging instruments, breakdown of correlation between hedging instrument and market price of fuel and failure of hedge counterparties. to the extent that the company uses hedge contracts that have the potential to create an obligation to pay upon settlement if fuel prices decline significantly, including swaps or sold put options as part of a collar, such hedge contracts may limit the company ability to benefit fully from lower fuel costs in the future. if fuel prices decline significantly from the levels existing at the time the company enters into a hedge contract, the company may be required to post collateral (margin) beyond certain thresholds. there can be no assurance that the company hedging arrangements will provide any particular level of protection against rises in fuel prices or that its counterparties will be able to perform under the company hedging arrangements. additionally, deterioration in the company financial condition could negatively affect its ability to enter into new hedge contracts in the future and may potentially require the company to post increased amounts of collateral under its fuel hedging agreements. in addition, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 and regulations promulgated by the commodity futures trading commission (the cftc ) require centralized clearing for over-the-counter derivatives and record-keeping and reporting requirements that are applicable to the company fuel hedge contracts. the ual board of directors ( board of directors ) has approved the company election of the 11 table of contents cftc end-user exception, which permits the company as a non-financial end user of derivatives to hedge commercial risk and be exempt from the cftc mandatory clearing requirements. however, several of the company hedge counterparties are also subject to these requirements, which may raise the counterparties costs. those increased costs may in turn be passed on to the company, resulting in increased transaction costs to execute hedge contracts and lower credit thresholds to post collateral (margin). see note 10 to the financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this report for additional information on the company hedging programs. terrorist attacks or international hostilities, or the fear of terrorist attacks or hostilities, even if not made directly on the airline industry, could negatively affect the company and the airline industry. the terrorist attacks on september 11, 2001 involving commercial aircraft severely and adversely impacted the company financial condition and results of operations, as well as the prospects for the airline industry. among the effects experienced from the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks were substantial flight disruption costs caused by the faa-imposed temporary grounding of the u.s. airline industry fleet, significantly increased security costs and associated passenger inconvenience, increased insurance costs, substantially higher ticket refunds and significantly decreased traffic and passenger revenue. additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of or the precautions taken in anticipation of such attacks (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights) could materially and adversely affect the company and the airline industry. wars and other international hostilities could also have a material adverse impact on the company financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. the company financial resources may not be sufficient to absorb the adverse effects of any future terrorist attacks or other international hostilities. the company relies heavily on technology and automated systems to operate its business and any significant failure or disruption of the technology or these systems could materially harm its business. the company depends on automated systems and technology to operate its business, including computerized airline reservation systems, flight operations systems, revenue management systems, accounting systems, telecommunication systems and commercial websites, including www.united.com. united website and other automated systems must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic, maintain secure information and deliver important flight and schedule information, as well as process critical financial transactions. these systems could suffer substantial or repeated disruptions due to various events, some of which are beyond the company control, including natural disasters, power failures, terrorist attacks, equipment or software failures, computer viruses or cyber security attacks. substantial or repeated systems failures or disruptions, including failures or disruptions related to the company complex integration of systems, could reduce the attractiveness of the company services versus those of its competitors, materially impair its ability to market its services and operate its flights, result in the unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, result in increased costs, lost revenue and the loss or compromise of important data, and may adversely affect the company business, results of operations and financial condition. disruptions to the company regional network and united express flights provided by third-party regional carriers could adversely affect the company operations and financial condition. the company has contractual relationships with various regional carriers to provide regional jet and turboprop service branded as united express. these regional operations are an extension of the company mainline network and complement the company operations by carrying traffic that connects to mainline service and allows flights to smaller cities that cannot be provided economically with mainline aircraft. the company business and operations are dependent on its regional flight network, with regional capacity accounting for approximately 13% of the company total as of december 31, 2014. although the company has agreements with its regional carriers that include contractually agreed performance metrics, the company does not control the operations of these carriers. a number of factors may impact the 12 table of contents company regional network, including weather-related effects and seasonality. in addition, the decrease in qualified pilots driven by federal regulations has adversely impacted and could continue to affect the company regional flying. for example, the faa expansion of minimum pilot qualification standards, including a requirement that a pilot have at least 1,500 total flight hours, as well as the faa revised pilot flight and duty time rules, effective january 2014, have contributed to an increasing need for pilots for regional carriers. the decrease in qualified pilots resulting from the regulations as well as factors including a decreased student pilot population and a shrinking u.s. military from which to hire qualified pilots, could adversely impact the company operations and financial condition, and also require the company to reduce regional carrier flying. if a significant disruption occurs to the company regional network or flights or if one or more of the regional carriers with which the company has relationships is unable to perform their obligations over an extended period of time, there could be a material adverse effect on the company business, financial condition and operations. the company is subject to increasing legislative and regulatory and customer focus on privacy issues and data security. the company is subject to increasing legislative and regulatory and customer focus on privacy issues and data security. a number of the company commercial partners, including credit card companies, have imposed data security standards that the company must meet and these standards continue to evolve. the company will continue its efforts to meet new and increasing privacy and security standards; however, it is possible that certain new standards may be difficult to meet and could increase the company costs. additionally, any compromise of the company technology systems could result in the loss, disclosure, misappropriation of or access to customers , employees or business partners information. any such loss, disclosure, misappropriation or access could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information. any significant data breach or the company failure to comply with applicable u.s. and foreign privacy or data security regulations or security standards imposed by the company commercial partners may adversely affect the company reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. economic and industry conditions constantly change and unfavorable global economic conditions may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company business and results of operations are significantly impacted by general economic and industry conditions. the airline industry is highly cyclical, and the level of demand for air travel is correlated to the strength of the u.s. and global economies. robust demand for the company air transportation services depends largely on favorable economic conditions, including the strength of the domestic and foreign economies, low unemployment levels, strong consumer confidence levels and the availability of consumer and business credit. air transportation is often a discretionary purchase that leisure travelers may limit or eliminate during difficult economic times. in addition, during periods of unfavorable economic conditions, business travelers usually reduce the volume of their travel, either due to cost-saving initiatives or as a result of decreased business activity requiring travel. during such periods, the company business and results of operations may be adversely affected due to significant declines in industry passenger demand, particularly with respect to the company business and premium cabin travelers, and a reduction in fare levels. stagnant or weakening global economic conditions either in the united states or in other geographic regions, and any future volatility in u.s. and global financial and credit markets may have a material adverse effect on the company revenues, results of operations and liquidity. if such economic conditions were to disrupt capital markets in the future, the company may be unable to obtain financing on acceptable terms (or at all) to refinance certain maturing debt and to satisfy future capital commitments. 13 table of contents the company could experience adverse publicity, harm to its brand, reduced travel demand and potential tort liability as a result of an accident, catastrophe, or incident involving its aircraft, the aircraft of its regional carriers or the aircraft of its codeshare partners, which may result in a material adverse effect on the company results of operations or financial position. an accident, catastrophe, or incident involving an aircraft that the company operates, or an aircraft that is operated by a codeshare partner or one of the company regional carriers, could have a material adverse effect on the company if such accident, catastrophe, or incident created a public perception that the company operations, or the operations of its codeshare partners or regional carriers, are not safe or reliable, or less safe or reliable than other airlines. such public perception could in turn result in adverse publicity for the company, cause harm to the company brand and reduce travel demand on the company flights, or the flights of its codeshare partners or regional carriers. in addition, any such accident, catastrophe, or incident could expose the company to significant tort liability. although the company currently maintains liability insurance in amounts and of the type the company believes to be consistent with industry practice to cover damages arising from any such accident or catastrophe, and the company codeshare partners and regional carriers carry similar insurance and generally indemnify the company for their operations, if the company liability exceeds the applicable policy limits or the ability of another carrier to indemnify it, the company could incur substantial losses from an accident, catastrophe or incident which may result in a material adverse effect on the company results of operations or financial position. the company business relies extensively on third-party service providers. failure of these parties to perform as expected, or interruptions in the company relationships with these providers or their provision of services to the company, could have an adverse effect on the company financial position and results of operations. the company has engaged an increasing number of third-party service providers to perform a large number of functions that are integral to its business, including regional operations, operation of customer service call centers, distribution and sale of airline seat inventory, provision of information technology infrastructure and services, transmitting or uploading of data, provision of aircraft maintenance and repairs, provision of various utilities and performance of aircraft fueling operations, among other vital functions and services. the company does not directly control these third-party service providers, although it does enter into agreements with many of them that define expected service performance. any of these third-party service providers, however, may materially fail to meet their service performance commitments to the company, may suffer disruptions to their systems that could impact their services, or the agreements with such providers may be terminated. for example, flight reservations booked by customers and travel agencies via third-party gdss may be adversely affected by disruptions in the business relationships between the company and gds operators. such disruptions, including a failure to agree upon acceptable contract terms when contracts expire or otherwise become subject to renegotiation, may cause the company flight information to be limited or unavailable for display, significantly increase fees for both the company and gds users, and impair the company relationships with its customers and travel agencies. the failure of any of the company third-party service providers to perform their service obligations adequately, or other interruptions of services, may reduce the company revenues and increase its expenses, prevent the company from operating its flights and providing other services to its customers or result in adverse publicity or harm to its brand. in addition, the company business and financial performance could be materially harmed if its customers believe that its services are unreliable or unsatisfactory. inadequate liquidity or a negative impact on the company liquidity from factors beyond the company control may have a material adverse effect on the company financial position and business. the company has a significant amount of financial leverage from fixed obligations, including aircraft lease and debt financings, leases of airport property and other facilities, and other material cash obligations. in addition, the company has substantial non-cancelable commitments for capital expenditures, including for the acquisition of new aircraft and related spare engines. 14 table of contents although the company cash flows from operations and its available capital, including the proceeds from financing transactions, have been sufficient to meet these obligations and commitments to date, the company future liquidity could be negatively affected by the risk factors discussed in this item 1a., including, but not limited to, substantial volatility in the price of fuel, adverse economic conditions, disruptions in the global capital markets and catastrophic external events. if the company liquidity is constrained due to the various risk factors noted in this item 1a. or otherwise, the company might not be able to timely pay its debts or comply with certain operating and financial covenants under its financing and credit card processing agreements or with other material provisions of its contractual obligations. these covenants require the company or united, as applicable, to maintain minimum liquidity and/or minimum collateral coverage ratios, depending on the particular agreement. the company ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond its control, including the overall industry revenue environment, the level of fuel costs and the appraised value of certain collateral. if the company does not timely pay its debts or comply with such covenants, a variety of adverse consequences could result. these potential adverse consequences include an increase of required reserves under credit card processing agreements, withholding of credit card sale proceeds by its credit card service providers, loss of undrawn lines of credit, the occurrence of one or more events of default under the relevant agreements, the acceleration of the maturity of debt and/or the exercise of other remedies by its creditors and equipment lessors that could result in a material adverse effect on the company financial position and results of operations. the company cannot provide assurance that it would have sufficient liquidity to repay or refinance such debt if it were accelerated. in addition, an event of default or acceleration of debt under certain of its financing agreements could result in one or more events of default under certain of the company other financing agreements due to cross default and cross acceleration provisions. furthermore, constrained liquidity may limit the company ability to withstand competitive pressures and downturns in the travel business and the economy in general. the company substantial level of indebtedness and non-investment grade credit rating, as well as market conditions and the availability of assets as collateral for loans or other indebtedness, may make it difficult for the company to raise additional capital to meet its liquidity needs on acceptable terms, or at all. see part ii, item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, of this report for additional information regarding the company liquidity. union disputes, employee strikes or slowdowns, and other labor-related disruptions, as well as the integration of united workforces in connection with the company merger transaction in 2010, could adversely affect the company operations and could result in increased costs that impair its financial performance. united is a highly unionized company. as of december 31, 2014, the company and its subsidiaries had approximately 84,000 active employees, of whom approximately 80% were represented by various u.s. labor organizations. the successful integration of united workforces in connection with the company merger transaction in 2010 and achievement of the anticipated benefits of the combined company depend in part on integrating employee groups and maintaining productive employee relations. in order to fully integrate the company pre-merger represented employee groups, the company must negotiate a joint collective bargaining agreement covering each combined group. the process for integrating the labor groups is governed by a combination of the rla, the mccaskill-bond amendment, and where applicable, the existing provisions of collective bargaining agreements and union policies. a delay in or failure to integrate employee groups presents the potential for increased operating costs and labor disputes that could adversely affect the company operations. the company can provide no assurance that a successful or timely resolution of labor negotiations for all amendable collective bargaining agreements will be achieved. there is a risk that unions or individual employees might pursue judicial or arbitral claims arising out of changes implemented as a result of the company merger 15 table of contents transaction in 2010. there is also a possibility that employees or unions could engage in job actions such as slow-downs, work-to-rule campaigns, sick-outs or other actions designed to disrupt the company normal operations, in an attempt to pressure the company in collective bargaining negotiations. although the rla makes such actions unlawful until the parties have been lawfully released to self-help, and the company can seek injunctive relief against premature self-help, such actions can cause significant harm even if ultimately enjoined. in addition, achieving joint collective bargaining agreements with the company represented employee groups is likely to increase the company labor costs, which increase could be material. see notes 15 and 17 to the financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this report for additional information on labor negotiations and costs. an outbreak of a disease or similar public health threat could have a material adverse impact on the company business, financial position and results of operations. an outbreak of a disease or similar public health threat that affects travel demand or travel behavior, or travel restrictions or reduction in the demand for air travel caused by an outbreak of a disease or similar public health threat in the future, could have a material adverse impact on the company business, financial condition and results of operations. the company is subject to economic and political instability and other risks of doing business globally. the company is a global business with operations outside of the united states from which it derives approximately 40% of its operating revenues, as measured and reported to the dot. the company operations in asia, europe, latin america, africa and the middle east are a vital part of its worldwide airline network. volatile economic, political and market conditions in these international regions may have a negative impact on the company operating results and its ability to achieve its business objectives. in addition, significant or volatile changes in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and other currencies, and the imposition of exchange controls or other currency restrictions, may have a material adverse impact upon the company liquidity, revenues, costs and operating results. most recently, economic instability in venezuela resulted in exchange rate changes that apply to the company funds held in venezuelan bolivars. the company had approximately $100 million of its unrestricted cash balance held in venezuelan bolivars as of december 31, 2014 based on a mix of historical rates in effect at the time of submission for repatriation. there can be no assurance that the company will be able to repatriate any or all of the funds held in venezuelan bolivars in the future. additionally, the amount and exchange rate at which the balance of funds will be repatriated could change resulting in a loss to the company. if economic instability and devaluation of the local currency continue for a period of time in venezuela, such conditions may have an adverse impact on the company business. extensive government regulation could increase the company operating costs and restrict its ability to conduct its business. airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal oversight. compliance with u.s. and international regulations imposes significant costs and may have adverse effects on the company. laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges, both domestically and internationally, have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce airline revenue. the company cannot provide any assurance that current laws and regulations, or laws or regulations enacted in the future, will not adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations. united provides air transportation under certificates of public convenience and necessity issued by the dot. if the dot altered, amended, modified, suspended or revoked these certificates, it could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the dot is also responsible for promulgating consumer protection and other regulations such as the rule against lengthy tarmac delays, that will impose significant compliance costs on the company. the faa regulates the safety of united operations. united operates pursuant to an air carrier operating certificate issued by the faa. in january 2014, the faa more stringent pilot flight and duty time 16 table of contents requirements under part 117 of the federal aviation regulations took effect, which has increased costs for all carriers. in july 2014, minimum qualifications took effect for air carrier first officers. these regulations impact the company and its regional partner flying, as they have caused mainline airlines to hire regional pilots, while simultaneously significantly reducing the pool of new pilots from which regional carriers themselves can hire. although this is an industry issue, it directly affects the company and requires it to reduce regional partner flying, as several regional partners have experienced difficulty flying their schedules due to reduced pilot availability. from time to time, the faa also issues orders, airworthiness directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require material expenditures or operational restrictions by the company. these faa orders and directives could include the temporary grounding of an entire aircraft type if the faa identifies design, manufacturing, maintenance or other issues requiring immediate corrective action. faa requirements cover, among other things, retirement of older aircraft, security measures, collision avoidance systems, airborne windshear avoidance systems, noise abatement and other environmental concerns, aircraft operation and safety and increased inspections and maintenance procedures to be conducted on older aircraft. these faa directives or requirements could have a material adverse effect on the company. also, osha regulatory programs for hazard communication, hearing conservation and blood-borne pathogens in the areas of cabin crewmember safety and health, which began in march 2014, have exposed the company to increased regulatory requirements in the aircraft cabin, with associated increased costs and the possibility for operational impacts. in addition, the company operations may be adversely impacted due to the existing antiquated air traffic control ( atc ) system utilized by the u.s. government. during peak travel periods in certain markets, the current atc system inability to handle existing travel demand has led to short-term capacity constraints imposed by government agencies and resulted in delays and disruptions of air traffic. in addition, the current system will not be able to effectively handle projected future air traffic growth. imposition of these atc constraints on a long-term basis may have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations. failure to update the atc system in a timely manner, and the substantial funding requirements of a modernized atc system that may be imposed on air carriers may have an adverse impact on the company financial condition or results of operations. the airline industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local taxes and fees that increase the cost of the company operations. in addition to taxes and fees that the company is currently subject to, proposed taxes and fees are currently pending and if imposed, would increase the company operating expenses. access to landing and take-off rights, or slots, at several major u.s. airports and many foreign airports served by the company are, or recently have been, subject to government regulation. certain of the company major hubs are among increasingly congested airports in the united states and have been or could be the subject of regulatory action that might limit the number of flights and/or increase costs of operations at certain times or throughout the day. the faa may limit the company airport access by limiting the number of departure and arrival slots at high density traffic airports, which could affect the company ownership and transfer rights, and local airport authorities may have the ability to control access to certain facilities or the cost of access to its facilities, which could have an adverse effect on the company business. the faa historically has taken actions with respect to airlines slot holdings that airlines have challenged; if the faa were to take actions that adversely affect the company slot holdings, the company could incur substantial costs to preserve its slots. further, the company operating costs at airports at which it operates, including the company major hubs, may increase significantly because of capital improvements at such airports that the company may be required to fund, directly or indirectly. in some circumstances, such costs could be imposed by the relevant airport authority without the company approval and may have a material adverse effect on the company financial condition. the ability of carriers to operate flights on international routes between airports in the united states and other countries may be subject to change. applicable arrangements between the united states and foreign governments may be amended from time to time, government policies with respect to airport operations may be revised, and the availability of appropriate slots or facilities may change. the company currently operates a number of flights on international routes under government arrangements, regulations or policies that designate the number of 17 table of contents carriers permitted to operate on such routes, the capacity of the carriers providing services on such routes, the airports at which carriers may operate international flights, or the number of carriers allowed access to particular airports. any further limitations, additions or modifications to such arrangements, regulations or policies could have a material adverse effect on the company financial position and results of operations. additionally, a change in law, regulation or policy for any of the company international routes, such as open skies, could have a material adverse impact on the company financial position and results of operations and could result in the impairment of material amounts of related tangible and intangible assets. in addition, competition from revenue-sharing joint ventures and other alliance arrangements by and among other airlines could impair the value of the company business and assets on the open skies routes. the company plans to enter into or expand u.s. antitrust immunized alliances and joint ventures on various international routes are subject to receipt of approvals from applicable u.s. federal authorities and obtaining other applicable foreign government clearances or satisfying the necessary applicable regulatory requirements. there can be no assurance that such approvals and clearances will be granted or will continue in effect upon further regulatory review or that changes in regulatory requirements or standards can be satisfied. many aspects of the company operations are also subject to increasingly stringent federal, state, local and international laws protecting the environment. future environmental regulatory developments, such as climate change regulations in the united states and abroad could adversely affect operations and increase operating costs in the airline industry. there are certain climate change laws and regulations that have already gone into effect and that apply to the company, including the eu ets, the state of california greenhouse gas cap and trade regulations, environmental taxes for certain international flights, limited greenhouse gas reporting requirements and land-use planning laws which could apply to airports and could affect airlines in certain circumstances. in addition, there is the potential for additional regulatory actions in regard to the emission of greenhouse gases by the aviation industry. the precise nature of future requirements and their applicability to the company are difficult to predict, but the financial impact to the company and the aviation industry would likely be adverse and could be significant. in 2015, the u.s. congress will begin consideration of legislation to reauthorize the faa, which encompasses all significant aviation tax and policy related issues. as with previous reauthorization legislation, the u.s. congress may consider a range of policy changes that could impact the company operations and costs. see part i, item 1, business industry regulation, of this report for additional information on government regulation impacting the company. the airline industry is highly competitive and susceptible to price discounting and changes in capacity, which could have a material adverse effect on the company. the u.s. airline industry is characterized by substantial price competition including from low-cost carriers. the significant market presence of low-cost carriers, which engage in substantial price discounting, has diminished the ability of large network carriers to achieve sustained profitability on domestic and international routes. airlines also compete for market share by increasing or decreasing their capacity, including route systems and the number of markets served. several of the company domestic and international competitors have increased their international capacity by including service to some destinations that the company currently serves, causing overlap in destinations served and therefore increasing competition for those destinations. in addition, the company and certain of its competitors have implemented significant capacity reductions in recent years in response to high and volatile fuel prices and stagnant global economic growth. further, certain of the company competitors may not reduce capacity or may increase capacity, impacting the expected benefit to the company from capacity reductions. this increased competition in both domestic and international markets may have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. 18 table of contents ual obligations for funding united defined benefit pension plans are affected by factors beyond ual control. the company maintains two primary defined benefit pension plans, one covering certain pilot employees and another covering certain u.s. non-pilot employees. the timing and amount of ual funding requirements under these plans depend upon a number of factors, including labor negotiations with the applicable employee groups and changes to pension plan benefits as well as factors outside of ual control, such as the number of applicable retiring employees, asset returns, interest rates and changes in pension laws. changes to these and other factors that can significantly increase ual funding requirements, such as its liquidity requirements, could have a material adverse effect on ual financial condition. the airline industry may undergo further consolidation, creation or modification of alliances or joint ventures or bankruptcy restructuring, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the company. the company faces and may continue to face strong competition from other carriers due to industry consolidation, the creation and modification of alliances and joint ventures and bankruptcy restructuring. both the u.s. and international airline industries have experienced consolidation through a number of mergers and acquisitions. the company is also facing stronger competition from expanded airline alliances and joint ventures. carriers may improve their competitive positions through airline alliances, slot swaps and/or joint ventures. certain types of airline joint ventures further competition by allowing multiple airlines to coordinate routes, pool revenues and costs, and enjoy other mutual benefits, achieving many of the benefits of consolidation. open skies agreements, including the agreements between the united states and the european union and between the united states and japan, may also give rise to additional consolidation or better integration opportunities among international carriers. movement of airlines between current global airline alliances could reduce joint network coverage for members of such alliances while also creating opportunities for joint ventures and bilateral alliances that did not exist before such realignment. a number of carriers, both domestic and international, have filed for bankruptcy protection in the last ten years and other domestic and international carriers could restructure or consolidate in bankruptcy or threaten to do so in the future to reduce their costs. carriers operating under bankruptcy protection can operate in a manner that could be adverse to the company, could divest assets to the company competitors and could emerge from bankruptcy as more vigorous competitors. there is ongoing speculation that further airline and airline alliance consolidations or reorganizations could occur in the future. the company routinely engages in analysis and discussions regarding its own strategic position, including current and potential alliances, asset acquisitions and divestitures and may have future discussions with other airlines regarding strategic activities. if other airlines participate in such activities, those airlines may significantly improve their cost structures or revenue generation capabilities, thereby potentially making them stronger competitors of the company and potentially impairing the company ability to realize expected benefits from its own strategic relationships. increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage may materially and adversely impact the company results of operations and financial condition. the company could be exposed to significant liability or loss if its property or operations were to be affected by a natural catastrophe or other event, including aircraft accidents. if the company is unable to obtain sufficient insurance (including but not limited to aviation hull and liability insurance, workers compensation, and property and business interruption coverage) to cover such liabilities or losses, whether due to insurance market conditions or otherwise, its results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. following the terrorist attacks on september 11, 2001, the company insurance costs increased significantly and the availability of third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance decreased significantly. from september 2001 through may 2014, the company obtained third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance through a faa-administered program. in anticipation of the government discontinuing this program, effective may 2014, the company terminated its faa-administered insurance and returned to the commercial insurance markets to obtain third-party war risk 19 table of contents (terrorism) insurance. the government subsequently discontinued the faa-administered program in december 2014. if the company is unable in the future to obtain third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance with acceptable terms, or if the coverage obtained is insufficient relative to actual liability or losses that the company experiences, its results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. the company results of operations fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors associated with the airline industry. due to greater demand for air travel during the spring and summer months, revenues in the airline industry in the second and third quarters of the year are generally stronger than revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year, which are periods of lower travel demand. the company results of operations generally reflect this seasonality, but have also been impacted by numerous other factors that are not necessarily seasonal including, among others, the imposition of excise and similar taxes, extreme or severe weather, air traffic control congestion, geological events, natural disasters, changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation, general economic conditions and other factors. as a result, the company quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year and historical operating results in a quarterly or annual period are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. the company may never realize the full value of its intangible assets or its long-lived assets causing it to record impairments that may negatively affect its financial position and results of operations. in accordance with applicable accounting standards, the company is required to test its indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis on october 1 of each year, or more frequently if conditions indicate that an impairment may have occurred. in addition, the company is required to test certain of its other assets for impairment if conditions indicate that an impairment may have occurred. the company may be required to recognize impairments in the future due to, among other factors, extreme fuel price volatility, tight credit markets, a decline in the fair value of certain tangible or intangible assets, unfavorable trends in historical or forecasted results of operations and cash flows and an uncertain economic environment, as well as other uncertainties. the company can provide no assurance that a material impairment charge of tangible or intangible assets will not occur in a future period. the value of the company aircraft could be impacted in future periods by changes in supply and demand for these aircraft. such changes in supply and demand for certain aircraft types could result from grounding of aircraft by the company or other carriers. an impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on the company financial position and results of operations. the company ability to use its net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for u.s. federal income tax purposes may be significantly limited due to various circumstances, including certain possible future transactions involving the sale or issuance of ual common stock, or if taxable income does not reach sufficient levels. as of december 31, 2014, ual reported consolidated federal net operating loss ( nol ) carryforwards of approximately $9.6 billion. the company ability to use its nol carryforwards may be limited if it experiences an ownership change as defined in section 382 ( section 382 ) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended. an ownership change generally occurs if certain stockholders increase their aggregate percentage ownership of a corporation stock by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest percentage ownership at any time during the testing period, which is generally the three-year period preceding any potential ownership change. there is no assurance that the company will not experience a future ownership change under section 382 that may significantly limit or possibly eliminate its ability to use its nol carryforwards. potential future transactions involving the sale or issuance of ual common stock, including the exercise of conversion options under the terms of any convertible debt that ual may issue in the future, the repurchase of such debt with ual common stock, any issuance of ual common stock for cash and the acquisition or disposition of such stock by a 20 table of contents stockholder owning 5% or more of ual common stock, or a combination of such transactions, may increase the possibility that the company will experience a future ownership change under section 382. under section 382, a future ownership change would subject the company to additional annual limitations that apply to the amount of pre-ownership change nols that may be used to offset post-ownership change taxable income. this limitation is generally determined by multiplying the value of a corporation stock immediately before the ownership change by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate. any unused annual limitation may, subject to certain limits, be carried over to later years, and the limitation may under certain circumstances be increased by built-in gains in the assets held by such corporation at the time of the ownership change. this limitation could cause the company u.s. federal income taxes to be greater, or to be paid earlier, than they otherwise would be, and could cause all or a portion of the company nol carryforwards to expire unused. similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes. the company ability to use its nol carryforwards will also depend on the amount of taxable income it generates in future periods. its nol carryforwards may expire before the company can generate sufficient taxable income to use them in full. ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation limits certain transfers of its stock which could have an effect on the market price of ual common stock. to reduce the risk of a potential adverse effect on the company ability to use its nol carryforwards for federal income tax purposes, ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains a 5% ownership limitation. this limitation generally remains effective until february 1, 2017, or until such later date as may be approved by the board of directors in its sole discretion. the limitation prohibits (i) an acquisition by a single stockholder of shares that results in that stockholder owning 5% or more of ual common stock and (ii) any acquisition or disposition of common stock by a stockholder that already owns 5% or more of ual common stock, unless prior written approval is granted by the board of directors. any transfer of common stock in violation of these restrictions will be void and will be treated as if such transfer never occurred. this provision of ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation may impair or prevent a sale of common stock by a stockholder and adversely affect the price at which a stockholder can sell ual common stock. in addition, this limitation may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the company, creating a perception that a change in control cannot occur or otherwise discouraging takeover attempts that some stockholders may consider beneficial, which could also adversely affect the market price of the ual common stock. the company cannot predict the effect that this provision in ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation may have on the market price of the ual common stock. for additional information regarding the 5% ownership limitation, please refer to ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation available on the company website. certain provisions of ual governance documents could discourage or delay changes of control or changes to the board of directors. certain provisions of ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws (together, the governance documents ) may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the board of directors and may discourage takeover attempts that some of its stockholders may consider beneficial. certain provisions of the governance documents may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if the board of directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of ual and its stockholders. these provisions of the governance documents are not intended to prevent a takeover, but are intended to protect and maximize the value of ual stockholders interests. while these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of ual to negotiate with the board of directors, they could enable the board of directors to prevent a transaction that some, or a majority, of its stockholders might believe to be in their best interests or, they could prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. 21 table of contents the issuance of additional shares of ual capital stock, including the issuance of common stock upon conversion of convertible notes, would cause dilution to the interests of its existing stockholders. ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes up to one billion shares of common stock. in certain circumstances, ual can issue shares of common stock without stockholder approval. in addition, the board of directors is authorized to issue up to 250 million shares of preferred stock, without par value, without any action on the part of ual stockholders. the board of directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any series of shares of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, conversion rights, dividend rights, preferences over ual common stock with respect to dividends or if ual liquidates, dissolves or winds up its business and other terms. if ual issues preferred stock in the future that has a preference over its common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon its liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if ual issues preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of its common stock, the rights of holders of its common stock or the market price of its common stock could be adversely affected. the company is also authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, other securities convertible into either preferred stock or, in certain circumstances, common stock. the number of shares issued could be significant and such an issuance could cause significant dilution to the interests of its existing stockholders. in addition, if ual elects to pay the repurchase price in cash, its liquidity could be adversely affected. in the future, ual may decide to raise additional capital through offerings of ual common stock, securities convertible into ual common stock, or exercise rights to acquire these securities or its common stock. the issuance of additional shares of common stock, including upon the conversion or repurchase of convertible debt, could result in significant dilution of existing stockholders equity interests in ual. issuances of substantial amounts of its common stock, or the perception that such issuances could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for ual common stock and ual cannot predict the effect this dilution may have on the price of its common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 52 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rates. our net income (loss) is affected by fluctuations in interest rates (e.g. interest expense on variable rate debt and interest income earned on short-term investments). the company policy is to manage interest rate risk through a combination of fixed and variable rate debt. the following table summarizes information related to the company interest rate market risk at december 31 (in millions): 2014 2013 ual united ual united variable rate debt carrying value of variable rate debt at december 31 $ 2,534 $ 2,534 $ 2,136 $ 2,136 impact of 100 basis point increase on projected interest expense for the following year 24 24 20 20 fixed rate debt carrying value of fixed rate debt at december 31 8,900 8,899 9,403 9,252 fair value of fixed rate debt at december 31 9,971 9,971 10,575 10,128 impact of 100 basis point increase in market rates on fair value (385) (385) (321) (320) a change in market interest rates would also impact interest income earned on our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. assuming our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments remain at their average 2014 levels, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in a corresponding increase in the company interest income of approximately $51 million during 2015. commodity price risk (aircraft fuel). the price level of aircraft fuel can significantly affect the company operations, results of operations, financial position and liquidity. to protect against increases in the prices of aircraft fuel, the company routinely hedges a portion of its future fuel requirements. the company generally uses financial hedge instruments including fixed price swaps, purchased call options, and commonly used combinations using put and call options including collars (a sold put option combined with a purchased call option), three-ways (a collar with a higher strike sold call option) and four-way collars (a collar with a higher strike sold call option and a lower strike purchased put option). these hedge instruments are generally based on aircraft fuel or closely related commodities including diesel fuel and crude oil. if the prices of the underlying commodity drop and stay below specified floor prices in some hedge contracts such as fixed price swaps and collars, the company may incur losses. however, the negative impact of these losses would be significantly outweighed by the benefit of lower aircraft fuel cost since the company typically hedges only a portion of its future fuel requirements. in addition, the company continually monitors its portfolio of hedge contracts and may take actions to curtail or limit its losses from such hedge contracts if market conditions change. the company does not enter into derivative instruments for non-risk management purposes. if fuel prices decline significantly from the levels existing at the time we enter into a hedge contract, we may be required to post collateral (margin) with our hedge counterparties. the company frequently monitors this margin risk and assesses the potential of depositing additional collateral with each of its counterparties. at times, when the fair market value of the company hedge contracts is net positive to the company, it is exposed to the event of non-performance by the counterparty to the hedge contract. the company periodically monitors the credit worthiness of its counterparties, requires its counterparties to post collateral above certain thresholds and generally limits its exposure to any single counterparty. 52 table of contents the company may adjust its hedging program based on changes in market conditions. the following table summarizes information related to the company cost of fuel and hedging (in millions, except percentages): fuel costs in 2014, fuel cost as a percent of total operating expenses (a) 32% impact of $1 increase in price per barrel of aircraft fuel on annual fuel expense (b) $ 93 fuel hedges liability fair value at december 31, 2014 (c) $ 717 increase in fuel hedge liability that would result from a concurrent 10% decrease in forward prices of the underlying commodities of fuel hedges (d) $ 138 collateral deposited with fuel hedge counterparties as of december 31, 2014 $ 577 additional collateral the company would be required to deposit with fuel hedge counterparties upon a concurrent 10% decrease in forward prices of the underlying commodities of fuel hedges (e) $ 53 (a) includes related taxes and excludes hedging impacts and special charges. in 2013, the company fuel cost was 34% of total operating expenses. (b) based on 2015 projected fuel consumption. does not include the impact of fuel hedges. (c) as of december 31, 2013, the net fair value of the company fuel hedges was an asset of $104 million. (d) based on fuel hedge positions at december 31, 2014. (e) assumes instantaneous change in prices and includes margin related to some hedge positions beyond december 31, 2015; approximately 1% for 2016. as of december 31, 2014, the company had hedged approximately 22% and 1% of its projected fuel requirements (859 million and 35 million gallons, respectively) for 2015 and 2016, respectively, with commonly used financial hedge instruments based on aircraft fuel or crude oil. as of december 31, 2014, the company had fuel hedges expiring through march 2016. the fuel hedge portfolio is comprised of many individual hedge contracts (primarily option contracts) on multiple underlying commodities and entered into at various points in time, resulting in a wide range of strike prices with several hedge counterparties. the table below provides a view of the economic impact of the hedge portfolio on the company 2015 fuel costs given significant moves (up to +/-30%) in market fuel prices from december 31, 2014 (in millions). year ending december 31, 2015 (in $ per gallon) change in market fuel prices (a) (increase) decrease to unhedged fuel cost (b) hedge gain (loss) (c) net (increase) decrease to fuel cost 30% (0.53) (0.07) (0.61) 20% (0.36) (0.11) (0.47) 10% (0.18) (0.15) (0.33) (10)% 0.18 (0.22) (0.04) (20)% 0.36 (0.25) 0.10 (30)% 0.53 (0.29) 0.24 (a) projected using equal shifts in spot and forward prices for aircraft fuel and crude oil underlying hedge contracts from december 31, 2014 levels. (b) projections based on estimated consumption of 3.9 billion gallons and a price of $1.78 per gallon, excluding taxes and other delivery costs. (c) cash gain/(loss), including premiums, on existing hedges as of december 31, 2014. includes all hedges whether or not the hedges are designated for hedge accounting. 53 table of contents foreign currency. the company generates revenues and incurs expenses in numerous foreign currencies. changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact the company results of operations through changes in the dollar value of foreign currency-denominated operating revenues and expenses. some of the company more significant foreign currency exposures include the canadian dollar, chinese renminbi, european euro and japanese yen. at times, the company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign currency. the company does not enter into derivative instruments for non-risk management purposes. at december 31, 2014, the company had forward contracts and collars outstanding to hedge 60% of its projected european euro-denominated net cash inflows, primarily from passenger ticket sales, through the end of 2015. the result of a uniform 10 percent strengthening in the value of the u.s. dollar from december 31, 2014 levels relative to each of the currencies in which the company has foreign currency exposure would result in a decrease in pre-tax income of approximately $262 million for the year ending december 31, 2015. this sensitivity analysis was prepared based upon projected 2015 foreign currency-denominated revenues and expenses as of december 31, 2014 and reflects the potential benefit of the european euro hedges mentioned above. 54 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors. the following risk factors should be read carefully when evaluating the company business and the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other statements the company or its representatives make from time to time. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect the company business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. global economic, political and industry conditions constantly change and unfavorable conditions may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company business and results of operations are significantly impacted by general economic and industry conditions. the airline industry is highly cyclical, and the level of demand for air travel is correlated to the strength of the u.s. and global economies. the company is a global business with operations outside of the united states from which it derives significant operating revenues. the company international operations are a vital part of its worldwide airline network. volatile economic, political and market conditions in these international regions may have a negative impact on the company operating results and its ability to achieve its business objectives. robust demand for the company air transportation services depends largely on favorable economic conditions, including the strength of the domestic and foreign economies, low unemployment levels, strong consumer confidence levels and the availability of consumer and business credit. air transportation is often a discretionary purchase that leisure travelers may limit or eliminate during difficult economic times. in addition, during periods of unfavorable economic conditions, business travelers usually reduce the volume of their travel, either due to cost-saving initiatives or as a result of decreased business activity requiring travel. during such periods, the company business and results of operations may be adversely affected due to significant declines in industry passenger demand, particularly with respect to the company business and premium cabin travelers, and a reduction in fare levels. stagnant or weakening global economic conditions either in the united states or in other geographic regions, and any future volatility in u.s. and global financial and credit markets may have a material adverse effect on the company revenues, results of operations and liquidity. if such economic conditions were to disrupt capital markets in the future, the company may be unable to obtain financing on acceptable terms (or at all) to refinance certain maturing debt and to satisfy future capital commitments. in addition, significant or volatile changes in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and other currencies may have a material adverse impact upon the company liquidity, revenues, costs and operating results. the airline industry is highly competitive and susceptible to price discounting and changes in capacity, which could have a material adverse effect on the company. the u.s. airline industry is characterized by substantial price competition including from low-cost carriers. the significant market presence of low-cost carriers, which engage in substantial price discounting, may diminish our ability to achieve sustained profitability on domestic and international routes. airlines also compete for market share by increasing or decreasing their capacity, including route systems and the number of markets served. several of the company domestic and international competitors have increased their international capacity by including service to some destinations that the company currently serves, causing overlap in destinations served and therefore increasing competition for those destinations. in addition, the company has implemented significant capacity reductions in recent years in response to high and volatile fuel prices and stagnant global economic growth. this increased competition in both domestic and international markets may have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. 11 terrorist attacks or international hostilities, or the fear of terrorist attacks or hostilities, even if not made directly on the airline industry, could negatively affect the company and the airline industry. the terrorist attacks on september 11, 2001 involving commercial aircraft severely and adversely impacted the company financial condition and results of operations, as well as the prospects for the airline industry. among the effects experienced from the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks were substantial flight disruption costs caused by the faa-imposed temporary grounding of the u.s. airline industry fleet, significantly increased security costs and associated passenger inconvenience, increased insurance costs, substantially higher ticket refunds and significantly decreased traffic and passenger revenue. additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of or the precautions taken in anticipation of such attacks (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights) could materially and adversely affect the company and the airline industry. wars and other international hostilities could also have a material adverse impact on the company financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. the company financial resources may not be sufficient to absorb the adverse effects of any future terrorist attacks or other international hostilities. a significant data breach or the company inability to comply with legislative or regulatory standards may adversely affect the company business. the company is subject to increasing legislative, regulatory and customer focus on privacy issues and data security. a number of the company commercial partners, including credit card companies, have imposed data security standards that the company must meet and these standards continue to evolve. the company will continue its efforts to meet new and increasing privacy and security standards; however, it is possible that certain new standards may be difficult to meet and could increase the company costs. additionally, any compromise of the company technology systems could result in the loss, disclosure, misappropriation of or access to customers , employees or business partners information. any such loss, disclosure, misappropriation or access could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information. any significant data breach or the company failure to comply with applicable u.s. and foreign privacy or data security regulations or security standards imposed by the company commercial partners may adversely affect the company reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. the company relies heavily on technology and automated systems to operate its business and any significant failure or disruption of the technology or these systems could materially harm its business. the company depends on automated systems and technology to operate its business, including computerized airline reservation systems, flight operations systems, revenue management systems, accounting systems, telecommunication systems and commercial websites, including www.united.com. united website and other automated systems must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic, maintain secure information and deliver important flight and schedule information, as well as process critical financial transactions. these systems could suffer substantial or repeated disruptions due to various events, some of which are beyond the company control, including natural disasters, power failures, terrorist attacks, equipment or software failures, computer viruses or cyber security attacks. substantial or repeated systems failures or disruptions, including failures or disruptions related to the company complex integration of systems, could reduce the attractiveness of the company services versus those of its competitors, materially impair its ability to market its services and operate its flights, result in the unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, result in increased costs, lost revenue and the loss or compromise of important data, and may adversely affect the company business, results of operations and financial condition. current or future litigation and regulatory actions could have a material adverse impact on the company. from time to time, we are subject to litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings relating to our business or investigations or other actions by governmental agencies, including as described in part i, item 3 legal 12 proceedings of this annual report. no assurances can be given that the results of these or new matters will be favorable to us. an adverse resolution of lawsuits, arbitrations, investigations or other proceedings or actions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, including as a result of non-monetary remedies. defending ourselves in these matters may be time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations and may result in significant expense and a diversion of management time and attention from the operation of our business, which could impede our ability to achieve our business objectives. additionally, any amount that we may be required to pay to satisfy a judgment, settlement, fine or penalty may not be covered by insurance. under our charter and certain indemnification agreements that we have entered into (and may in the future enter into) with our officers, directors and certain third parties, we could be required to indemnify and advance expenses to them in connection with their involvement in certain actions, suits, investigations and other proceedings. there can be no assurance that any of these payments will not be material. disruptions to the company regional network and united express flights provided by third-party regional carriers could adversely affect the company operations and financial condition. the company has contractual relationships with various regional carriers to provide regional jet and turboprop service branded as united express. these regional operations are an extension of the company mainline network and complement the company operations by carrying traffic that connects to mainline service and allows flights to smaller cities that cannot be provided economically with mainline aircraft. the company business and operations are dependent on its regional flight network, with regional capacity accounting for approximately 12% of the company total as of december 31, 2015. although the company has agreements with its regional carriers that include contractually agreed performance metrics, the company does not control the operations of these carriers. a number of factors may impact the company regional network, including weather-related effects and seasonality. in addition, the decrease in qualified pilots driven by federal regulations has adversely impacted and could continue to affect the company regional flying. for example, the faa expansion of minimum pilot qualification standards, including a requirement that a pilot have at least 1,500 total flight hours, as well as the faa revised pilot flight and duty time rules, effective january 2014, have contributed to an increasing need for pilots for regional carriers. the decrease in qualified pilots resulting from the regulations as well as factors including a decreased student pilot population and a shrinking u.s. military from which to hire qualified pilots, could adversely impact the company operations and financial condition, and also require the company to reduce regional carrier flying. if a significant disruption occurs to the company regional network or flights or if one or more of the regional carriers with which the company has relationships is unable to perform their obligations over an extended period of time, there could be a material adverse effect on the company business, financial condition and operations. the company business relies extensively on third-party service providers. failure of these parties to perform as expected, or interruptions in the company relationships with these providers or their provision of services to the company, could have an adverse effect on the company financial position and results of operations. the company has engaged an increasing number of third-party service providers to perform a large number of functions that are integral to its business, including regional operations, operation of customer service call centers, distribution and sale of airline seat inventory, provision of information technology infrastructure and services, transmitting or uploading of data, provision of aircraft maintenance and repairs, provision of various utilities and performance of aircraft fueling operations, among other vital functions and services. the company does not directly control these third-party service providers, although it does enter into agreements with many of them that define expected service performance. any of these third-party service providers, however, may materially fail to meet their service performance commitments to the company, may suffer disruptions to their systems that could impact their services, or the agreements with such providers may be terminated. for example, flight reservations booked by customers and travel agencies via third-party gdss may be adversely affected by disruptions in the business relationships between the company and gds operators. such disruptions, including a failure to agree upon acceptable contract terms when contracts expire or otherwise become subject to 13 renegotiation, may cause the company flight information to be limited or unavailable for display, significantly increase fees for both the company and gds users, and impair the company relationships with its customers and travel agencies. the failure of any of the company third-party service providers to perform their service obligations adequately, or other interruptions of services, may reduce the company revenues and increase its expenses, prevent the company from operating its flights and providing other services to its customers or result in adverse publicity or harm to its brand. in addition, the company business and financial performance could be materially harmed if its customers believe that its services are unreliable or unsatisfactory. the company could experience adverse publicity, harm to its brand, reduced travel demand and potential tort liability as a result of an accident, catastrophe, or incident involving its aircraft, the aircraft of its regional carriers or the aircraft of its codeshare partners, which may result in a material adverse effect on the company results of operations or financial position. an accident, catastrophe, or incident involving an aircraft that the company operates, or an aircraft that is operated by a codeshare partner or one of the company regional carriers, could have a material adverse effect on the company if such accident, catastrophe, or incident created a public perception that the company operations, or the operations of its codeshare partners or regional carriers, are not safe or reliable, or are less safe or reliable than other airlines. such public perception could in turn result in adverse publicity for the company, cause harm to the company brand and reduce travel demand on the company flights, or the flights of its codeshare partners or regional carriers. in addition, any such accident, catastrophe, or incident could expose the company to significant tort liability. although the company currently maintains liability insurance in amounts and of the type the company believes to be consistent with industry practice to cover damages arising from any such accident or catastrophe, and the company codeshare partners and regional carriers carry similar insurance and generally indemnify the company for their operations, if the company liability exceeds the applicable policy limits or the ability of another carrier to indemnify it, the company could incur substantial losses from an accident, catastrophe or incident which may result in a material adverse effect on the company results of operations or financial position. if we experience changes in, or are unable to retain, our senior management team or other key employees, our operating results could be adversely affected. much of our future success depends on the continued availability of skilled personnel with industry experience and knowledge, including our senior management team and other key employees. if we are unable to attract and retain talented, highly qualified senior management and other key employees, or if we are unable to effectively provide for the succession of senior management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, our business may be adversely affected. high and/or volatile fuel prices or significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a material adverse impact on the company strategic plans, operating results, financial position and liquidity. aircraft fuel is critical to the company operations and is one of its largest operating expenses. aircraft fuel has also been the company most volatile operating expense for the past several years. the company generally sources adequate supplies of fuel at prevailing market prices and has some ability to store fuel close to major hub locations to ensure supply continuity in the short term. timely and adequate supply of aircraft fuel depends on the continued availability of reliable fuel supply sources and delivery infrastructure. although the company has some ability to cover short-term supply and infrastructure disruptions at its major demand locations, it can neither predict nor guarantee the continued timely availability of aircraft fuel throughout the company system. market prices for aircraft fuel depend on a multitude of unpredictable factors beyond the company control. these factors include changes in global crude oil prices, aircraft fuel supply-demand balance, inventory levels and fuel production and transportation capacity, as well as indirect factors, such as geopolitical events, economic 14 growth indicators, fiscal/monetary policies, fuel tax policies and financial investments. both actual changes as well as changes in market expectations of these factors can potentially drive rapid changes in fuel price levels and price volatility. given the highly competitive nature of the airline industry, the company may not be able to increase its fares and fees sufficiently to offset the full impact of increases in fuel prices, especially if these increases are significant, rapid and sustained. further, such fare and fee increases may not be sustainable, may reduce the general demand for air travel and may also eventually impact the company strategic growth and investment plans for the future. in addition, decreases in fuel prices for an extended period may result in increased industry capacity, increased competitive actions for market share and lower fares or surcharges in general. if fuel prices were subsequently to rise quickly, there may be a lag between improvement of revenue and the adverse impact of higher fuel prices. to protect against increases in the market prices of fuel, the company may hedge a portion of its future fuel requirements. however, the company hedging program may not be successful in mitigating higher fuel costs, and any price protection provided may be limited due to choice of hedging instruments and market conditions, including breakdown of correlation between hedging instrument and market price of aircraft fuel and failure of hedge counterparties. to the extent that the company decides to hedge a portion of its future fuel requirements and uses hedge contracts that have the potential to create an obligation to pay upon settlement if fuel prices decline significantly, such hedge contracts may limit the company ability to benefit fully from lower fuel costs in the future. if fuel prices decline significantly from the levels existing at the time the company enters into a hedge contract, the company may be required to post collateral (margin) beyond certain thresholds. there can be no assurance that the company hedging arrangements will provide any particular level of protection against rises in fuel prices or that its counterparties will be able to perform under the company hedging arrangements. additionally, deterioration in the company financial condition could negatively affect its ability to enter into new hedge contracts in the future and may potentially require the company to post increased amounts of collateral under its fuel hedging agreements. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 and regulations promulgated by the commodity futures trading commission (the cftc ) require centralized clearing for over-the-counter derivatives and record-keeping and reporting requirements that are applicable to the company fuel hedge contracts. the ual board of directors ( board of directors ) has approved the company election of the cftc end-user exception, which permits the company as a non-financial end user of derivatives to hedge commercial risk and be exempt from the cftc mandatory clearing requirements. however, several of the company hedge counterparties are also subject to these requirements, which may raise the counterparties costs. those increased costs may in turn be passed on to the company, resulting in increased transaction costs to execute hedge contracts and lower credit thresholds to post collateral (margin). see note 10 to the financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this report for additional information on the company hedging programs. union disputes, employee strikes or slowdowns, and other labor-related disruptions, as well as the integration of united workforces in connection with the company merger transaction in 2010, could adversely affect the company operations and could result in increased costs that impair its financial performance. united is a highly unionized company. as of december 31, 2015, the company and its subsidiaries had approximately 84,000 active employees, of whom approximately 80% were represented by various u.s. labor organizations. the successful integration of united workforces in connection with the company merger transaction in 2010 and achievement of the anticipated benefits of the combined company depend in part on integrating employee groups and maintaining productive employee relations. in order to fully integrate the company pre-merger represented employee groups, the company must negotiate a joint collective bargaining agreement covering each combined group. the process for integrating the labor groups is governed by a combination of the rla, the mccaskill-bond amendment, and where applicable, the existing provisions of collective bargaining agreements 15 and union policies. a delay in or failure to integrate employee groups presents the potential for increased operating costs and labor disputes that could adversely affect the company operations. the company has reached joint collective bargaining agreements with the majority of its employee groups since the merger transaction in 2010 with only two groups remaining without combined collective bargaining agreements. we continue to negotiate for a joint flight attendant collective bargaining agreement and its technician and related employees are in the process of submitting a recent company proposal for ratification by its membership. the company can provide no assurance that a successful or timely resolution of these labor negotiations will be achieved. there is a risk that unions or individual employees might pursue judicial or arbitral claims arising out of changes implemented as a result of the company merger transaction in 2010. there is also a possibility that employees or unions could engage in job actions such as slowdowns, work-to-rule campaigns, sick-outs or other actions designed to disrupt the company normal operations, in an attempt to pressure the company in collective bargaining negotiations. although the rla makes such actions unlawful until the parties have been lawfully released to self-help, and the company can seek injunctive relief against premature self-help, such actions can cause significant harm even if ultimately enjoined. in addition, joint collective bargaining agreements with the company represented employee groups increase the company labor costs, which increase could be material for any applicable reporting period. see notes 15 and 16 to the financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this report for additional information on labor negotiations and costs. an outbreak of a disease or similar public health threat could have a material adverse impact on the company business, financial position and results of operations. an outbreak of a disease or similar public health threat that affects travel demand or travel behavior, or travel restrictions or reduction in the demand for air travel caused by an outbreak of a disease or similar public health threat in the future, could have a material adverse impact on the company business, financial condition and results of operations. extensive government regulation could increase the company operating costs and restrict its ability to conduct its business. airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal oversight. compliance with u.s. and international regulations imposes significant costs and may have adverse effects on the company. laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges, both domestically and internationally, have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce airline revenue. united provides air transportation under certificates of public convenience and necessity issued by the dot. if the dot altered, amended, modified, suspended or revoked these certificates, it could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the faa regulates the safety of united operations. united operates pursuant to an air carrier operating certificate issued by the faa. in january 2014, the faa more stringent pilot flight and duty time requirements under part 117 of the federal aviation regulations took effect, which has increased costs for all carriers. in july 2014, minimum qualifications took effect for air carrier first officers. these regulations impact the company and its regional partner flying, as they have caused mainline airlines to hire regional pilots, while simultaneously significantly reducing the pool of new pilots from which regional carriers themselves can hire. although this is an industry issue, it directly affects the company and requires it to reduce regional partner flying, as several regional partners have experienced difficulty flying their schedules due to reduced pilot availability. from time to time, the faa also issues orders, airworthiness directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require material expenditures or operational restrictions by the company. these faa orders and directives could include the temporary grounding of an entire aircraft type if the faa identifies design, manufacturing, maintenance or other issues requiring immediate corrective action. faa requirements cover, among other things, retirement of older aircraft, collision avoidance 16 systems, airborne windshear avoidance systems, noise abatement and other environmental concerns, aircraft operation and safety and increased inspections and maintenance procedures to be conducted on older aircraft. these faa directives or requirements could have a material adverse effect on the company. in addition, the company operations may be adversely impacted due to the existing antiquated air traffic control ( atc ) system utilized by the u.s. government. during peak travel periods in certain markets, the current atc system inability to handle atc demand has led to short-term capacity constraints imposed by government agencies and resulted in delays and disruptions of air traffic. in addition, the current system will not be able to effectively handle projected future air traffic growth. imposition of these atc constraints on a long-term basis may have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations. failure to update the atc system in a timely manner, and the substantial funding requirements of a modernized atc system that may be imposed on air carriers may have an adverse impact on the company financial condition or results of operations. access to landing and take-off rights, or slots, at several major u.s. airports and many foreign airports served by the company are, or recently have been, subject to government regulation. certain of the company major hubs are among the most congested airports in the united states and have been or could be the subject of regulatory action that might limit the number of flights and/or increase costs of operations at certain times or throughout the day. the faa may limit the company airport access by limiting the number of departure and arrival slots at high density traffic airports, which could affect the company ownership and transfer rights, and local airport authorities may have the ability to control access to certain facilities or the cost of access to their facilities, which could have an adverse effect on the company business. the faa historically has taken actions with respect to airlines slot holdings that airlines have challenged; if the faa were to take actions that adversely affect the company slot holdings, the company could incur substantial costs to preserve its slots or may lose slots. further, the company operating costs at airports, including the company major hubs, may increase significantly because of capital improvements at such airports that the company may be required to fund, directly or indirectly. such costs could be imposed by the relevant airport authority without the company approval and may have a material adverse effect on the company financial condition. the ability of carriers to operate flights on international routes between the united states and other countries may be subject to change. applicable arrangements between the united states and foreign governments may be amended from time to time, government policies with respect to airport operations may be revised, and the availability of appropriate slots or facilities may change. the company currently operates a number of flights on international routes under government arrangements, regulations or policies that designate the number of carriers permitted to operate on such routes, the capacity of the carriers providing services on such routes, the airports at which carriers may operate international flights, or the number of carriers allowed access to particular airports. any further limitations, additions or modifications to such arrangements, regulations or policies could have a material adverse effect on the company financial position and results of operations. additionally, a change in law, regulation or policy for any of the company international routes, such as open skies, could have a material adverse impact on the company financial position and results of operations and could result in the impairment of material amounts of related tangible and intangible assets. in addition, competition from revenue-sharing joint ventures and other alliance arrangements by and among other airlines could impair the value of the company business and assets on the open skies routes. the company plans to enter into or expand u.s. antitrust immunized alliances and joint ventures on various international routes are subject to receipt of approvals from applicable u.s. federal authorities and obtaining other applicable foreign government clearances or satisfying the necessary applicable regulatory requirements. there can be no assurance that such approvals and clearances will be granted or will continue in effect upon further regulatory review or that changes in regulatory requirements or standards can be satisfied. many aspects of the company operations are also subject to increasingly stringent federal, state, local and international laws protecting the environment. future environmental regulatory developments, such as climate change regulations in the united states and abroad could adversely affect operations and increase operating costs in the airline industry. there are certain climate change laws and regulations that have already gone into effect 17 and that apply to the company, including the european union emissions trading scheme, the state of california ghg cap and trade regulations, environmental taxes for certain international flights, limited ghg reporting requirements and land-use planning laws which could apply to airports and could affect airlines in certain circumstances. in addition, there is the potential for additional regulatory actions in regard to the emission of ghgs by the aviation industry. the precise nature of future requirements and their applicability to the company are difficult to predict, but the financial impact to the company and the aviation industry would likely be adverse and could be significant. in 2016, the u.s. congress will continue to consider legislation to reauthorize the faa, which encompasses all significant aviation tax and policy related issues. as with previous reauthorization legislation, the u.s. congress may consider a range of policy changes that could impact the company operations and costs. see part i, item 1, business industry regulation, of this report for additional information on government regulation impacting the company. the airline industry may undergo further change with respect to alliances and joint ventures, either of which could have a material adverse effect on the company. the company faces and may continue to face strong competition from other carriers due to the modification of alliances and formation of new joint ventures. carriers may improve their competitive positions through airline alliances, slot swaps and/or joint ventures. certain types of airline joint ventures further competition by allowing multiple airlines to coordinate routes, pool revenues and costs, and enjoy other mutual benefits, achieving many of the benefits of consolidation. open skies agreements, including the agreements between the united states and the european union and between the united states and japan, may also give rise to better integration opportunities among international carriers. movement of airlines between current global airline alliances could reduce joint network coverage for members of such alliances while also creating opportunities for joint ventures and bilateral alliances that did not exist before such realignment. there is ongoing speculation that further airline and airline alliance consolidations or reorganizations could occur in the future, especially if new open skies agreements between brazil and the united states and mexico and the united states are fully implemented. the company routinely engages in analysis and discussions regarding its own strategic position, including current and potential alliances, asset acquisitions and divestitures and may have future discussions with other airlines regarding strategic activities. if other airlines participate in such activities, those airlines may significantly improve their cost structures or revenue generation capabilities, thereby potentially making them stronger competitors of the company and potentially impairing the company ability to realize expected benefits from its own strategic relationships. inadequate liquidity or a negative impact on the company liquidity from factors beyond the company control may have a material adverse effect on the company financial position and business. the company has a significant amount of financial leverage from fixed obligations, including aircraft lease and debt financings, leases of airport property and other facilities, and other material cash obligations. in addition, the company has substantial noncancelable commitments for capital expenditures, including for the acquisition of new aircraft and related spare engines. although the company cash flows from operations and its available capital, including the proceeds from financing transactions, have been sufficient to meet these obligations and commitments to date, the company future liquidity could be negatively affected by the risk factors discussed in this item 1a., including, but not limited to, substantial volatility in the price of fuel, adverse economic conditions, disruptions in the global capital markets and catastrophic external events. if the company liquidity is constrained due to the various risk factors noted in this item 1a. or otherwise, the company might not be able to timely pay its debts or comply with certain operating and financial covenants under its financing and credit card processing agreements or with other material provisions of its contractual obligations. these covenants require the company or united, as applicable, to maintain minimum liquidity and/ 18 or minimum collateral coverage ratios, depending on the particular agreement. the company ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond its control, including the overall industry revenue environment, the level of fuel costs and the appraised value of certain collateral. if the company does not timely pay its debts or comply with such covenants, a variety of adverse consequences could result. these potential adverse consequences include an increase of required reserves under credit card processing agreements, withholding of credit card sale proceeds by its credit card service providers, loss of undrawn lines of credit, the occurrence of one or more events of default under the relevant agreements, the acceleration of the maturity of debt and/or the exercise of other remedies by its creditors and equipment lessors that could result in a material adverse effect on the company financial position and results of operations. the company cannot provide assurance that it would have sufficient liquidity to repay or refinance such debt if it were accelerated. in addition, an event of default or acceleration of debt under certain of its financing agreements could result in one or more events of default under certain of the company other financing agreements due to cross default and cross acceleration provisions. furthermore, constrained liquidity may limit the company ability to withstand competitive pressures and downturns in the travel business and the economy in general. the company substantial level of indebtedness and non-investment grade credit rating, as well as market conditions and the availability of assets as collateral for loans or other indebtedness, may make it difficult for the company to raise additional capital if needed to meet its liquidity needs on acceptable terms, or at all. see part ii, item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, of this report for additional information regarding the company liquidity. increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage may materially and adversely impact the company results of operations and financial condition. the company could be exposed to significant liability or loss if its property or operations were to be affected by a natural catastrophe or other event, including aircraft accidents. if the company is unable to obtain sufficient insurance (including but not limited to aviation hull and liability insurance, workers compensation, and property and business interruption coverage) to cover such liabilities or losses, whether due to insurance market conditions or otherwise, its results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. following the terrorist attacks on september 11, 2001, the company insurance costs increased significantly and the availability of third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance decreased significantly. from september 2001 through may 2014, the company obtained third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance through a faa-administered program. in anticipation of the government discontinuing this program, effective may 2014, the company terminated its faa-administered insurance and returned to the commercial insurance markets to obtain third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance. the government subsequently discontinued the faa-administered program in december 2014. if the company is unable in the future to obtain third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance with acceptable terms, or if the coverage obtained is insufficient relative to actual liability or losses that the company experiences, its results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. the company results of operations fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors associated with the airline industry. due to greater demand for air travel during the spring and summer months, revenues in the airline industry in the second and third quarters of the year are generally stronger than revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year, which are periods of lower travel demand. the company results of operations generally reflect this seasonality, but have also been impacted by numerous other factors that are not necessarily seasonal including, among others, the imposition of excise and similar taxes, extreme or severe weather, atc control congestion, geological events, natural disasters, changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation, 19 general economic conditions and other factors. as a result, the company quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year and historical operating results in a quarterly or annual period are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. the company may never realize the full value of its intangible assets or its long-lived assets causing it to record impairments that may negatively affect its financial position and results of operations. in accordance with applicable accounting standards, the company is required to test its indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis on october 1 of each year, or more frequently if conditions indicate that an impairment may have occurred. in addition, the company is required to test certain of its other assets for impairment if conditions indicate that an impairment may have occurred. the company may be required to recognize impairments in the future due to, among other factors, extreme fuel price volatility, tight credit markets, a decline in the fair value of certain tangible or intangible assets, unfavorable trends in historical or forecasted results of operations and cash flows and an uncertain economic environment, as well as other uncertainties. the company can provide no assurance that a material impairment charge of tangible or intangible assets will not occur in a future period. the value of the company aircraft could be impacted in future periods by changes in supply and demand for these aircraft. such changes in supply and demand for certain aircraft types could result from grounding of aircraft by the company or other carriers. an impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on the company financial position and results of operations. the company ability to use its net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for u.s. federal income tax purposes may be significantly limited due to various circumstances, including certain possible future transactions involving the sale or issuance of ual common stock, or if taxable income does not reach sufficient levels. as of december 31, 2015, ual reported consolidated federal net operating loss ( nol ) carryforwards of approximately $8.0 billion. the company ability to use its nol carryforwards may be limited if it experiences an ownership change as defined in section 382 ( section 382 ) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended. an ownership change generally occurs if certain stockholders increase their aggregate percentage ownership of a corporation stock by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest percentage ownership at any time during the testing period, which is generally the three-year period preceding any potential ownership change. there is no assurance that the company will not experience a future ownership change under section 382 that may significantly limit or possibly eliminate its ability to use its nol carryforwards. potential future transactions involving the sale or issuance of ual common stock, including the exercise of conversion options under the terms of any convertible debt that ual may issue in the future, the repurchase of such debt with ual common stock, any issuance of ual common stock for cash and the acquisition or disposition of such stock by a stockholder owning 5% or more of ual common stock, or a combination of such transactions, may increase the possibility that the company will experience a future ownership change under section 382. under section 382, a future ownership change would subject the company to additional annual limitations that apply to the amount of pre-ownership change nols that may be used to offset post-ownership change taxable income. this limitation is generally determined by multiplying the value of a corporation stock immediately before the ownership change by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate. any unused annual limitation may, subject to certain limits, be carried over to later years, and the limitation may under certain circumstances be increased by built-in gains in the assets held by such corporation at the time of the ownership change. this limitation could cause the company u.s. federal income taxes to be greater, or to be paid earlier, than they otherwise would be, and could cause all or a portion of the company nol carryforwards to expire unused. similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes. the company ability to use its nol 20 carryforwards will also depend on the amount of taxable income it generates in future periods. its nol carryforwards may expire before the company can generate sufficient taxable income to use them in full. ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation limits certain transfers of its stock, which limits are intended to preserve our ability to use our nol carryforwards, and these limits could have an effect on the market price of ual common stock. to reduce the risk of a potential adverse effect on the company ability to use its nol carryforwards for federal income tax purposes, ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains a 5% ownership limitation. this limitation generally remains effective until february 1, 2017, or until such later date as may be approved by the board of directors in its sole discretion. the limitation prohibits (i) an acquisition by a single stockholder of shares that results in that stockholder owning 5% or more of ual common stock and (ii) any acquisition or disposition of common stock by a stockholder that already owns 5% or more of ual common stock, unless prior written approval is granted by the board of directors. any transfer of common stock in violation of these restrictions will be void and will be treated as if such transfer never occurred. this provision of ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation may impair or prevent a sale of common stock by a stockholder and adversely affect the price at which a stockholder can sell ual common stock. in addition, this limitation may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the company, creating a perception that a change in control cannot occur or otherwise discouraging takeover attempts that some stockholders may consider beneficial, which could also adversely affect the market price of the ual common stock. the company cannot predict the effect that this provision in ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation may have on the market price of the ual common stock. for additional information regarding the 5% ownership limitation, please refer to ual amended and restated certificate of incorporation available on the investor relations section of the company website at http://ir.united.com. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rates. our net income (loss) is affected by fluctuations in interest rates (e.g. interest expense on variable rate debt and interest income earned on short-term investments). the company policy is to manage interest rate risk through a combination of fixed and variable rate debt. the following table summarizes information related to the company interest rate market risk at december 31 (in millions): 2015 2014 variable rate debt carrying value of variable rate debt at december 31 $ 2,345 $ 2,495 (a) impact of 100 basis point increase on projected interest expense for the following year 23 24 fixed rate debt carrying value of fixed rate debt at december 31 8,552 8,771 (a) fair value of fixed rate debt at december 31 9,022 9,971 impact of 100 basis point increase in market rates on fair value (369) (385) (a) 2014 amount differs from the amount reported in the company form 10-k for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2014 due to the adoption of an accounting standard update in 2015. see note 1(t) to the financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this report for additional information. a change in market interest rates would also impact interest income earned on our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. assuming our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments remain at their average 2015 levels, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in a corresponding increase in the company interest income of approximately $54 million during 2016. commodity price risk (aircraft fuel). the price level of aircraft fuel can significantly affect the company operations, results of operations, financial position and liquidity. to protect against increases in the prices of aircraft fuel, the company may hedge a portion of its future fuel requirements. the company may restructure hedges in response to market conditions prior to their original settlement dates which may result in changes in hedge coverage levels and the potential recognition of gains or losses on such hedge contracts. the company generally uses financial hedge instruments including fixed-price swaps, purchased call options, and commonly used combinations using put and call options including collars (a sold put option combined with a purchased call option), three-ways (a collar with a higher strike sold call option) and four-way collars (a collar with a higher strike sold call option and a lower strike purchased put option). these hedge instruments are generally based on aircraft fuel or closely related commodities including diesel fuel and crude oil. 50 if the prices of the underlying commodity drop and stay below specified floor prices in some hedge contracts such as fixed-price swaps and collars, the company may incur losses. however, the negative impact of these losses would be significantly outweighed by the benefit of lower aircraft fuel cost since the company typically hedges only a portion of its future fuel requirements. in addition, the company continually monitors its portfolio of hedge contracts and may take actions to curtail or limit its losses from such hedge contracts if market conditions change. if fuel prices decline significantly from the levels existing at the time we enter into a hedge contract, we may be required to post collateral (margin) with our hedge counterparties. the company frequently monitors this margin risk and assesses the potential of depositing additional collateral with each of its counterparties. at times, when the fair market value of the company hedge contracts is net positive to the company, it is exposed to the event of non-performance by the counterparty to the hedge contract. the company periodically monitors the credit worthiness of its counterparties, requires its counterparties to post collateral above certain thresholds and generally limits its exposure to any single counterparty. the company may adjust its hedging program based on changes in market conditions. the following table summarizes information related to the company cost of fuel and hedging (in millions, except percentages): fuel costs in 2015, fuel cost as a percent of total operating expenses (a) 23% impact of $1 increase in price per barrel of aircraft fuel on annual fuel expense (b) $ 94 fuel hedges liability fair value at december 31, 2015 (c) $ 124 increase in fuel hedge liability that would result from a concurrent 10% decrease in forward prices of the underlying commodities of fuel hedges (d) $ 13 collateral deposited with fuel hedge counterparties as of december 31, 2015 $ 26 additional collateral the company would be required to deposit with fuel hedge counterparties upon a concurrent 10% decrease in forward prices of the underlying commodities of fuel hedges (e) $ 5 (a) includes related taxes and fuel hedge impacts and excludes special charges. in 2014, the company fuel cost was 32% of total operating expenses. (b) based on 2016 projected fuel consumption. does not include the impact of fuel hedges. (c) as of december 31, 2014, the net fair value of the company fuel hedges was a liability of $717 million. (d) based on fuel hedge positions at december 31, 2015. (e) assumes instantaneous change in prices. as of december 31, 2015, the company had hedged approximately 17% of its projected fuel requirements (652 million gallons) for 2016, with commonly used financial hedge instruments based on aircraft fuel or crude oil. as of december 31, 2015, the company had fuel hedges expiring through december 2016. 51 the fuel hedge portfolio is comprised of many individual hedge contracts (primarily option contracts) on multiple underlying commodities and entered into at various points in time, resulting in a wide range of strike prices with several hedge counterparties. the table below provides a view of the economic impact of the hedge portfolio on the company 2016 fuel costs given significant moves (up to +/-30%) in market fuel prices from december 31, 2015 (in millions). year ending december 31, 2016 change in market fuel prices (a) (increase) decrease to unhedged fuel cost (b) hedge gain (loss) (c) net (increase) decrease to fuel cost 30% $(1,351) $95 $(1,256) 20% (900) 71 (829) 10% (450) 34 (416) (10)% 450 (13) 437 (20)% 900 (25) 875 (30)% 1,351 (37) 1,314 (a) projected using equal shifts in spot and forward prices for aircraft fuel and crude oil underlying hedge contracts from december 31, 2015 levels. (b) projection based on a price of $1.14 per gallon, excluding taxes and other delivery costs and estimated consumption of 3.95 billion gallons for the year ending december 31, 2016. (c) change in projected cash gain/(loss) on existing fuel derivatives as of december 31, 2015. includes all fuel derivatives whether or not the fuel derivatives are designated for hedge accounting. foreign currency. the company generates revenues and incurs expenses in numerous foreign currencies. changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact the company results of operations through changes in the dollar value of foreign currency-denominated operating revenues and expenses. some of the company more significant foreign currency exposures include the canadian dollar, chinese renminbi, european euro, british pound and japanese yen. at times, the company uses derivative financial instruments, such as options, collars and forward contracts, to hedge its exposure to foreign currency. at december 31, 2015, the company had foreign currency derivative contracts in place to hedge european euro denominated sales. the notional amount of the hedges equates to 18% of the company projected european euro denominated net cash inflows for 2016. net cash relates primarily to passenger ticket sales inflows partially offset by expenses paid in local currencies. at december 31, 2015, the fair value of the company foreign currency derivatives was not material to the company financial statements. the result of a uniform 10 percent strengthening in the value of the u.s. dollar from december 31, 2015 levels relative to each of the currencies in which the company has foreign currency exposure would result in a decrease in pre-tax income of approximately $236 million for the year ending december 31, 2016. this sensitivity analysis was prepared based upon projected 2016 foreign currency-denominated revenues and expenses as of december 31, 2015 and reflects the potential benefit of the european euro hedges mentioned above. 52risk factors 10 risk factors. the following risk factors should be read carefully when evaluating the company business and the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other statements the company or its representatives make from time to time. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect the company business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. global economic, political and industry conditions constantly change and unfavorable conditions may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company business and results of operations are significantly impacted by global economic and industry conditions. the airline industry is highly cyclical, and the level of demand for air travel is correlated to the strength of the u.s. and global economies. the company is a global business with operations outside of the united states from which it derives significant operating revenues. the company international operations are a vital part of its worldwide airline network. volatile economic, political and market conditions in these international regions may have a negative impact on the company operating results and its ability to achieve its business objectives. robust demand for the company air transportation services depends largely on favorable economic conditions, including the strength of the domestic and foreign economies, low unemployment levels, strong consumer confidence levels and the availability of consumer and business credit. air transportation is often a discretionary purchase that leisure travelers may limit or eliminate during difficult economic times. in addition, during periods of unfavorable economic conditions, business travelers usually reduce the volume of their travel, either due to cost-saving initiatives or as a result of decreased business activity requiring travel. during such periods, the company business and results of operations may be adversely affected due to significant declines in industry passenger demand, particularly with respect to the company business and premium cabin travelers, and a reduction in fare levels. stagnant or weakening global economic conditions either in the united states or in other geographic regions, and any future volatility in u.s. and global financial and credit markets may have a material adverse effect on the company revenues, results of operations and liquidity. if such economic conditions were to disrupt capital markets in the future, the company may be unable to obtain financing on acceptable terms (or at all) to refinance certain maturing debt and to satisfy future capital commitments. recently, united kingdom ( uk ) voters voted for the uk to exit the european union (the eu ), a non-binding referendum that, if passed into law, could adversely affect european and worldwide economic and market conditions and could contribute to instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets, including volatility in the value of the british pound and european euro, additional travel restrictions on passengers traveling between the uk and other eu countries and legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations. these adverse effects in european market conditions could negatively impact the company business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, significant or volatile changes in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and other currencies may have a material adverse impact upon the company liquidity, revenues, costs and operating results. the airline industry is highly competitive and susceptible to price discounting and changes in capacity, which could have a material adverse effect on the company. the u.s. airline industry is characterized by substantial price competition including from low-cost carriers. the significant market presence of low-cost carriers, which engage in substantial price discounting, may diminish our ability to achieve sustained profitability on domestic and international routes. airlines also compete for market share by increasing or decreasing their capacity, including route systems and the number of markets served. several of the company domestic and international competitors have increased 10 table of contents their international capacity by including service to some destinations that the company currently serves, causing overlap in destinations served and therefore increasing competition for those destinations. this increased competition in both domestic and international markets may have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. terrorist attacks or international hostilities, or the fear of terrorist attacks or hostilities, even if not made directly on the airline industry, could negatively affect the company and the airline industry. the terrorist attacks on september 11, 2001 involving commercial aircraft severely and adversely impacted the company financial condition and results of operations, as well as the prospects for the airline industry. among the effects experienced from the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks were substantial flight disruption costs caused by the faa-imposed temporary grounding of the u.s. airline industry fleet, significantly increased security costs and associated passenger inconvenience, increased insurance costs, substantially higher ticket refunds and significantly decreased traffic and passenger revenue. additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of or the precautions taken in anticipation of such attacks (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights) could materially and adversely affect the company and the airline industry. wars and other international hostilities could also have a material adverse impact on the company financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. the company financial resources may not be sufficient to absorb the adverse effects of any future terrorist attacks or other international hostilities. increasing privacy and data security obligations or a significant data breach may adversely affect the company business. the company is subject to increasing legislative, regulatory and customer focus on privacy issues and data security. also, a number of the company commercial partners, including credit card companies, have imposed data security standards that the company must meet and these standards continue to evolve. the company will continue its efforts to meet its privacy and data security obligations; however, it is possible that certain new obligations may be difficult to meet and could increase the company costs. additionally, the company must manage evolving cybersecurity risks. the loss, disclosure, misappropriation of or access to customers , employees or business partners information or the company failure to meet its obligations could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties. a significant data breach or the company failure to meet its obligations may adversely affect the company reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. the company relies heavily on technology and automated systems to operate its business and any significant failure or disruption of the technology or these systems could materially harm its business. the company depends on automated systems and technology to operate its business, including computerized airline reservation systems, flight operations systems, revenue management systems, accounting systems, telecommunication systems and commercial websites, including www.united.com. united website and other automated systems must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic, maintain secure information and deliver important flight and schedule information, as well as process critical financial transactions. these systems could suffer substantial or repeated disruptions due to various events, some of which are beyond the company control, including natural disasters, power failures, terrorist attacks, equipment or software failures, computer viruses or cyber security attacks. substantial or repeated systems failures or disruptions, including failures or disruptions related to the company complex integration of systems, could reduce the attractiveness of the company services versus those of its competitors, materially impair its ability to market its services and operate its flights, result in the unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, result in increased costs, lost revenue and the loss or compromise of important data, and may adversely affect the company business, results of operations and financial condition. 11 table of contents current or future litigation and regulatory actions, or failure to comply with the terms of any settlement, order or arrangement relating to these actions, could have a material adverse impact on the company. from time to time, we are subject to litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings relating to our business or investigations or other actions by governmental agencies, including as described in part i, item 3 legal proceedings of this annual report on form 10-k. no assurances can be given that the results of these or new matters will be favorable to us. an adverse resolution of lawsuits, arbitrations, investigations or other proceedings or actions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, including as a result of non-monetary remedies. defending ourselves in these matters may be time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations and may result in significant expense and a diversion of management time and attention from the operation of our business, which could impede our ability to achieve our business objectives. additionally, any amount that we may be required to pay to satisfy a judgment, settlement, fine or penalty may not be covered by insurance. if we fail to comply with the terms contained in any settlement, order or agreement with a governmental authority relating to these matters, we could be subject to criminal or civil penalties, which could have a material adverse impact on the company. under our charter and certain indemnification agreements that we have entered into (and may in the future enter into) with our officers, directors and certain third parties, we could be required to indemnify and advance expenses to them in connection with their involvement in certain actions, suits, investigations and other proceedings. there can be no assurance that any of these payments will not be material. disruptions to the company regional network and united express flights provided by third-party regional carriers could adversely affect the company operations and financial condition. the company has contractual relationships with various regional carriers to provide regional jet and turboprop service branded as united express. these regional operations are an extension of the company mainline network and complement the company operations by carrying traffic that connects to mainline service and allows flights to smaller cities that cannot be provided economically with mainline aircraft. the company business and operations are dependent on its regional flight network, with regional capacity accounting for approximately 11% of the company total capacity as of december 31, 2016. although the company has agreements with its regional carriers that include contractually agreed performance metrics, the company does not control the operations of these carriers. a number of factors may impact the company regional network, including weather-related effects and seasonality. in addition, the decrease in qualified pilots driven by federal regulations has adversely impacted and could continue to affect the company regional flying. for example, the faa expansion of minimum pilot qualification standards, including a requirement that a pilot have at least 1,500 total flight hours, as well as the faa revised pilot flight and duty time rules, effective january 2014, have contributed to a smaller supply of pilots available to regional carriers. the decrease in qualified pilots resulting from the regulations as well as factors including a decreased student pilot population and a shrinking u.s. military from which to hire qualified pilots, could adversely impact the company operations and financial condition, and also require the company to reduce regional carrier flying. if a significant disruption occurs to the company regional network or flights or if one or more of the regional carriers with which the company has relationships is unable to perform their obligations over an extended period of time, there could be a material adverse effect on the company business, financial condition and operations. the company business relies extensively on third-party service providers. failure of these parties to perform as expected, or interruptions in the company relationships with these providers or their provision of services to the company, could have an adverse effect on the company financial position and results of operations. the company has engaged third-party service providers to perform a large number of functions that are integral to its business, including regional operations, operation of customer service call centers, distribution and sale of airline seat inventory, provision of information technology infrastructure and services, transmitting or uploading of data, provision of aircraft maintenance and repairs, provision of various utilities and performance of aircraft 12 table of contents fueling operations, among other vital functions and services. the company does not directly control these third-party service providers, although it does enter into agreements with most of them that define expected service performance. any of these third-party service providers, however, may materially fail to meet their service performance commitments to the company, may suffer disruptions to their systems that could impact their services, or the agreements with such providers may be terminated. for example, flight reservations booked by customers and travel agencies via third-party gdss may be adversely affected by disruptions in the business relationships between the company and gds operators. such disruptions, including a failure to agree upon acceptable contract terms when contracts expire or otherwise become subject to renegotiation, may cause the company flight information to be limited or unavailable for display, significantly increase fees for both the company and gds users and impair the company relationships with its customers and travel agencies. the failure of any of the company third-party service providers to perform their service obligations adequately, or other interruptions of services, may reduce the company revenues and increase its expenses, prevent the company from operating its flights and providing other services to its customers or result in adverse publicity or harm to its brand. in addition, the company business and financial performance could be materially harmed if its customers believe that its services are unreliable or unsatisfactory. orders for new aircraft typically must be placed years in advance of scheduled deliveries, and changes in the company route network over time may make aircraft on order less economic for the company, but any modification or termination of such orders could result in material liability for the company. the company orders for new aircraft are typically made years in advance of actual delivery of such aircraft, and the financial commitment required for purchases of new aircraft is substantial. at december 31, 2016, the company had firm commitments to purchase 257 new aircraft from the boeing company ( boeing ), airbus s.a.s ( airbus ) and embraer s.a. ( embraer ), as well as related agreements with engine manufacturers, maintenance providers and others. at december 31, 2016, the company commitments relating to the acquisition of aircraft and related spare engines, aircraft improvements and other related obligations aggregated $23.6 billion. subsequent to the company placing an order for new aircraft, the company route network may change, such that the aircraft on order become less economic to operate flights in the company network. as a result, the company preference for a particular aircraft that it has ordered, often years in advance, may be decreased or eliminated. if the company were to seek to modify or terminate its existing aircraft order commitments, it may be responsible for material obligations to its counterparties arising from any such change. however, the company expects that any such change that it makes would be in the long-term best economic interest of the company. the company could experience adverse publicity, harm to its brand, reduced travel demand and potential tort liability as a result of an accident, catastrophe, or incident involving its aircraft, the aircraft of its regional carriers or the aircraft of its codeshare partners, which may result in a material adverse effect on the company results of operations or financial position. an accident, catastrophe, or incident involving an aircraft that the company operates, or an aircraft that is operated by a codeshare partner or one of the company regional carriers, could have a material adverse effect on the company if such accident, catastrophe, or incident created a public perception that the company operations, or the operations of its codeshare partners or regional carriers, are not safe or reliable, or are less safe or reliable than other airlines. such public perception could in turn result in adverse publicity for the company, cause harm to the company brand and reduce travel demand on the company flights, or the flights of its codeshare partners or regional carriers. in addition, any such accident, catastrophe, or incident could expose the company to significant tort liability. although the company currently maintains liability insurance in amounts and of the type the company believes to be consistent with industry practice to cover damages arising from any such accident or catastrophe, and the company codeshare partners and regional carriers carry similar insurance and generally indemnify the 13 table of contents company for their operations, if the company liability exceeds the applicable policy limits or the ability of another carrier to indemnify it, the company could incur substantial losses from an accident, catastrophe or incident which may result in a material adverse effect on the company results of operations or financial position. if we experience changes in, or are unable to retain, our senior management team or other key employees, our operating results could be adversely affected. much of our future success depends on the continued availability of skilled personnel with industry experience and knowledge, including our senior management team and other key employees. if we are unable to attract and retain talented, highly qualified senior management and other key employees, or if we are unable to effectively provide for the succession of senior management, our business may be adversely affected. high and/or volatile fuel prices or significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a material adverse impact on the company strategic plans, operating results, financial position and liquidity. aircraft fuel is critical to the company operations and is one of its single largest operating expenses. the timely and adequate supply of fuel to meet operational demand depends on the continued availability of reliable fuel supply sources, as well as related service and delivery infrastructure. although the company has some ability to cover short-term fuel supply and infrastructure disruptions at some major demand locations, it can neither predict nor guarantee the continued timely availability of aircraft fuel throughout the company system. the company generally sources fuel at prevailing market prices. aircraft fuel has historically been the company most volatile operating expense due to the highly unpredictable nature of market prices for fuel. market prices for aircraft fuel have historically fluctuated substantially in short periods of time and continue to be highly volatile due a dependence on a multitude of unpredictable factors beyond the company control. these factors include changes in global crude oil prices, the balance between aircraft fuel supply and demand, natural disasters, prevailing inventory levels and fuel production and transportation infrastructure. prices of fuel are also impacted by indirect factors that may potentially impact fuel supply or demand balance, such as geopolitical events, economic growth indicators, fiscal/monetary policies, fuel tax policies, environmental concerns and financial investments in energy markets. both actual changes in these factors, as well as changes in market expectations of these factors can potentially drive rapid changes in fuel price levels in short periods of time. given the highly competitive nature of the airline industry, the company may not be able to increase its fares and fees sufficiently to offset the full impact of increases in fuel prices, especially if these increases are significant, rapid and sustained. further, such fare and fee increases may not be sustainable, may reduce the general demand for air travel and may also eventually impact the company strategic growth and investment plans for the future. in addition, decreases in fuel prices for an extended period of time may result in increased industry capacity, increased competitive actions for market share and lower fares or surcharges in general. if fuel prices were to then subsequently rise quickly, there may be a lag between the rise in fuel prices and any improvement of the revenue environment. to protect against increases in the market prices of fuel, the company may hedge a portion of its future fuel requirements. however, the company hedging program may not be successful in mitigating higher fuel costs, and any price protection provided may be limited due to choice of hedging instruments and market conditions, including breakdown of correlation between hedging instrument and market price of aircraft fuel and failure of hedge counterparties. to the extent that the company decides to hedge a portion of its future fuel requirements and uses hedge contracts that have the potential to create an obligation to pay upon settlement if fuel prices decline significantly, such hedge contracts may limit the company ability to benefit fully from lower fuel costs in the future. if fuel prices decline significantly from the levels existing at the time the company enters into a hedge contract, the company may be required to post collateral (margin) beyond certain thresholds. there can be no assurance that the company hedging arrangements will provide any particular level of protection against 14 table of contents rises in fuel prices or that its counterparties will be able to perform under the company hedging arrangements. additionally, deterioration in the company financial condition could negatively affect its ability to enter into new hedge contracts in the future. see note 10 to the financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this report for additional information on the company hedging activities. union disputes, employee strikes or slowdowns, and other labor-related disruptions could adversely affect the company operations and could result in increased costs that impair its financial performance. united is a highly unionized company. as of december 31, 2016, the company and its subsidiaries had approximately 88,000 active employees, of whom approximately 80% were represented by various u.s. labor organizations. there is a risk that unions or individual employees might pursue judicial or arbitral claims arising out of changes implemented as a result of the company entering into collective bargaining agreements with its represented employee groups. there is also a possibility that employees or unions could engage in job actions such as slowdowns, work-to-rule campaigns, sick-outs or other actions designed to disrupt the company normal operations, in an attempt to pressure the company in collective bargaining negotiations. although the rla makes such actions unlawful until the parties have been lawfully released to self-help, and the company can seek injunctive relief against premature self-help, such actions can cause significant harm even if ultimately enjoined. in addition, collective bargaining agreements with the company represented employee groups increase the company labor costs, which increase could be material for any applicable reporting period. see notes 15 and 16 to the financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this report for additional information on labor negotiations and costs. an outbreak of a disease or similar public health threat could have a material adverse impact on the company business, financial position and results of operations. an outbreak of a disease or similar public health threat that affects travel demand or travel behavior, or travel restrictions or reduction in the demand for air travel caused by an outbreak of a disease or similar public health threat in the future, could have a material adverse impact on the company business, financial condition and results of operations. extensive government regulation could increase the company operating costs and restrict its ability to conduct its business. airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal oversight. compliance with u.s. and international regulations imposes significant costs and may have adverse effects on the company. laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges, both domestically and internationally, have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce airline revenue. united provides air transportation under certificates of public convenience and necessity issued by the dot. if the dot altered, amended, modified, suspended or revoked these certificates, it could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the faa regulates the safety of united operations. united operates pursuant to an air carrier operating certificate issued by the faa. in january 2014, the faa more stringent pilot flight and duty time requirements under part 117 of the federal aviation regulations took effect, which has increased costs for all carriers. in july 2014, minimum qualifications took effect for air carrier first officers. these regulations will continue to impact the industry and the company for years to come, as they have caused mainline airlines to hire regional pilots, while simultaneously significantly reducing the pool of new pilots from which regional carriers themselves can hire. although this is an industry issue, it directly affects the company and requires it to reduce regional partner flying, as several regional partners have experienced difficulty flying their schedules due to reduced pilot availability. from time to time, the faa also issues orders, airworthiness 15 table of contents directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require material expenditures or operational restrictions by the company. these faa orders and directives could include the temporary grounding of an entire aircraft type if the faa identifies design, manufacturing, maintenance or other issues requiring immediate corrective action. these faa directives or requirements could have a material adverse effect on the company. in addition, the company operations may be adversely impacted due to the existing antiquated atc system utilized by the u.s. government. during peak travel periods in certain markets, the current atc system inability to handle atc demand has led to short-term capacity constraints imposed by government agencies and resulted in delays and disruptions of air traffic. in addition, the current system will not be able to effectively handle projected future air traffic growth. imposition of these atc constraints on a long-term basis may have a material adverse effect on the company operations. failure to update the atc system in a timely manner, and the substantial funding requirements of a modernized atc system that may be imposed on air carriers may have an adverse impact on the company financial condition or results of operations. access to landing and take-off rights, or slots, at several major u.s. airports and many foreign airports served by the company are, or recently have been, subject to government regulation. certain of the company major hubs are among the most congested airports in the united states and have been or could be the subject of regulatory action that might limit the number of flights and/or increase costs of operations at certain times or throughout the day. the faa may limit the company airport access by limiting the number of departure and arrival slots at high density traffic airports, which could affect the company ownership and transfer rights, and local airport authorities may have the ability to control access to certain facilities or the cost of access to their facilities, which could have an adverse effect on the company business. the faa historically has taken actions with respect to airlines slot holdings that airlines have challenged; if the faa were to take actions that adversely affect the company slot holdings, the company could incur substantial costs to preserve its slots or may lose slots. if slots are eliminated at an airport, or if the number of hours of operation governed by slots is reduced at an airport, the lack of controls on takeoffs and landings could result in greater congestion both at the affected airport or in the regional airspace (e.g., the new york city metropolitan region airspace) and could significantly impact the company operations. further, the company operating costs at airports, including the company major hubs, may increase significantly because of capital improvements at such airports that the company may be required to fund, directly or indirectly. such costs could be imposed by the relevant airport authority without the company approval and may have a material adverse effect on the company financial condition. the ability of carriers to operate flights on international routes between the united states and other countries may be subject to change. applicable arrangements between the united states and foreign governments may be amended from time to time, government policies with respect to airport operations may be revised, and the availability of appropriate slots or facilities may change. the company currently operates a number of flights on international routes under government arrangements, regulations or policies that designate the number of carriers permitted to operate on such routes, the capacity of the carriers providing services on such routes, the airports at which carriers may operate international flights, or the number of carriers allowed access to particular airports. any further limitations, additions or modifications to such arrangements, regulations or policies could have a material adverse effect on the company financial position and results of operations. additionally, a change in law, regulation or policy for any of the company international routes, such as open skies, could have a material adverse impact on the company financial position and results of operations and could result in the impairment of material amounts of related tangible and intangible assets. in addition, competition from revenue-sharing joint ventures and other alliance arrangements by and among other airlines could impair the value of the company business and assets on the open skies routes. the company plans to enter into or expand u.s. antitrust immunized alliances and joint ventures on various international routes are subject to receipt of approvals from applicable u.s. federal authorities and obtaining other applicable foreign government clearances or satisfying the necessary applicable regulatory requirements. there can be no assurance that such approvals and clearances will be granted or will continue in effect upon further regulatory review or that changes in regulatory requirements or standards can be satisfied. 16 table of contents many aspects of the company operations are also subject to increasingly stringent federal, state, local and international laws protecting the environment. future environmental regulatory developments, such as climate change regulations in the united states and abroad could adversely affect operations and increase operating costs in the airline industry. in addition, there is the potential for additional regulatory actions in regard to the emission of ghgs by the aviation industry. the precise nature of future requirements and their applicability to the company are difficult to predict, but the financial impact to the company and the aviation industry would likely be adverse and could be significant. in 2017, the u.s. congress will continue to consider legislation to reauthorize the faa, which encompasses all significant aviation tax and policy related issues. as with previous reauthorization legislation, the u.s. congress may consider a range of policy changes that could impact the company operations and costs. see part i, item 1, business industry regulation, of this report for additional information on government regulation impacting the company. the airline industry may undergo further change with respect to alliances and joint ventures or due to consolidations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the company. the company faces and may continue to face strong competition from other carriers due to the modification of alliances and formation of new joint ventures. carriers may improve their competitive positions through airline alliances, slot swaps and/or joint ventures. certain types of airline joint ventures further competition by allowing multiple airlines to coordinate routes, pool revenues and costs, and enjoy other mutual benefits, achieving many of the benefits of consolidation. open skies agreements, including the agreements between the united states and the eu and between the united states and japan, may also give rise to better integration opportunities among international carriers. movement of airlines between current global airline alliances could reduce joint network coverage for members of such alliances while also creating opportunities for joint ventures and bilateral alliances that did not exist before such realignment. there is ongoing speculation that further airline and airline alliance consolidations or reorganizations could occur in the future, especially if new open skies agreements between brazil and the united states are fully implemented. the company routinely engages in analysis and discussions regarding its own strategic position, including current and potential alliances, asset acquisitions and divestitures and may have future discussions with other airlines regarding strategic activities. if other airlines participate in such activities, those airlines may significantly improve their cost structures or revenue generation capabilities, thereby potentially making them stronger competitors of the company and potentially impairing the company ability to realize expected benefits from its own strategic relationships. insufficient liquidity may have a material adverse effect on the company financial position and business. the company has a significant amount of financial leverage from fixed obligations, including aircraft lease and debt financings, leases of airport property and other facilities, and other material cash obligations. in addition, the company has substantial noncancelable commitments for capital expenditures, including for the acquisition of new aircraft and related spare engines. although the company cash flows from operations and its available capital, including the proceeds from financing transactions, have been sufficient to meet these obligations and commitments to date, the company future liquidity could be negatively affected by the risk factors discussed in this item 1a., including, but not limited to, substantial volatility in the price of fuel, adverse economic conditions, disruptions in the global capital markets and catastrophic external events. if the company liquidity is materially diminished due to the various risk factors noted in this item 1a. or otherwise, the company might not be able to timely pay its leases and debts or comply with certain operating and financial covenants under its financing and credit card processing agreements or with other material provisions of its contractual obligations. certain of these covenants require the company or united, as applicable, to maintain minimum liquidity and/or minimum collateral coverage ratios. the company or united ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond its control, including the overall industry revenue environment, the level of fuel costs and the appraised value of the collateral. 17 table of contents if the company does not timely pay its leases and debts or comply with such covenants, a variety of adverse consequences could result. these potential adverse consequences include an increase of required reserves under credit card processing agreements, withholding of credit card sale proceeds by its credit card service providers, loss of undrawn lines of credit, the occurrence of one or more events of default under the relevant agreements, the acceleration of the maturity of debt and/or the exercise of other remedies by its creditors and equipment lessors that could result in a material adverse effect on the company financial position and results of operations. the company cannot provide assurance that it would have sufficient liquidity to repay or refinance such debt if it were accelerated. in addition, an event of default or acceleration of debt under certain of its financing agreements could result in one or more events of default under certain of the company other financing agreements due to cross default and cross acceleration provisions. furthermore, insufficient liquidity may limit the company ability to withstand competitive pressures and downturns in the travel business and the economy in general. the company substantial level of indebtedness and non-investment grade credit rating, as well as market conditions and the availability of assets as collateral for loans or other indebtedness, may make it difficult for the company to raise additional capital if needed to meet its liquidity needs on acceptable terms, or at all. see part ii, item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, of this report for additional information regarding the company liquidity. increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage may materially and adversely impact the company results of operations and financial condition. the company could be exposed to significant liability or loss if its property or operations were to be affected by a natural catastrophe or other event, including aircraft accidents. if the company is unable to obtain sufficient insurance (including but not limited to terrorism, aviation hull and liability, workers compensation and property and business interruption insurance) with acceptable terms or if the coverage obtained is insufficient relative to actual liability or losses that the company experiences, whether due to insurance market conditions or otherwise, its results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. the company results of operations fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors associated with the airline industry. due to greater demand for air travel during the spring and summer months, revenues in the airline industry in the second and third quarters of the year are generally stronger than revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year, which are periods of lower travel demand. the company results of operations generally reflect this seasonality, but have also been impacted by numerous other factors that are not necessarily seasonal including, among others, the imposition of excise and similar taxes, extreme or severe weather, atc congestion, geological events, natural disasters, changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation, general economic conditions and other factors. as a result, the company quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year and historical operating results in a quarterly or annual period are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. the company may never realize the full value of its intangible assets or its long-lived assets causing it to record impairments that may negatively affect its financial position and results of operations. in accordance with applicable accounting standards, the company is required to test its indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if conditions indicate that an impairment may have occurred. in addition, the company is required to test certain of its other assets for impairment if conditions indicate that an impairment may have occurred. the company may be required to recognize impairments in the future due to, among other factors, extreme fuel price volatility, tight credit markets, a decline in the fair value of certain tangible or intangible assets, 18 table of contents unfavorable trends in historical or forecasted results of operations and cash flows and an uncertain economic environment, as well as other uncertainties. the company can provide no assurance that a material impairment charge of tangible or intangible assets will not occur in a future period. the value of the company aircraft could be impacted in future periods by changes in supply and demand for these aircraft. such changes in supply and demand for certain aircraft types could result from grounding of aircraft by the company or other carriers. an impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on the company financial position and results of operations. the company ability to use its net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for u.s. federal income tax purposes may be significantly limited due to various circumstances, including certain possible future transactions involving the sale or issuance of ual common stock, or if taxable income does not reach sufficient levels. as of december 31, 2016, ual reported consolidated federal net operating loss ( nol ) carryforwards of approximately $4.4 billion. the company ability to use its nol carryforwards may be limited if it experiences an ownership change as defined in section 382 ( section 382 ) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended. an ownership change generally occurs if certain stockholders increase their aggregate percentage ownership of a corporation stock by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest percentage ownership at any time during the testing period, which is generally the three-year period preceding any potential ownership change. there is no assurance that the company will not experience a future ownership change under section 382 that may significantly limit or possibly eliminate its ability to use its nol carryforwards. potential future transactions involving the sale or issuance of ual common stock, including the exercise of conversion options under the terms of any convertible debt that ual may issue in the future, the repurchase of such debt with ual common stock, any issuance of ual common stock for cash, and the acquisition or disposition of such stock by a stockholder owning 5% or more of ual common stock, or a combination of such transactions, may increase the possibility that the company will experience a future ownership change under section 382. under section 382, a future ownership change would subject the company to additional annual limitations that apply to the amount of pre-ownership change nols that may be used to offset post-ownership change taxable income. this limitation is generally determined by multiplying the value of a corporation stock immediately before the ownership change by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate. any unused annual limitation may, subject to certain limits, be carried over to later years, and the limitation may under certain circumstances be increased by built-in gains in the assets held by such corporation at the time of the ownership change. this limitation could cause the company u.s. federal income taxes to be greater, or to be paid earlier, than they otherwise would be, and could cause all or a portion of the company nol carryforwards to expire unused. similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes. the company ability to use its nol carryforwards will also depend on the amount of taxable income it generates in future periods. its nol carryforwards may expire before the company can generate sufficient taxable income to use them in full. our significant investments in airlines in other parts of the world and the commercial relationships that we have with those carriers may not produce the returns or results we expect. an important part of our strategy to expand our global network includes making significant investments in airlines in other parts of the world and expanding our commercial relationships with these carriers. in 2015, we made a $100 million investment in azul linhas a&eacute;reas brasileiras s.a. ( azul ) and enhanced our commercial arrangements with azul. we expect to continue exploring similar non-controlling investments in, and entering into joint ventures, commercial agreements, loan transactions and strategic alliances with, other carriers as part of our global business strategy. these transactions and relationships (including our strategic partnership with, and investment in, azul) involve significant challenges and risks, including that we may not realize a satisfactory return on our investment, that we may not receive repayment of invested funds, that they may distract 19 table of contents management from our operations or that they may not generate the expected revenue synergies. these events could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. in addition, we are dependent on these other carriers for significant aspects of our network in the regions in which they operate. while we work closely with these carriers, we do not have control over their operations or business methods. we may be subject to consequences from any improper behavior of joint venture partners, including for failure to comply with anti-corruption laws such as the united states foreign corrupt practices act. furthermore, our relationships with these carriers may be subject to the laws and regulations of non-u.s. jurisdictions in which these carriers are located or conduct business. any political or regulatory change in these jurisdictions that negatively impact or prohibit our arrangements with these carriers could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. to the extent that the operations of any of these carriers are disrupted over an extended period of time or their actions subject us to the consequences of failure to comply with laws and regulations, our results of operations may be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rates. our net income (loss) is affected by fluctuations in interest rates (e.g. interest expense on variable rate debt and interest income earned on short-term investments). the company policy is to manage interest rate risk through a combination of fixed and variable rate debt. the following table summarizes information related to the company interest rate market risk at december 31 (in millions): 2016 2015 variable rate debt carrying value of variable rate debt at december 31 $ 2,582 $ 2,345 impact of 100 basis point increase on projected interest expense for the following year 25 23 fixed rate debt carrying value of fixed rate debt at december 31 8,185 8,552 fair value of fixed rate debt at december 31 8,469 9,022 impact of 100 basis point increase in market rates on fair value (340) (369) a change in market interest rates would also impact interest income earned on our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. assuming our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments remain at their average 46 table of contents 2016 levels, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in a corresponding increase in the company interest income of approximately $47 million during 2017. commodity price risk (aircraft fuel). the price level of aircraft fuel can significantly affect the company operations, results of operations, financial position and liquidity. since 2014, the price of jet fuel has declined but remains volatile. our operational and financial results can be significantly impacted by changes in the price and availability of aircraft fuel. to provide adequate supplies of fuel, the company routinely enters into purchase contracts that are customarily indexed to market prices for aircraft fuel, and the company generally has some ability to cover short-term fuel supply and infrastructure disruptions at some major demand locations. the price of aircraft fuel has fluctuated substantially in the past several years and in order to lower its exposure to unpredictable increases in the market prices of aircraft fuel, the company has historically hedged a portion of its planned fuel requirements. as of december 31, 2016, the company did not have any outstanding fuel hedging contracts. the company current strategy is to not enter into transactions to hedge its fuel consumption, although the company regularly reviews its policy based on market conditions and other factors. the company 2017 forecasted fuel consumption is presently approximately four billion gallons, and based on this forecast, a one dollar change in the price of a barrel of crude oil would change the company annual fuel expense by approximately $95 million. foreign currency. the company generates revenues and incurs expenses in numerous foreign currencies. changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact the company results of operations through changes in the dollar value of foreign currency-denominated operating revenues and expenses. some of the company more significant foreign currency exposures include the canadian dollar, chinese renminbi, european euro, british pound and japanese yen. the company current strategy is to not enter into transactions to hedge its foreign currency sales, although the company regularly reviews its policy based on market conditions and other factors. as of december 31, 2016, the company did not have any foreign currency derivative contracts outstanding. the last of the company foreign currency derivatives expired in december 2016. the result of a uniform 10 percent strengthening in the value of the u.s. dollar from december 31, 2016 levels relative to each of the currencies in which the company has foreign currency exposure would result in a decrease in pre-tax income of approximately $239 million for the year ending december 31, 2017. this sensitivity analysis was prepared based upon projected 2017 foreign currency-denominated revenues and expenses as of december 31, 2016. 47 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors. the following risk factors should be read carefully when evaluating the company business and the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other statements the company or its representatives make from time to time. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect the company business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. global economic, political and industry conditions constantly change and unfavorable conditions may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company business and results of operations are significantly impacted by global economic and industry conditions. the airline industry is highly cyclical, and the level of demand for air travel is correlated to the strength of the u.s. and global economies. the company is a global business with operations outside of the united states from which it derives significant operating revenues. the company international operations are a vital part of its worldwide airline network. volatile economic, political and market conditions in these international regions may have a negative impact on the company operating results and its ability to achieve its business objectives. robust demand for the company air transportation services depends largely on favorable economic conditions, including the strength of the domestic and foreign economies, low unemployment levels, strong consumer confidence levels and the availability of consumer and business credit. air transportation is often a discretionary purchase that leisure travelers may limit or eliminate during difficult economic times. in addition, during periods of unfavorable economic conditions, business travelers usually reduce the volume of their travel, either due to cost-saving initiatives or as a result of decreased business activity requiring travel. during such periods, the company business and results of operations may be adversely affected due to significant declines in industry passenger demand, particularly with respect to the company business and premium cabin travelers, and a reduction in fare levels. stagnant or weakening global economic conditions either in the united states or in other geographic regions, and any future volatility in u.s. and global financial and credit markets may have a material adverse effect on the company revenues, results of operations and liquidity. if such economic conditions were to disrupt capital markets in the future, the company may be unable to obtain financing on acceptable terms (or at all) to refinance certain maturing debt and to satisfy future capital commitments. in june 2016, united kingdom ( uk ) voters voted for the uk to exit the eu. the uk parliament voted in favor of allowing the government to commence negotiations to determine the future terms of the uk relationship with the eu, including the terms of trade between the uk and the eu and other nations. a process of negotiation is now taking place to determine the future terms of the uk relationship with the eu. depending on the outcome of these negotiations, we could face new challenges in our operations, such as instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets, including volatility in the value of the british pound and european euro, additional travel restrictions on passengers traveling between the uk and other eu countries and legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations. these adverse effects in european market conditions could negatively impact the company business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, significant or volatile changes in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and other currencies may have a material adverse impact upon the company liquidity, revenues, costs and operating results. the airline industry is highly competitive and susceptible to price discounting and changes in capacity, which could have a material adverse effect on the company. the u.s. airline industry is characterized by substantial price competition including from low-cost carriers. the significant market presence of low-cost carriers, which engage in substantial price discounting, may diminish our ability to achieve sustained profitability on domestic and international routes. 10 table of contents airlines also compete for market share by increasing or decreasing their capacity, including route systems and the number of markets served. several of the company domestic and international competitors have increased their international capacity by including service to some destinations that the company currently serves, causing overlap in destinations served and therefore increasing competition for those destinations. this increased competition in both domestic and international markets may have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. terrorist attacks or international hostilities, or the fear of terrorist attacks or hostilities, even if not made directly on the airline industry, could negatively affect the company and the airline industry. the terrorist attacks on september 11, 2001 involving commercial aircraft severely and adversely impacted the company financial condition and results of operations, as well as the prospects for the airline industry. among the effects experienced from the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks were substantial flight disruption costs caused by the faa-imposed temporary grounding of the u.s. airline industry fleet, significantly increased security costs and associated passenger inconvenience, increased insurance costs, substantially higher ticket refunds and significantly decreased traffic and passenger revenue. additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of or the precautions taken in anticipation of such attacks (including elevated national threat warnings, travel restrictions or selective cancellation or redirection of flights) could materially and adversely affect the company and the airline industry. wars and other international hostilities could also have a material adverse impact on the company financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. the company financial resources may not be sufficient to absorb the adverse effects of any future terrorist attacks or other international hostilities. increasing privacy and data security obligations or a significant data breach may adversely affect the company business. the company is subject to increasing legislative, regulatory and customer focus on privacy issues and data security. also, a number of the company commercial partners, including credit card companies, have imposed data security standards that the company must meet and these standards continue to evolve. the company will continue its efforts to meet its privacy and data security obligations; however, it is possible that certain new obligations may be difficult to meet and could increase the company costs. additionally, the company must manage evolving cybersecurity risks. the loss, disclosure, misappropriation of or access to customers , employees or business partners information or the company failure to meet its obligations could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties. a significant data breach or the company failure to meet its obligations may adversely affect the company reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. the company relies heavily on technology and automated systems to operate its business and any significant failure or disruption of the technology or these systems could materially harm its business. the company depends on automated systems and technology to operate its business, including computerized airline reservation systems, flight operations systems, revenue management systems, accounting systems, telecommunication systems and commercial websites, including www.united.com. united website and other automated systems must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic, maintain secure information and deliver important flight and schedule information, as well as process critical financial transactions. these systems could suffer substantial or repeated disruptions due to various events, some of which are beyond the company control, including natural disasters, power failures, terrorist attacks, equipment or software failures, computer viruses or cyber security attacks. substantial or repeated systems failures or disruptions, including failures or disruptions related to the company complex integration of systems, could reduce the attractiveness of the company services versus those of its competitors, materially impair its ability to market its services and operate its flights, result in the unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, result in increased costs, lost revenue and the loss or compromise of important data, and may adversely affect the company business, results of operations and financial condition. 11 table of contents current or future litigation and regulatory actions, or failure to comply with the terms of any settlement, order or arrangement relating to these actions, could have a material adverse impact on the company. from time to time, we are subject to litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings relating to our business or investigations or other actions by governmental agencies, including as described in part i, item 3, legal proceedings, of this report. no assurances can be given that the results of these or new matters will be favorable to us. an adverse resolution of lawsuits, arbitrations, investigations or other proceedings or actions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, including as a result of non-monetary remedies, and could also result in adverse publicity. defending ourselves in these matters may be time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations and may result in significant expense and a diversion of management time and attention from the operation of our business, which could impede our ability to achieve our business objectives. additionally, any amount that we may be required to pay to satisfy a judgment, settlement, fine or penalty may not be covered by insurance. if we fail to comply with the terms contained in any settlement, order or agreement with a governmental authority relating to these matters, we could be subject to criminal or civil penalties, which could have a material adverse impact on the company. under our charter and certain indemnification agreements that we have entered into (and may in the future enter into) with our officers, directors and certain third parties, we could be required to indemnify and advance expenses to them in connection with their involvement in certain actions, suits, investigations and other proceedings. there can be no assurance that any of these payments will not be material. disruptions to the company regional network and united express flights provided by third-party regional carriers could adversely affect the company operations and financial condition. the company has contractual relationships with various regional carriers to provide regional aircraft service branded as united express. these regional operations are an extension of the company mainline network and complement the company operations by carrying traffic that connects to mainline service and allows flights to smaller cities that cannot be provided economically with mainline aircraft. the company business and operations are dependent on its regional flight network, with regional capacity accounting for approximately 11% of the company total capacity for the year ended december 31, 2017. although the company has agreements with its regional carriers that include contractually agreed performance metrics, the company does not control the operations of these carriers. a number of factors may impact the company regional network, including weather-related effects and seasonality. in addition, the decrease in qualified pilots driven by federal regulations has adversely impacted and could continue to affect the company regional flying. for example, the faa expansion of minimum pilot qualification standards, including a requirement that a pilot have at least 1,500 total flight hours, as well as the faa revised pilot flight and duty time rules, effective january 2014, have contributed to a smaller supply of pilots available to regional carriers. the decrease in qualified pilots resulting from the regulations as well as factors including a decreased student pilot population and a shrinking u.s. military from which to hire qualified pilots, could adversely impact the company operations and financial condition, and also require the company to reduce regional carrier flying. if a significant disruption occurs to the company regional network or flights or if one or more of the regional carriers with which the company has relationships is unable to perform their obligations over an extended period of time, there could be a material adverse effect on the company business, financial condition and operations. the company business relies extensively on third-party service providers. failure of these parties to perform as expected, or interruptions in the company relationships with these providers or their provision of services to the company, could have an adverse effect on the company financial position and results of operations. the company has engaged third-party service providers to perform a large number of functions that are integral to its business, including regional operations, operation of customer service call centers, distribution and sale of airline seat inventory, provision of information technology infrastructure and services, transmitting or uploading of data, provision of aircraft maintenance and repairs, provision of various utilities and performance of aircraft 12 table of contents fueling operations, and catering services, among other vital functions and services. the company does not directly control these third-party service providers, although it does enter into agreements with most of them that define expected service performance. any of these third-party service providers, however, may materially fail to meet their service performance commitments to the company, may suffer disruptions to their systems that could impact their services, or the agreements with such providers may be terminated. for example, flight reservations booked by customers and travel agencies via third-party gdss may be adversely affected by disruptions in the business relationships between the company and gds operators. such disruptions, including a failure to agree upon acceptable contract terms when contracts expire or otherwise become subject to renegotiation, may cause the company flight information to be limited or unavailable for display, significantly increase fees for both the company and gds users and impair the company relationships with its customers and travel agencies. the failure of any of the company third-party service providers to perform their service obligations adequately, or other interruptions of services, may reduce the company revenues and increase its expenses, prevent the company from operating its flights and providing other services to its customers or result in adverse publicity or harm to its brand. in addition, the company business and financial performance could be materially harmed if its customers believe that its services are unreliable or unsatisfactory. orders for new aircraft typically must be placed years in advance of scheduled deliveries, and changes in the company route network over time may make aircraft on order less economic for the company, but any modification or termination of such orders could result in material liability for the company. the company orders for new aircraft are typically made years in advance of actual delivery of such aircraft, and the financial commitment required for purchases of new aircraft is substantial. at december 31, 2017, the company had firm commitments to purchase 228 new aircraft from the boeing company ( boeing ) and airbus s.a.s ( airbus ), as well as related agreements with engine manufacturers, maintenance providers and others. at december 31, 2017, the company commitments relating to the acquisition of aircraft and related spare engines, aircraft improvements and other related obligations aggregated to a total of $22.2 billion. subsequent to the company placing an order for new aircraft, the company route network may change, such that the aircraft on order become less economic to operate flights in the company network. as a result, the company preference for a particular aircraft that it has ordered, often years in advance, may be decreased or eliminated. if the company were to seek to modify or terminate its existing aircraft order commitments, it may be responsible for material obligations to its counterparties arising from any such change. however, the company expects that any such change that it makes would be in the long-term best economic interest of the company. the company could experience adverse publicity, harm to its brand, reduced travel demand and potential tort liability as a result of an accident, catastrophe, or incident involving its aircraft or its operations, the aircraft or operations of its regional carriers or the aircraft or operations of its codeshare partners, which may result in a material adverse effect on the company results of operations or financial position. an accident, catastrophe, or incident involving an aircraft that the company operates, or an aircraft that is operated by a codeshare partner or one of the company regional carriers, or an incident involving the company operations, could have a material adverse effect on the company if such accident, catastrophe, or incident created a public perception that the company operations, or the operations of its codeshare partners or regional carriers, are not safe or reliable, or are less safe or reliable than other airlines. such public perception could, in turn, result in adverse publicity for the company, cause harm to the company brand and reduce travel demand on the company flights, or the flights of its codeshare partners or regional carriers. in addition, any such accident, catastrophe, or incident could expose the company to significant tort liability. although the company currently maintains liability insurance in amounts and of the type the company believes to be consistent with industry practice to cover damages arising from any such accident or catastrophe, and the company codeshare partners and regional carriers carry similar insurance and generally indemnify the company for their operations, if the company liability exceeds the applicable policy limits or the ability of 13 table of contents another carrier to indemnify it, the company could incur substantial losses from an accident, catastrophe or incident which may result in a material adverse effect on the company results of operations or financial position. if we experience changes in, or are unable to retain, our senior management team or other key employees, our operating results could be adversely affected. much of our future success depends on the continued availability of skilled personnel with industry experience and knowledge, including our senior management team and other key employees. if we are unable to attract and retain talented, highly qualified senior management and other key employees, or if we are unable to effectively provide for the succession of senior management, our business may be adversely affected. high and/or volatile fuel prices or significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a material adverse impact on the company strategic plans, operating results, financial position and liquidity. aircraft fuel is critical to the company operations and is one of its single largest operating expenses. the timely and adequate supply of fuel to meet operational demand depends on the continued availability of reliable fuel supply sources, as well as related service and delivery infrastructure. although the company has some ability to cover short-term fuel supply and infrastructure disruptions at some major demand locations, it can neither predict nor guarantee the continued timely availability of aircraft fuel throughout the company system. the company generally sources fuel at prevailing market prices. aircraft fuel has historically been the company most volatile operating expense due to the highly unpredictable nature of market prices for fuel. market prices for aircraft fuel have historically fluctuated substantially in short periods of time and continue to be highly volatile due to a dependence on a multitude of unpredictable factors beyond the company control. these factors include changes in global crude oil prices, the balance between aircraft fuel supply and demand, natural disasters, prevailing inventory levels and fuel production and transportation infrastructure. prices of fuel are also impacted by indirect factors that may potentially impact fuel supply or demand balance, such as geopolitical events, economic growth indicators, fiscal/monetary policies, fuel tax policies, environmental concerns and financial investments in energy markets. both actual changes in these factors, as well as changes in market expectations of these factors can potentially drive rapid changes in fuel price levels in short periods of time. given the highly competitive nature of the airline industry, the company may not be able to increase its fares and fees sufficiently to offset the full impact of increases in fuel prices, especially if these increases are significant, rapid and sustained. further, any such fare and fee increases may not be sustainable, may reduce the general demand for air travel and may also eventually impact the company strategic growth and investment plans for the future. in addition, decreases in fuel prices for an extended period of time may result in increased industry capacity, increased competitive actions for market share and lower fares or surcharges in general. if fuel prices were to then subsequently rise quickly, there may be a lag between the rise in fuel prices and any improvement of the revenue environment. to protect against increases in the market prices of fuel, the company may hedge a portion of its future fuel requirements. however, the company hedging program may not be successful in mitigating higher fuel costs, and any price protection provided may be limited due to choice of hedging instruments and market conditions, including breakdown of correlation between hedging instrument and market price of aircraft fuel and failure of hedge counterparties. to the extent that the company decides to hedge a portion of its future fuel requirements and uses hedge contracts that have the potential to create an obligation to pay upon settlement if fuel prices decline significantly, such hedge contracts may limit the company ability to benefit fully from lower fuel costs in the future. if fuel prices decline significantly from the levels existing at the time the company enters into a hedge contract, the company may be required to post collateral (margin) beyond certain thresholds. there can be no assurance that the company hedging arrangements will provide any particular level of protection against rises in fuel prices or that its counterparties will be able to perform under the company hedging arrangements. 14 table of contents additionally, deterioration in the company financial condition could negatively affect its ability to enter into new hedge contracts in the future. union disputes, employee strikes or slowdowns, and other labor-related disruptions could adversely affect the company operations and could result in increased costs that impair its financial performance. united is a highly unionized company. as of december 31, 2017, the company and its subsidiaries had approximately 89,800 active employees, of whom approximately 80% were represented by various u.s. labor organizations. there is a risk that unions or individual employees might pursue judicial or arbitral claims arising out of changes implemented as a result of the company entering into collective bargaining agreements with its represented employee groups. there is also a possibility that employees or unions could engage in job actions such as slowdowns, work-to-rule campaigns, sick-outs or other actions designed to disrupt the company normal operations, in an attempt to pressure the company in collective bargaining negotiations. although the rla makes such actions unlawful until the parties have been lawfully released to self-help, and the company can seek injunctive relief against premature self-help, such actions can cause significant harm even if ultimately enjoined. in addition, collective bargaining agreements with the company represented employee groups increase the company labor costs, which increase could be material for any applicable reporting period. an outbreak of a disease or similar public health threat could have a material adverse impact on the company business, financial position and results of operations. an outbreak of a disease or similar public health threat that affects travel demand, travel behavior, or travel restrictions could have a material adverse impact on the company business, financial condition and results of operations. extensive government regulation could increase the company operating costs and restrict its ability to conduct its business. airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal oversight. compliance with u.s. and international regulations imposes significant costs and may have adverse effects on the company. laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges, both domestically and internationally, have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce airline revenue. united provides air transportation under certificates of public convenience and necessity issued by the dot. if the dot altered, amended, modified, suspended or revoked these certificates, it could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the faa regulates the safety of united operations. united operates pursuant to an air carrier operating certificate issued by the faa. in 2014, the faa more stringent pilot flight and duty time requirements under part 117 of the federal aviation regulations took effect, which has increased costs for all carriers. additionally, minimum qualifications took effect for air carrier first officers. these regulations will continue to impact the industry and the company for years to come, as they have caused mainline airlines to hire regional pilots, while simultaneously significantly reducing the pool of new pilots from which regional carriers themselves can hire. although this is an industry issue, it directly affects the company and requires it to reduce regional partner flying, as several regional partners have experienced difficulty flying their schedules due to reduced pilot availability. from time to time, the faa also issues orders, airworthiness directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require material expenditures or operational restrictions by the company. these faa orders and directives could include the temporary grounding of an entire aircraft type if the faa identifies design, manufacturing, maintenance or other issues requiring immediate corrective action. these faa directives or requirements could have a material adverse effect on the company. in 2018, the u.s. congress will continue to consider legislation to reauthorize the faa, which encompasses all significant aviation tax and policy related issues. as with previous reauthorization legislation, the u.s. congress may consider a range of policy changes that could impact the company operations and costs. 15 table of contents in addition, the company operations may be adversely impacted due to the existing antiquated atc system utilized by the u.s. government. during peak travel periods in certain markets, the current atc system inability to handle atc demand has led to short-term capacity constraints imposed by government agencies and resulted in delays and disruptions of air traffic. in addition, the current system will not be able to effectively handle projected future air traffic growth. imposition of these atc constraints on a long-term basis may have a material adverse effect on the company operations. failure to update the atc system in a timely manner, and the substantial funding requirements of a modernized atc system that may be imposed on air carriers may have an adverse impact on the company financial condition or results of operations. access to landing and take-off rights, or slots, at several major u.s. airports and many foreign airports served by the company are, or recently have been, subject to government regulation. certain of the company major hubs are among the most congested airports in the united states and have been or could be the subject of regulatory action that might limit the number of flights and/or increase costs of operations at certain times or throughout the day. the faa may limit the company airport access by limiting the number of departure and arrival slots at high density traffic airports, which could affect the company ownership and transfer rights, and local airport authorities may have the ability to control access to certain facilities or the cost of access to their facilities, which could have an adverse effect on the company business. the faa historically has taken actions with respect to airlines slot holdings that airlines have challenged; if the faa were to take actions that adversely affect the company slot holdings, the company could incur substantial costs to preserve its slots or may lose slots. if slots are eliminated at an airport, or if the number of hours of operation governed by slots is reduced at an airport, the lack of controls on takeoffs and landings could result in greater congestion both at the affected airport or in the regional airspace (e.g., the new york city metropolitan region airspace) and could significantly impact the company operations. further, the company operating costs at airports, including the company major hubs, may increase significantly because of capital improvements at such airports that the company may be required to fund, directly or indirectly. such costs could be imposed by the relevant airport authority without the company approval and may have a material adverse effect on the company financial condition. many aspects of the company operations are also subject to increasingly stringent federal, state, local and international laws protecting the environment. future environmental regulatory developments, such as climate change regulations in the united states and abroad could adversely affect operations and increase operating costs in the airline industry. in addition, there is the potential for additional regulatory actions in regard to the emission of ghgs by the aviation industry. the precise nature of future requirements and their applicability to the company are difficult to predict, but the financial impact to the company and the aviation industry would likely be adverse and could be significant. see part i, item 1, business industry regulation, of this report for additional information on government regulation impacting the company. extensive government regulation on international routes could restrict the company ability to conduct its business and have a material adverse effect on the company financial position and results of operations. the ability of carriers to operate flights on international routes between the united states and other countries may be subject to change. applicable arrangements between the united states and foreign governments may be amended from time to time, government policies with respect to airport operations may be revised, and the availability of appropriate slots or facilities may change. the company currently operates a number of flights on international routes under government arrangements, regulations or policies that designate the number of carriers permitted to operate on such routes, the capacity of the carriers providing services on such routes, the airports at which carriers may operate international flights, or the number of carriers allowed access to particular airports. any further limitations, additions or modifications to such arrangements, regulations or policies could have a material adverse effect on the company financial position and results of operations. additionally, a change in law, regulation or policy for any of the company international routes, such as open skies, could have a 16 table of contents material adverse impact on the company financial position and results of operations and could result in the impairment of material amounts of related tangible and intangible assets. in addition, competition from revenue-sharing joint ventures and other alliance arrangements by and among other airlines could impair the value of the company business and assets on the open skies routes. the company plans to enter into or expand u.s. antitrust immunized alliances and joint ventures on various international routes are subject to receipt of approvals from applicable u.s. federal authorities and obtaining other applicable foreign government clearances or satisfying the necessary applicable regulatory requirements. there can be no assurance that such approvals and clearances will be granted or will continue in effect upon further regulatory review or that changes in regulatory requirements or standards can be satisfied. see part i, item 1, business industry regulation, of this report for additional information on government regulation impacting the company. the airline industry may undergo further change with respect to alliances and joint ventures or due to consolidations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the company. the company faces and may continue to face strong competition from other carriers due to the modification of alliances and formation of new joint ventures. carriers may improve their competitive positions through airline alliances, slot swaps and/or joint ventures. certain types of airline joint ventures further competition by allowing multiple airlines to coordinate routes, pool revenues and costs, and enjoy other mutual benefits, achieving many of the benefits of consolidation. open skies agreements, including the agreements between the united states and the eu and between the united states and japan, may also give rise to better integration opportunities among international carriers. movement of airlines between current global airline alliances could reduce joint network coverage for members of such alliances while also creating opportunities for joint ventures and bilateral alliances that did not exist before such realignment. there is ongoing speculation that further airline and airline alliance consolidations or reorganizations could occur in the future, especially if new open skies agreements between brazil and the united states are fully implemented. the company routinely engages in analysis and discussions regarding its own strategic position, including current and potential alliances, asset acquisitions and divestitures and may have future discussions with other airlines regarding strategic activities. if other airlines participate in such activities, those airlines may significantly improve their cost structures or revenue generation capabilities, thereby potentially making them stronger competitors of the company and potentially impairing the company ability to realize expected benefits from its own strategic relationships. insufficient liquidity may have a material adverse effect on the company financial position and business. the company has a significant amount of financial leverage from fixed obligations, including aircraft lease and debt financings, leases of airport property and other facilities, and other material cash obligations. in addition, the company has substantial noncancelable commitments for capital expenditures, including for the acquisition of new aircraft and related spare engines. although the company cash flows from operations and its available capital, including the proceeds from financing transactions, have been sufficient to meet these obligations and commitments to date, the company future liquidity could be negatively affected by the risk factors discussed in this report, including, but not limited to, substantial volatility in the price of fuel, adverse economic conditions, disruptions in the global capital markets and catastrophic external events. if the company liquidity is materially diminished due to the various risk factors noted in this report, or otherwise, the company might not be able to timely pay its leases and debts or comply with certain operating and financial covenants under its financing and credit card processing agreements or with other material provisions of its contractual obligations. certain of these covenants require the company or united, as applicable, to maintain minimum liquidity and/or minimum collateral coverage ratios. the company or united ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond its control, including the overall industry revenue environment, the level of fuel costs and the appraised value of the collateral. 17 table of contents if the company does not timely pay its leases and debts or comply with such covenants, a variety of adverse consequences could result. these potential adverse consequences include an increase of required reserves under credit card processing agreements, withholding of credit card sale proceeds by its credit card service providers, loss of undrawn lines of credit, the occurrence of one or more events of default under the relevant agreements, the acceleration of the maturity of debt and/or the exercise of other remedies by its creditors and equipment lessors that could result in a material adverse effect on the company financial position and results of operations. the company cannot provide assurance that it would have sufficient liquidity to repay or refinance such debt if it were accelerated. in addition, an event of default or acceleration of debt under certain of its financing agreements could result in one or more events of default under certain of the company other financing agreements due to cross default and cross acceleration provisions. furthermore, insufficient liquidity may limit the company ability to withstand competitive pressures and downturns in the travel business and the economy in general. the company substantial level of indebtedness and non-investment grade credit rating, as well as market conditions and the availability of assets as collateral for loans or other indebtedness, may make it difficult for the company to raise additional capital if needed to meet its liquidity needs on acceptable terms, or at all. see part ii, item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, of this report for additional information regarding the company liquidity. increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage may materially and adversely impact the company results of operations and financial condition. the company could be exposed to significant liability or loss if its property or operations were to be affected by a natural catastrophe or other event, including aircraft accidents. the company maintains insurance policies, including, but not limited to, terrorism, aviation hull and liability, workers compensation and property and business interruption insurance, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. if the company is unable to obtain sufficient insurance with acceptable terms or if the coverage obtained is insufficient relative to actual liability or losses that the company experiences, whether due to insurance market conditions, policy limitations and exclusions or otherwise, its results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. the company results of operations fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors associated with the airline industry. due to greater demand for air travel during the spring and summer months, revenues in the airline industry in the second and third quarters of the year are generally stronger than revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year, which are periods of lower travel demand. the company results of operations generally reflect this seasonality, but have also been impacted by numerous other factors that are not necessarily seasonal, including, among others, the imposition of excise and similar taxes, extreme or severe weather, atc congestion, geological events, natural disasters, changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation, general economic conditions and other factors. as a result, the company quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year and historical operating results in a quarterly or annual period are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. the company may never realize the full value of its intangible assets or its long-lived assets causing it to record impairments that may negatively affect its financial position and results of operations. in accordance with applicable accounting standards, the company is required to test its indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if conditions indicate that an impairment may have occurred. in addition, the company is required to test certain of its other assets for impairment if conditions indicate that an impairment may have occurred. 18 table of contents the company may be required to recognize impairments in the future due to, among other factors, extreme fuel price volatility, tight credit markets, a decline in the fair value of certain tangible or intangible assets, unfavorable trends in historical or forecasted results of operations and cash flows and an uncertain economic environment, as well as other uncertainties. the company can provide no assurance that a material impairment charge of tangible or intangible assets will not occur in a future period. the value of the company aircraft could be impacted in future periods by changes in supply and demand for these aircraft. such changes in supply and demand for certain aircraft types could result from grounding of aircraft by the company or other carriers. an impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on the company financial position and results of operations. the company ability to use its net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for u.s. federal income tax purposes may be significantly limited due to various circumstances, including certain possible future transactions involving the sale or issuance of ual common stock, or if taxable income does not reach sufficient levels. as of december 31, 2017, ual reported consolidated federal net operating loss ( nol ) carryforwards of approximately $2.4 billion. the company ability to use its nol carryforwards may be limited if it experiences an ownership change as defined in section 382 ( section 382 ) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ). an ownership change generally occurs if certain stockholders increase their aggregate percentage ownership of a corporation stock by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest percentage ownership at any time during the testing period, which is generally the three-year period preceding any potential ownership change. there is no assurance that the company will not experience a future ownership change under section 382 that may significantly limit or possibly eliminate its ability to use its nol carryforwards. potential future transactions involving the sale or issuance of ual common stock, including the exercise of conversion options under the terms of any convertible debt that ual may issue in the future, the repurchase of such debt with ual common stock, any issuance of ual common stock for cash, and the acquisition or disposition of such stock by a stockholder owning 5% or more of ual common stock, or a combination of such transactions, may increase the possibility that the company will experience a future ownership change under section 382. under section 382, a future ownership change would subject the company to additional annual limitations that apply to the amount of pre-ownership change nols that may be used to offset post-ownership change taxable income. this limitation is generally determined by multiplying the value of a corporation stock immediately before the ownership change by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate. any unused annual limitation may, subject to certain limits, be carried over to later years, and the limitation may, under certain circumstances, be increased by built-in gains in the assets held by such corporation at the time of the ownership change. this limitation could cause the company u.s. federal income taxes to be greater, or to be paid earlier, than they otherwise would be, and could cause all or a portion of the company nol carryforwards to expire unused. similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes. the company ability to use its nol carryforwards will also depend on the amount of taxable income it generates in future periods. the company nol carryforwards may expire before it can generate sufficient taxable income to use them in full. the final impacts of the tax cuts and jobs act could be materially different from our current estimates. on december 22, 2017, the tax cuts and jobs act was signed into law (the tax act ). the tax act introduced significant changes to the code. we continue to examine the impact the tax act may have on our business. notwithstanding the reduction in the federal corporate income tax rate as a result of tax act, the estimated impact of the new law is based on management current knowledge and assumptions and recognized impacts could be materially different from current estimates based upon our further analysis of the new law. 19 table of contents our significant investments in airlines in other parts of the world and the commercial relationships that we have with those carriers may not produce the returns or results we expect. an important part of our strategy to expand our global network includes making significant investments in airlines in other parts of the world and expanding our commercial relationships with these carriers. in 2015, we made a $100 million investment in azul linhas a&eacute;reas brasileiras s.a. ( azul ) and enhanced our commercial arrangements with azul. we expect to continue exploring similar non-controlling investments in, and entering into joint ventures, commercial agreements, loan transactions and strategic alliances with, other carriers as part of our global business strategy. these transactions and relationships (including our strategic partnership with, and investment in, azul) involve significant challenges and risks, including that we may not realize a satisfactory return on our investment, that we may not receive repayment of invested funds, that they may distract management from our operations or that they may not generate the expected revenue synergies. these events could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. in addition, we are dependent on these other carriers for significant aspects of our network in the regions in which they operate. while we work closely with these carriers, we do not have control over their operations or business methods. we may be subject to consequences from any improper behavior of joint venture partners, including for failure to comply with anti-corruption laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act. furthermore, our relationships with these carriers may be subject to the laws and regulations of non-u.s. jurisdictions in which these carriers are located or conduct business. any political or regulatory change in these jurisdictions that negatively impact or prohibit our arrangements with these carriers could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. to the extent that the operations of any of these carriers are disrupted over an extended period of time or their actions subject us to the consequences of failure to comply with laws and regulations, our results of operations may be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rates. our net income is affected by fluctuations in interest rates (e.g. interest expense on variable rate debt and interest income earned on short-term investments). the company policy is to manage interest rate risk through a combination of fixed and variable rate debt. the following table summarizes information related to the company interest rate market risk at december 31 (in millions): 2017 2016 variable rate debt carrying value of variable rate debt at december 31 $ 3,342 $ 2,582 impact of 100 basis point increase on projected interest expense for the following year 33 25 fixed rate debt carrying value of fixed rate debt at december 31 9,926 8,185 fair value of fixed rate debt at december 31 10,349 8,469 impact of 100 basis point increase in market rates on fair value (403) (340) 45 table of contents a change in market interest rates would also impact interest income earned on our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. assuming our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments remain at their average 2017 levels, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in a corresponding increase in the company interest income of approximately $45 million during 2018. commodity price risk (aircraft fuel). the price level of aircraft fuel can significantly affect the company operations, results of operations, financial position and liquidity. our operational and financial results can be significantly impacted by changes in the price and availability of aircraft fuel. to provide adequate supplies of fuel, the company routinely enters into purchase contracts that are customarily indexed to market prices for aircraft fuel, and the company generally has some ability to cover short-term fuel supply and infrastructure disruptions at some major demand locations. the price of aircraft fuel has fluctuated substantially in the past several years and in order to lower its exposure to unpredictable increases in the market prices of aircraft fuel, the company has historically hedged a portion of its planned fuel requirements. the company current strategy is to not enter into transactions to hedge fuel price volatility, although the company regularly reviews its policy based on market conditions and other factors. the company 2018 forecasted fuel consumption is presently approximately four billion gallons, and based on this forecast, a one dollar change in the price of a barrel of crude oil would change the company annual fuel expense by approximately $96 million. foreign currency. the company generates revenues and incurs expenses in numerous foreign currencies. changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact the company results of operations through changes in the dollar value of foreign currency-denominated operating revenues and expenses. some of the company more significant foreign currency exposures include the canadian dollar, chinese renminbi, european euro, british pound and japanese yen. the company current strategy is to not enter into transactions to hedge its foreign currency sales, although the company regularly reviews its policy based on market conditions and other factors. the result of a uniform 10 percent strengthening in the value of the u.s. dollar from december 31, 2017 levels relative to each of the currencies in which the company has foreign currency exposure would result in a decrease in pre-tax income of approximately $245 million for the year ending december 31, 2018. this sensitivity analysis was prepared based upon projected 2018 foreign currency-denominated revenues and expenses as of december 31, 2017. 46 table of contents