risk factors risk factors and the section entitled forward-looking statements in item 7. md&amp;a. chapter 11 proceedings on january 29, 2019, pg&amp;e corporation and the utility filed for chapter 11 protection. for more information about the chapter 11 bankruptcy filings see item 7. md&amp;a and note 15 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. pg&amp;e corporation and the utility are facing extraordinary challenges relating to the wildfires that occurred in northern california in 2017 and 2018. management has concluded that these circumstances raise substantial doubt about pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's ability to continue as going concerns, and their independent registered public accountants have included an explanatory paragraph in their auditors' report which states certain conditions exist which raise substantial doubt about pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's ability to continue as going concerns in relation to the foregoing. for more information about these matters, see item 7. md&amp;a and note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. 8 regulatory environment the utility's business is subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of various agencies at the federal, state, and local levels. at the state level, the utility is regulated primarily by the cpuc. at the federal level, the utility is subject to the jurisdiction of the ferc and the nrc. the utility is also subject to the requirements of other federal, state and local regulatory agencies, including with respect to safety, the environment, and health. this section and the ratemaking mechanisms section below summarize some of the more significant laws, regulations, and regulatory proceedings affecting the utility. pg&amp;e corporation is a public utility holding company as defined under the public utility holding company act of 2005 and is subject to regulatory oversight by the ferc. pg&amp;e corporation and its subsidiaries are exempt from all requirements of the public utility holding company act of 2005 other than the obligation to provide access to their books and records to the ferc and the cpuc for ratemaking purposes. the california public utilities commission the cpuc is a regulatory agency that regulates privately owned public utilities in california. the cpuc has jurisdiction over the rates and terms and conditions of service for the utility's electric and natural gas distribution operations, electric generation, and natural gas transmission and storage services. the cpuc also has exercised jurisdiction over the utility's issuances of securities, dispositions of utility assets and facilities, energy purchases on behalf of the utility's electric and natural gas retail customers, rates of return, rates of depreciation, oversight of nuclear decommissioning, and aspects of the siting of facilities used in providing electric and natural gas utility service. the cpuc enforces state laws and regulations that set forth safety requirements pertaining to the design, construction, testing, operation, and maintenance of utility gas and electric facilities. the cpuc can impose penalties of up to $50,000 per day, per violation, for violations that occurred after january 1, 2012. (the statutory maximum penalty for violations that occurred before january 1, 2012 is $20,000 per violation.) the cpuc has wide discretion to determine the amount of penalties based on the totality of the circumstances, including such factors as the gravity of the violations; the type of harm caused by the violations and the number of persons affected; and the good faith of the entity charged in attempting to achieve compliance, after notification of a violation. the cpuc also is required to consider the appropriateness of the amount of the penalty to the size of the entity charged. the cpuc has delegated authority to the sed to issue citations and impose penalties for violations identified through audits, investigations, or self-reports. under the current gas and electric citation programs adopted by the cpuc in september 2016, the sed has discretion whether to issue a penalty for each violation, but if it assesses a penalty for a violation, it is required to impose the maximum statutory penalty of $50,000, with an administrative limit of $8 million per citation issued. effective january 1, 2019, the maximum statutory penalty increased to $100,000. the sed may, at its discretion, impose penalties on a daily basis, or on less than a daily basis, for violations that continued for more than one day. the sed has the discretion to either address each violation in a distinct citation or to include multiple violations in a single citation regardless of whether the violations occurred in the same incident or are of a similar nature. penalty payments for citations issued pursuant to the gas and electric safety citation programs are the responsibility of shareholders of an issuer and must not be recovered in rates or otherwise directly or indirectly charged to customers. the california state legislature also directs the cpuc to implement state laws and policies, such as the laws relating to wildfires and wildfire cost recovery, increasing renewable energy resources, the development and widespread deployment of distributed generation and self-generation resources, the reduction of ghg emissions, the establishment of energy storage procurement targets, and the development of a state-wide electric vehicle charging infrastructure. the cpuc is responsible for approving funding and administration of state-mandated public purpose programs such as energy efficiency and other customer programs. the cpuc also conducts audits and reviews of the utility's accounting, performance, and compliance with regulatory guidelines. the cpuc has imposed various conditions that govern the relationship between the utility and pg&amp;e corporation and other affiliates, including financial conditions that require pg&amp;e corporation's board of directors to give first priority to the capital requirements of the utility, as determined to be necessary and prudent to meet the utility's obligation to serve or to operate the utility in a prudent and efficient manner. (for more information, see liquidity and financial resources in item 7. md&amp;a and item 1a. risk factors.) 9 the federal energy regulatory commission and the california independent system operator the ferc has jurisdiction over the utility's electric transmission revenue requirements and rates, the licensing of substantially all of the utility's hydroelectric generation facilities, and the interstate sale and transportation of natural gas. the ferc regulates the interconnections of the utility's transmission systems with other electric system and generation facilities, the tariffs and conditions of service of regional transmission organizations and the terms and rates of wholesale electricity sales. the ferc also is charged with adopting and enforcing mandatory standards governing the reliability of the nation's electric transmission grid, including standards to protect the nation's bulk power system against potential disruptions from cyber and physical security breaches. the ferc has authority to impose fines of up to $1 million per day for violations of certain federal statutes and regulations. the caiso is the ferc-approved regional transmission organization for the utility's service territory. the caiso controls the operation of the electric transmission system in california and provides open access transmission service on a non-discriminatory basis. the caiso also is responsible for planning transmission system additions, ensuring the maintenance of adequate reserves of generating capacity, and ensuring that the reliability of the transmission system is maintained. the nuclear regulatory commission the nrc oversees the licensing, construction, operation and decommissioning of nuclear facilities, including the utility's two nuclear generating units at diablo canyon and the utility's retired nuclear generating unit at humboldt bay. (see electricity resources below.) nrc regulations require extensive monitoring and review of the safety, radiological, seismic, environmental, and security aspects of these facilities. in the event of non-compliance, the nrc has the authority to impose fines or to force a shutdown of a nuclear plant, or both. nrc safety and security requirements have, in the past, necessitated substantial capital expenditures at diablo canyon, and substantial capital expenditures could be required in the future. (for more information about diablo canyon, see regulatory matters - diablo canyon nuclear power plant in item 7. md&amp;a and item 3. legal proceedings below.) third-party monitor on april 12, 2017, the utility retained a third-party monitor at the utility's expense as part of its compliance with the sentencing terms of the utility's january 27, 2017 federal criminal conviction, which sentenced the utility to, among other things, a five-year corporate probation period and oversight by a third-party monitor for a period of five years, with the ability to apply for early termination after three years. the goal of the third-party monitor is to help ensure that the utility takes reasonable and appropriate steps to maintain the safety of its gas and electric operations and maintains effective ethics, compliance, and safety related incentive programs on a utility-wide basis. (for more information see item 1a. risk factors and "u.s. district court matters and probation" in item 3. legal proceedings and in note 15 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8.) other regulators the cec is the state's primary energy policy and planning agency. the cec is responsible for licensing all thermal power plants over 50 mw within california. the cec also is responsible for forecasts of future energy needs used by the cpuc in determining the adequacy of the utilities' electricity procurement plans and for adopting building and appliance energy efficiency requirements. the carb is the state agency responsible for setting and monitoring ghg and other emission limits. the carb is also responsible for adopting and enforcing regulations to implement state law requirements to gradually reduce ghg emissions in california. (see environmental regulation - air quality and climate change below.) in addition, the utility obtains permits, authorizations, and licenses in connection with the construction and operation of the utility's generation facilities, electricity transmission lines, natural gas transportation pipelines, and gas compressor station facilities. the utility also periodically obtains permits, authorizations, and licenses in connection with distribution of electricity and natural gas that grant the utility rights to occupy and/or use public property for the operation of the utility's business and to conduct certain related operations. the utility has franchise agreements with approximately 300 cities and counties that permit the utility to install, operate, and maintain the utility's electric and natural gas facilities in the public streets and highways. in exchange for the right to use public streets and highways, the utility pays annual fees to the cities and counties. in most cases, the utility's franchise agreements are for an indeterminate term, with no expiration date. (for more information see item 1a. risk factors.) 10 ratemaking mechanisms the utility's rates for electric and natural gas utility services are set at levels that are intended to allow the utility to recover its costs of providing service and a return on invested capital ( cost-of-service ratemaking ). before setting rates, the cpuc and the ferc conduct proceedings to determine the annual amount that the utility will be authorized to collect from its customers ( revenue requirements ). the utility's revenue requirements consist primarily of a base amount set to enable the utility to recover its reasonable operating expenses (e.g., maintenance, administration and general expenses) and capital costs (e.g., depreciation, tax, and financing expenses). in addition, the cpuc authorizes the utility to collect revenues to recover costs that the utility is allowed to pass-through to customers (referred to as utility revenues and costs that did not impact earnings in item 7. md&amp;a), including its costs to procure electricity, natural gas and nuclear fuel, to administer public purpose and customer programs, and to decommission its nuclear facilities. the utility's rate of return on electric transmission assets is determined in the ferc to proceedings. similarly, the authorized rate of return on all other utility assets is set in the cpuc's cost of capital proceeding. other than its electric transmission and certain gas transmission and storage revenues, the utility's base revenues are decoupled from its sales volume. regulatory balancing accounts, or revenue adjustment mechanisms, are designed to allow the utility to fully collect its authorized base revenue requirements. as a result, the utility's base revenues are not impacted by fluctuations in sales resulting from, for example, weather or economic conditions. the utility's earnings primarily depend on its ability to manage its base operating and capital costs (referred to as utility revenues and costs that impacted earnings in item 7. md&amp;a) within its authorized base revenue requirements. due to the seasonal nature of the utility's business and rate design, customer electric bills are generally higher during summer months (may - october) because of higher demand, driven by air conditioning loads. customer bills related to gas service generally increase during the winter months (november - march) to account for the gas peak due to heating. from time to time, the cpuc may use incentive ratemaking mechanisms that provide the utility an opportunity to earn some additional revenues. for example, the utility has earned incentives for the successful implementation of energy efficiency programs. see regulatory matters in item 7. md&amp;a for more information on specific cpuc proceedings. base revenues general rate cases the grc is the primary proceeding in which the cpuc determines the amount of base revenue requirements that the utility is authorized to collect from customers to recover the utility's anticipated costs, including return on rate base, related to its electric distribution, natural gas distribution, and utility-owned electric generation operations. the cpuc generally conducts a grc every three or four years. the cpuc approves the annual revenue requirements for the first year (or test year ) of the grc period and typically authorizes the utility to receive annual increases in revenue requirements for the subsequent years of the grc period (known as attrition years ). attrition year rate adjustments are generally provided for cost increases related to increases in invested capital and inflation. parties in the utility's grc include the pao and turn, who generally represent the overall interests of residential customers, as well as a myriad of other intervenors who represent other business, community, customer, environmental, and union interests. (for more information about the utility's grc, see regulatory matters 2017 general rate case and regulatory matters 2020 general rate case in item 7. md&amp;a.) natural gas transmission and storage rate cases the cpuc determines the utility's authorized revenue requirements and rates for its natural gas transmission and storage services in the gt&amp;s rate case. the cpuc generally conducts a gt&amp;s rate case every three or four years. similar to the grc, the cpuc approves the annual revenue requirements for the first year (or test year ) of the gt&amp;s rate case period and typically determines annual increases in revenue requirements for attrition years of the gt&amp;s rate case period. parties in the utility's gt&amp;s rate case include the pao and turn, who generally represent the overall interests of residential customers, as well as other intervenors who represent other business, community, customer, environmental, and union interests. (for more information, see regulatory matters - 2015 gas transmission and storage rate case and regulatory matters - 2019 gas transmission and storage rate case in item 7. md&amp;a.) 11 cost of capital proceedings the cpuc periodically conducts a cost of capital proceeding to authorize the utility's capital structure and rates of return for its electric generation, electric and natural gas distribution, and natural gas transmission and storage rate base. the cpuc has authorized the utility's capital structure through 2019, consisting of 52% common equity, 47% long-term debt, and 1% preferred stock. the cpuc also set the authorized roe through 2017 at 10.40% and 10.25% beginning on january 1, 2018 and reset the cost of debt to 4.89%. the cpuc previously adopted an adjustment mechanism to allow the utility's capital structure and roe to be adjusted if the utility bond index changes by certain thresholds on an annual basis. the utility expects to submit its next cost of capital application to the cpuc on or about april 22, 2019. electricity transmission owner rate cases the ferc determines the amount of authorized revenue requirements, including the rate of return on electric transmission assets, that the utility may collect in rates in the to rate case. the utility has historically filed a to rate case every year. the ferc typically authorizes the utility to charge new rates based on the requested revenue requirement, subject to refund, before the ferc has issued a final decision. in 2018, the utility filed a proposed formula rate at ferc, which would be updated annually according to the formula. these ferc-approved rates are included by the cpuc in the utility's retail electric rates and by the caiso in its transmission access charges to wholesale customers. (for more information, see regulatory matters -transmission owner rate cases in item 7. md&amp;a.) the utility also recovers a portion of its revenue requirements for its wholesale electric transmission costs through charges collected under specific contracts with wholesale transmission customers that the utility entered into before the caiso began its operations. these wholesale customers are charged individualized rates based on the terms of their contracts. memorandum account costs periodically, costs arise which could not be anticipated by the utility during cpuc grc rate requests resulting from catastrophic events, changes in regulation, or extraordinary changes in operating practices. the utility may seek authority to track incremental costs in a memorandum account and the cpuc may authorize recovery of costs tracked in memorandum accounts if the costs are deemed incremental and prudently incurred. these accounts, which include the cema, wema, and fhpma, among others, allow the utility to track the costs associated with work related to disaster and wildfire response, and other wildfire prevention-related costs. while the utility believes such costs are recoverable, rate recovery requires cpuc authorization in separate proceedings or through a grc. (for more information, see regulatory matters - wildfire expense memorandum account , regulatory matters - catastrophic expense memorandum account , and regulatory matters - fire hazard prevention memorandum account in item 7. md&amp;a.) revenues to recover energy procurement and other pass-through costs electricity procurement costs california investor-owned electric utilities are responsible for procuring electrical capacity required to meet bundled customer demand, plus applicable reserve margins, that are not satisfied from their own generation facilities and existing electric contracts. the utilities are responsible for scheduling and bidding electric generation resources, including certain electricity procured from third parties into the wholesale market, to meet customer demand according to which resources are the least expensive (i.e., using the principles of least-cost dispatch ). in addition, the utilities are required to obtain cpuc approval of their bcpps based on long-term demand forecasts. in october 2015, the cpuc approved the utility's most recent bcpp. it was revised since its initial approval and will remain in effect as revised until superseded by a subsequent cpuc-approved plan. on february 8, 2019, the cpuc approved the utility's filing that suspended certain elements of its current bcpp as a result of its financial condition, effective as of january 16, 2019. additionally, on january 25, 2019, the utility filed with the cpuc an update to its bcpp to further refine how it manages certain elements of its procurement activity and provide detail of its sales framework. the updated bcpp would be effective upon cpuc approval. california law allows electric utilities to recover the costs incurred in compliance with their cpuc-approved bcpps without further after-the-fact reasonableness review by the cpuc. the cpuc may disallow costs associated with electricity purchases if the costs were not incurred in compliance with the cpuc-approved plan or if the cpuc determines that the utility failed to follow the principles of least-cost dispatch. additionally, the cpuc may disallow the cost of replacement power procured due to unplanned outages at utility-owned generation facilities. 12 the utility recovers its electric procurement costs annually primarily through the energy resource recovery account. (see note 3 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8.) each year, the cpuc reviews the utility's forecasted procurement costs related to power purchase agreements, derivative instruments, ghg emissions costs, and generation fuel expense, and approves a forecasted revenue requirement. the cpuc may adjust the utility's retail electric rates more frequently if the forecasted aggregate over-collections or under-collections in the energy resource recovery account exceed 5% of its prior year electric procurement and utility-owned generation revenues. the cpuc performs an annual compliance review of the transactions recorded in the energy resource recovery account. the cpuc has approved various power purchase agreements that the utility has entered into with third parties in accordance with the utility's cpuc-approved procurement plan, to meet mandatory renewable energy targets, and to comply with resource adequacy requirements. (for more information, see electric utility operations - electricity resources below as well as note 14 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8.) natural gas procurement, storage, and transportation costs the utility recovers the cost of gas used in generation facilities as a cost of electricity that is recovered annually through retail electric rates. the utility sets the natural gas procurement rate for small commercial and residential customers (referred to as core customers) monthly, based on the forecasted costs of natural gas, core pipeline capacity and storage costs. the utility recovers the cost of gas purchased on behalf of core customers as well as the cost of derivative instruments for its core gas portfolio, through its retail gas rates, subject to limits as set forth in its core procurement incentive mechanism described below. the utility reflects the difference between actual natural gas purchase costs and forecasted natural gas purchase costs in several natural gas balancing accounts, with under-collections and over-collections taken into account in subsequent monthly rate changes. the core procurement incentive mechanism protects the utility against after-the-fact reasonableness reviews of its gas procurement costs for its core gas portfolio. under the core procurement incentive mechanism, the utility's natural gas purchase costs for a fixed 12-month period are compared to an aggregate market-based benchmark based on a weighted average of published monthly and daily natural gas price indices at the points where the utility typically purchases natural gas. costs that fall within a tolerance band, which is 99% to 102% of the commodity benchmark, are considered reasonable and are fully recovered in customers' rates. one-half of the costs above 102% of the benchmark are recoverable in customers' rates, and the utility's customers receive in their rates 80% of any savings resulting from the utility's cost of natural gas that is less than 99% of the benchmark. the utility retains the remaining amount of these savings as incentive revenues, subject to a cap equal to 1.5% of total natural gas commodity costs. while this mechanism remains in place, changes in the price of natural gas, consistent with the market-based benchmark, are not expected to materially impact net income. the utility incurs transportation costs under various agreements with interstate and canadian third-party transportation service providers. these providers transport natural gas from the points at which the utility takes delivery of natural gas (typically in canada, the u.s. rocky mountains, and the southwestern united states) to the points at which the utility's natural gas transportation system begins. these agreements are governed by ferc-approved tariffs that detail rates, rules, and terms of service for the provision of natural gas transportation services to the utility on interstate and canadian pipelines. the ferc approves the united states tariffs that shippers, including the utility, pay for pipeline service, and the applicable canadian tariffs are approved by the national energy board, a canadian regulatory agency. the transportation costs the utility incurs under these agreements are recovered through cpuc-approved rates as core natural gas procurement costs or as a cost of electricity. 13 costs associated with public purpose and customer programs the cpuc authorizes the utility to recover the costs of various public purpose and other customer programs through the collection of rates from most utility customers. these programs relate to energy efficiency, demand response, distributed generation, energy research and development, and other matters. additionally, the cpuc has authorized the utility to provide discounted rates for specified types of customers, such as for low-income customers under the california alternate rates for energy ( care ) program, which is paid for by the utility's other customers. nuclear decommissioning costs the utility's nuclear power facilities consist of two units at diablo canyon and the retired facility at humboldt bay. nuclear decommissioning requires the safe removal of nuclear facilities from service and the reduction of residual radioactivity to a level that permits termination of the nrc license and release of the property for unrestricted use. nuclear decommissioning costs are generally collected in advance through rates and are held in nuclear decommissioning trusts to be used for the eventual decommissioning of each nuclear unit. the utility files an application with the cpuc every three years requesting approval of the utility's updated estimated decommissioning costs and any rate change necessary to fully fund the nuclear decommissioning trusts to the levels needed to decommission the utility's nuclear plants. on january 11, 2018, the cpuc approved the retirement of diablo canyon's two nuclear power reactor units by 2024 and 2025. the cpuc: deferred consideration of replacement resources to the cpuc's integrated resource planning proceeding; authorized rate recovery for up to $211.3 million (compared with the $352.1 million requested by the utility) for an employee retention program; authorized rate recovery for an employee retraining program of $11.3 million requested by the utility; rejected rate recovery of the proposed $85 million for the community impacts mitigation program on the grounds that rate recovery for such a program requires legislative authorization; authorized rate recovery of $18.6 million of the total diablo canyon license renewal cost of $53 million and rate recovery of canceled project costs equal to 100% of direct costs incurred prior to june 30, 2016, and 25% of direct costs incurred after june 30, 2016, based on a provision of the settlement agreement among the utility, the joint parties, and certain other parties that the utility filed with the cpuc in may 2017; and approved the amortization of the book value for diablo canyon consistent with the diablo canyon closure schedule. on march 7, 2018, the utility submitted a request to the nrc to withdraw its diablo canyon license renewal application. on april 16, 2018, the nrc granted the utility's request to withdraw its license renewal application. on november 29, 2018, in response to sb 1090, the cpuc issued its decision addressing the key remaining goals of the diablo canyon joint proposal agreement, including: approving the community impact mitigation settlement of $85 million, originally proposed in the joint settlement agreement; deferring implementation to its integrated resource planning to ensure that there is no increase in ghg emissions as a result of the diablo canyon retirement; and approving full funding of the $352.1 million diablo canyon employee retention program, originally proposed in the joint settlement agreement. on february 8, 2019, the cpuc approved the utility's request to implement sb 1090, effective as of january 1, 2019, which includes full funding for the community impact mitigation program and employee retention program. for costs related to asset retirement obligations see "nuclear decommissioning obligation" in note 2 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. 14 electric utility operations the utility generates electricity and provides electric transmission and distribution services throughout its service territory in northern and central california to residential, commercial, industrial, and agricultural customers. the utility provides bundled services (i.e., electricity, transmission and distribution services) to customers in its service territory. customers also can obtain electricity from alternative providers such as municipalities or ccas, as well as from self-generation resources, such as rooftop solar installations. (for more information, see regulatory matters in item 7. md&amp;a.) electricity resources the utility is required to maintain capacity adequate to meet its customers' demand for electricity ( load ), including peak demand and planning and operating reserves, deliverable to the locations and at times as may be necessary to provide reliable electric service. the utility is required to dispatch, or schedule all of the electric resources within its portfolio using least-cost dispatch . the following table shows the percentage of the utility's total deliveries of electricity to customers in 2018 represented by each major electric resource, and further discussed below. total 2018 actual electricity generated and procured - 48,832 gwh (1) : percent of bundled retail sales owned generation facilities nuclear 33.5 % small hydroelectric 1.5 % large hydroelectric 12.1 % fossil fuel-fired 11.6 % solar 0.6 % total 59.3 % qualifying facilities renewable 0.5 % non-renewable 4.4 % total 4.9 % irrigation districts and water agencies small hydroelectric 0.1 % large hydroelectric % total 0.1 % other third-party purchase agreements renewable 36.2 % non-renewable 0.6 % large hydroelectric 9.5 % total 46.3 % others, net (2) (10.6 )% (10.6 )% total (3) 100 % (1) this amount excludes electricity provided to direct access customers and ccas who procure their own supplies of electricity. (2) mainly comprised of net caiso open market purchases. (3) non-renewable sources, including nuclear, large hydroelectric, and fossil fuel-fired are offset by transmission and distribution related system losses. 15 renewable energy resources california law established an rps that requires load-serving entities, such as the utility, to gradually increase the amount of renewable energy they deliver to their customers. in october 2015, the california governor signed sb 350, the clean energy and pollution reduction act of 2015 into law. sb 350 became effective january 1, 2016, and increases the amount of renewable energy that must be delivered by most load-serving entities, including the utility, to their customers from 33% of their total annual retail sales by the end of the 2017-2020 compliance period, to 50% of their total annual retail sales by the end of the 2028- 2030 compliance period, and in each three-year compliance period thereafter, unless changed by legislative action. sb 350 provides compliance flexibility and waiver mechanisms, including increased flexibility to apply excess renewable energy procurement in one compliance period to future compliance periods. in september 2018, the california governor signed sb 100 into law, increasing from 50% to 60% of california's electricity portfolio that must come from renewables by 2030; and established state policy that 100 percent of all retail electricity sales must come from rps-eligible or carbon-free resources by 2045. the utility may incur additional costs to procure renewable energy to meet the new renewable energy targets, which the utility expects will continue to be recoverable from customers as pass-through costs. the utility also may be subject to penalties for failure to meet the higher targets. the cpuc is required to open a new rulemaking proceeding to adopt regulations to implement the higher renewable targets. renewable generation resources, for purposes of the rps requirements, include bioenergy such as biogas and biomass, certain hydroelectric facilities (30 mw or less), wind, solar, and geothermal energy. during 2018 , 38.9% of the utility's energy deliveries were from renewable energy sources, exceeding the annual rps target of 28% . approximately 36% of the renewable energy delivered to the utility's customers was purchased from non-qf third parties. additional renewable resources were provided by qfs ( 0.5% ), the utility's small hydroelectric facilities ( 1.5% ), and the utility's solar facilities ( 0.6% ). the total 2018 renewable deliveries shown above were comprised of the following: type gwh percent of bundled retail sales biopower 2,161 4.4 % geothermal 1,816 3.7 % wind 4,861 10 % rps-eligible hydroelectric 1,324 2.7 % solar 8,839 18.1 % total 19,001 38.9 % energy storage as required by california law, the cpuc established a multi-year energy storage procurement framework, including energy storage procurement targets to be achieved by each load-serving entity under the cpuc jurisdiction, including the utility. under the adopted energy storage procurement framework, the utility is required to procure 580 mw of qualifying storage capacity by the end of 2021, with all energy storage projects required to be operational by the end of 2024. the cpuc also adopted biennial interim storage targets for the utility, beginning in 2014 and ending in 2020. under the adopted framework, the utility is required to submit biennial energy storage procurement plans to describe its strategy to meet its interim and total energy storage targets. as of november 2018, the utility had met and exceeded its 2018 interim storage targets and had approximately 35 mw remaining to procure to meet the total storage targets established by the cpuc. this outcome may change in the future if projects under contract are terminated or if projects that have been approved by the cpuc are rejected on rehearing. in 2018, the cpuc approved two proposals for the utility to own incremental battery storage facilities to be constructed by a third party. the llagas energy storage project is a 20 mw project scheduled to come online in 2021. the moss landing project is a 182.5 mw project scheduled to come online by the end of 2020. in addition, the utility currently owns or operates three battery storage facilities, each less than 10 mw. 16 owned generation facilities at december 31, 2018 , the utility owned the following generation facilities, all located in california, listed by energy source and further described below: generation type county location number of units net operating capacity (mw) nuclear (1) : diablo canyon san luis obispo 2 2,240 hydroelectric (2) : conventional 16 counties in northern and central california 102 2,679 helms pumped storage fresno 3 1,212 fossil fuel-fired: colusa generating station colusa 1 657 gateway generating station contra costa 1 580 humboldt bay generating station humboldt 10 163 fuel cell: csu east bay fuel cell alameda 1 1 sf state fuel cell san francisco 2 2 photovoltaic (3) : various 13 152 total 135 7,686 (1) the utility's diablo canyon power plant consists of two nuclear power reactor units, units 1 and 2. the nrc operating licenses expire in 2024 and 2025, respectively. on january 11, 2018, the cpuc approved the utility's application to retire unit 1 by 2024 and unit 2 by 2025. (see diablo canyon nuclear power plant in. item 7. md&amp;a and item 3. legal proceedings.) (2) the utility's hydroelectric system consists of 105 generating units at 66 powerhouses. all of the utility's powerhouses are licensed by the ferc (except for two small powerhouses not subject to ferc licensing requirements), with license terms between 30 and 50 years. (3) the utility's large photovoltaic facilities are cantua solar station (20 mw), five points solar station (15 mw), gates solar station (20 mw), giffen solar station (10 mw), guernsey solar station (20 mw), huron solar station (20 mw ), stroud solar station (20 mw), west gates solar station (10 mw), and westside solar station (15 mw). all of these facilities are located in fresno county, except for guernsey solar station, which is located in kings county. generation resources from third parties the utility has entered into various agreements to purchase power and electric capacity, including agreements for renewable energy resources, in accordance with its cpuc-approved procurement plan. (see ratemaking mechanisms above.) for more information regarding the utility's power purchase agreements, see note 14 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. electricity transmission at december 31, 2018 , the utility owned approximately 18,000 circuit miles of interconnected transmission lines operating at voltages ranging from 60 kv to 500 kv. the utility also operated 84 electric transmission substations with a capacity of approximately 65,000 mva. the utility's electric transmission system is interconnected with electric power systems in the western electricity coordinating council, which includes many western states, alberta and british columbia, and parts of mexico. decisions about expansions and maintenance of the transmission system can be influenced by decisions of the utility's regulators and the caiso. electricity distribution the utility's electric distribution network consists of approximately 107,000 circuit miles of distribution lines (of which approximately 20% are underground and approximately 80% are overhead), 50 transmission switching substations, and 769 distribution substations, with a capacity of approximately 32,000 mva. the utility's distribution network interconnects with its transmission system, primarily at switching and distribution substations, where equipment reduces the high-voltage transmission voltages to lower voltages, ranging from 44 kv to 2.4 kv, suitable for distribution to the utility's customers. 17 these distribution substations serve as the central hubs for the utility's electric distribution network. emanating from each substation are primary and secondary distribution lines connected to local transformers and switching equipment that link distribution lines and provide delivery to end-users. in some cases, the utility sells electricity from its distribution facilities to entities, such as municipal and other utilities, that resell the electricity. the utility operates electric distribution control center facilities in concord, rocklin, and fresno, california; these control centers form a key part of the utility's efforts to create a smarter, more resilient grid. electricity operating statistics the following table shows certain of the utility's operating statistics from 2016 to 2018 for electricity sold or delivered, including the classification of revenues by type of service. no single customer of the utility accounted for 10% or more of consolidated revenues for electricity sold in 2018 , 2017 and 2016 . 2018 2017 2016 customers (average for the year) 5,428,318 5,384,525 5,349,691 deliveries (in gwh) (1) 79,774 82,226 83,017 revenues (in millions): residential $ 5,051 $ 5,693 $ 5,409 commercial 4,908 5,431 5,396 industrial 1,532 1,603 1,525 agricultural 1,234 1,069 1,226 public street and highway lighting 72 79 80 other (2) (720 ) (294 ) (68 ) subtotal 12,077 13,581 13,568 regulatory balancing accounts (3) 636 (344 ) 297 total operating revenues $ 12,713 $ 13,237 $ 13,865 selected statistics: average annual residential usage (kwh) 5,772 6,231 6,115 average billed revenues per kwh: residential $ 0.1838 $ 0.1936 $ 0.1887 commercial 0.1627 0.1716 0.1716 industrial 0.1010 0.1055 0.0990 agricultural 0.1968 0.2041 0.1814 net plant investment per customer $ 7,950 $ 7,486 $ 7,195 (1) these amounts include electricity provided to direct access customers and ccas who procure their own supplies of electricity. (2) this activity is primarily related to provisions for rate refunds and unbilled electric revenue, partially offset by other miscellaneous revenue items. (3) these amounts represent revenues authorized to be billed. natural gas utility operations the utility provides natural gas transportation services to core customers (i.e., small commercial and residential customers) and to non-core customers (i.e., industrial, large commercial, and natural gas-fired electric generation facilities) that are connected to the utility's gas system in its service territory. core customers can purchase natural gas procurement service (i.e. , natural gas supply) from either the utility or non-utility third-party gas procurement service providers (referred to as "core transport agents"). when core customers purchase gas supply from a core transport agent, the utility continues to provide gas delivery, metering and billing services to customers. when the utility provides both transportation and procurement services, the utility refers to the combined service as bundled natural gas service. currently, more than 97% of core customers, representing approximately 80% of the annual core market demand, receive bundled natural gas service from the utility. 18 the utility generally does not provide procurement service to non-core customers, who must purchase their gas supplies from third-party suppliers, unless the customer is a natural gas-fired generation facility that the utility has a power purchase agreement with that includes its generation fuel expense. the utility offers backbone gas transmission, gas delivery (local transmission and distribution), and gas storage services as separate and distinct services to its non-core customers. access to the utility's backbone gas transmission system is available for all natural gas marketers and shippers, as well as non-core customers. the utility also delivers gas to off-system customers (i.e., outside of the utility's service territory) and to third-party natural gas storage customers. natural gas supplies the utility can receive natural gas from all the major natural gas basins in western north america, including basins in western canada, the rocky mountains, and the southwestern united states. the utility can also receive natural gas from fields in california. the utility purchases natural gas to serve its core customers directly from producers and marketers in both canada and the united states. the contract lengths and natural gas sources of the utility's portfolio of natural gas purchase contracts have varied generally based on market conditions. during 2018 , the utility purchased approximately 287,000 mmcf of natural gas (net of the sale of excess supply of gas). substantially all of this natural gas was purchased under contracts with a term of one year or less. the utility's largest individual supplier represented approximately 15% of the total natural gas volume the utility purchased during 2018 . natural gas system assets the utility owns and operates an integrated natural gas transmission, storage, and distribution system that includes most of northern and central california. at december 31, 2018 , the utility's natural gas system consisted of approximately 43,100 miles of distribution pipelines, over 6,400 miles of backbone and local transmission pipelines, and various storage facilities. the utility owns and operates eight natural gas compressor stations on its backbone transmission system and one small station on its local transmission system that are used to move gas through the utility's pipelines. the utility's backbone transmission system, composed primarily of lines 300, 400, and 401, is used to transport gas from the utility's interconnection with interstate pipelines, other local distribution companies, and california gas fields to the utility's local transmission and distribution systems. the utility has firm transportation agreements for delivery of natural gas from western canada to the united states-canada border with transcanada nova gas transmission, ltd. interconnecting downstream with transcanada foothills pipe lines ltd., b.c. system. the foothills system interconnects at the border to the pipeline system owned by gas transmission northwest, llc, which provides natural gas transportation services to a point of interconnection with the utility's natural gas transportation system on the oregon-california border near malin, oregon. the utility also has firm transportation agreements with ruby pipeline, llc to transport natural gas from the u.s. rocky mountains to the interconnection point with the utility's natural gas transportation system in the area of malin, oregon, at the california border. similarly, the utility has firm transportation agreements with transwestern pipeline company, llc and el paso natural gas company to transport natural gas from supply points in the southwestern united states to interconnection points with the utility's natural gas transportation system in the area of california near topock, arizona. the utility also has a transportation agreement with kern river gas transmission company to transport gas from the u.s. rocky mountains to the interconnection point with the utility's natural gas system in the area of daggett, california. (for more information regarding the utility's natural gas transportation agreements, see note 14 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8.) 19 the utility owns and operates three underground natural gas storage fields and has a 25% interest in a fourth storage field, all of which are connected to the utility's transmission system. the utility owns and operates compressors and other facilities at these storage fields that are used to inject gas into the fields for storage and later withdrawal. in addition, four independent storage operators are interconnected to the utility's northern california transmission system. changes to gas storage safety requirements by doggr have led the utility to develop and propose in its 2019 gt&amp;s rate case application a natural gas storage strategy which includes the discontinuation (through closure or sale) of operations at two gas storage fields. (for more information, see regulatory matters in item 7. md&amp;a.) in 2018 , the utility continued upgrading transmission pipeline to allow for the use of in-line inspection tools and continued its work on the final ntsb recommendation from its san bruno investigation to hydrostatically test all high consequence pipeline mileage. the utility currently plans to complete this ntsb recommendation by 2022 for remaining short pipeline segments that include tie-in pieces, fittings or smaller diameter off-takes from the larger transmission pipelines. natural gas operating statistics the following table shows the utility's operating statistics from 2016 through 2018 (excluding subsidiaries) for natural gas, including the classification of revenues by type of service. no single customer of the utility accounted for 10% or more of consolidated revenues for bundled gas sales in 2018 , 2017 and 2016 . 2018 2017 2016 customers (average for the year) (1) 4,495,279 4,467,657 4,442,379 gas purchased (mmcf) 219,061 234,181 208,260 average price of natural gas purchased $ 2.02 $ 2.30 $ 1.83 bundled gas sales (mmcf): residential 156,917 160,969 149,483 commercial 51,357 50,329 46,507 total bundled gas sales 208,274 211,298 195,990 revenues (in millions): bundled gas sales: residential $ 2,042 $ 2,298 $ 1,968 commercial 537 541 439 other 75 (25 ) 149 bundled gas revenues 2,654 2,814 2,556 transportation service only revenue 1,151 976 800 subtotal 3,805 3,790 3,356 regulatory balancing accounts (2) 242 221 446 total operating revenues $ 4,047 $ 4,011 $ 3,802 selected statistics: average annual residential usage (mcf) 38 38 36 average billed bundled gas sales revenues per mcf: residential $ 12.67 $ 14.27 $ 13.10 commercial 9.04 11.36 9.45 net plant investment per customer $ 3,417 $ 3,093 $ 2,808 (1) these amounts include natural gas provided to direct access customers and ccas who procure their own supplies of natural gas. (2) these amounts represent revenues authorized to be billed. 20 competition competition in the electricity industry california law allows qualifying non-residential electric customers of investor-owned electric utilities to purchase electricity from energy service providers rather than from the utilities up to certain annual and overall gwh limits that have been specified for each utility. this arrangement is known as direct access. in addition, california law permits cities, counties, and certain other public agencies that have qualified to become a cca to generate and/or purchase electricity for their local residents and businesses. by law, a cca can procure electricity for all of its residents and businesses that do not affirmatively elect to continue to receive electricity generated or procured by a utility. in 2018 the california legislature passed a bill to expand the statewide da cap by 4,000 gwh, and directed the cpuc to consider whether da should be further expanded. the cpuc is required to issue an order implementing the expansion by june 1, 2019. the utility continues to provide transmission, distribution, metering, and billing services to direct access customers, although these customers can choose to obtain metering and billing services from their energy service provider. the cca customers continue to obtain transmission, distribution, metering, and billing services from the utility. in addition to collecting charges for transmission, distribution, metering, and billing services that it provides, the utility is able to collect charges intended to recover the generation-related costs that the utility incurred on behalf of direct access and cca customers while they were the utility's customers. the utility remains the electricity provider of last resort for these customers. the utility is also impacted by the increasing viability of distributed generation and energy storage. the levels of self-generation of electricity by customers (primarily solar installations) and the use of customer nem, which allows self-generating customers to receive bill credits at the full retail rate, are increasing, putting upward rate pressure on remaining customers. new nem customers are required to pay an interconnection fee, utilize time of use rates, and are required to pay certain non-bypassable charges to help fund some of the costs of low income, energy efficiency, and other programs that other customers pay. significantly higher bills for remaining customers may result in a decline of the number of such customers as they may seek alternative energy providers. the cpuc has indicated that it intends to commence a new proceeding to revisit its rules related to nem customers in 2019. further, in some circumstances, governmental entities such as cities and irrigation districts, which have authority under the state constitution or state statute to provide retail electric service, may seek to acquire the utility's distribution facilities, generally through eminent domain. these same entities may, and sometimes do, construct duplicate distribution facilities to serve existing or new utility customers. the effect of such types of retail competition generally is to reduce the amount of electricity purchased by customers from the utility. the utility also competes for the opportunity to develop and construct certain types of electric transmission facilities within, or interconnected to, its service territory through a competitive bidding process managed by the caiso. (for risks in connection with increasing competition, see item 1a. risk factors.) competition in the natural gas industry the utility competes with other natural gas pipeline companies for customers transporting natural gas into the southern california market on the basis of transportation rates, access to competitively priced supplies of natural gas, and the quality and reliability of transportation services. the utility also competes for storage services with other third-party storage providers, primarily in northern california. 21 environmental regulation the utility's operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and requirements relating to the protection of the environment and the safety and health of the utility's personnel and the public. these laws and requirements relate to a broad range of activities, including the remediation of hazardous and radioactive substances; the discharge of pollutants into the air, water, and soil; the reporting and reduction of co 2 and other ghg emissions; the transportation, handling, storage and disposal of spent nuclear fuel; and the environmental impacts of land use, including endangered species and habitat protection. the penalties for violation of these laws and requirements can be severe and may include significant fines, damages, and criminal or civil sanctions. these laws and requirements also may require the utility, under certain circumstances, to interrupt or curtail operations. (see item 1a. risk factors.) generally, the utility recovers most of the costs of complying with environmental laws and regulations in the utility's rates, subject to reasonableness review. environmental costs associated with the clean-up of most sites that contain hazardous substances are subject to a ratemaking mechanism described in note 14 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. hazardous waste compliance and remediation the utility's facilities are subject to various regulations adopted by the u.s. environmental protection agency, including the resource conservation and recovery act and the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act of 1980 as amended. the utility is also subject to the regulations adopted by other federal agencies responsible for implementing federal environmental laws. the utility also must comply with environmental laws and regulations adopted by the state of california and various state and local agencies. these federal and state laws impose strict liability for the release of a hazardous substance on the (1) owner or operator of the site where the release occurred, (2) on companies that disposed of, or arranged for the disposal of, the hazardous substances, and (3) in some cases, their corporate successors. under the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act, these persons (known as potentially responsible parties ) may be jointly and severally liable for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances, monitoring and paying for the harm caused to natural resources, and paying for the costs of health studies. the utility has a comprehensive program in place to comply with these federal, state, and local laws and regulations. under federal and california laws, the utility may be responsible for remediation of hazardous substances even if it did not deposit those substances on the site. the utility's remediation activities are overseen by the california dtsc, several california regional water quality control boards, and various other federal, state, and local agencies. the utility has incurred significant environmental remediation liabilities associated with former manufactured gas plant sites, power plant sites, gas gathering sites, sites where natural gas compressor stations are located, and sites used by the utility for the storage, recycling, or disposal of potentially hazardous substances. groundwater at the utility's hinkley and topock natural gas compressor stations contains hexavalent chromium as a result of the utility's past operating practices. the utility is responsible for remediating this groundwater contamination and for abating the effects of the contamination on the environment. for more information about environmental remediation liabilities, see note 14 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. air quality and climate change the utility's electric generation plants, natural gas pipeline operations, vehicle fleet, and fuel storage tanks are subject to numerous air pollution control laws, including the federal clean air act, as well as state and local statutes. these laws and regulations cover, among other pollutants, those contributing to the formation of ground-level ozone, co 2 , sulfur dioxide (so 2 ), mono-nitrogen oxide (no x ), particulate matter, and other ghg emissions. federal regulation at the federal level, the epa is charged with implementation and enforcement of the clean air act. although there have been several legislative attempts to address climate change through imposition of nationwide regulatory limits on ghg emissions, comprehensive federal legislation has not yet been enacted. in the absence of federal legislative action, the epa has used its existing authority under the clean air act to address ghg emissions. the federal administration of president donald trump has led to significant uncertainty with regard to what further actions may occur regarding climate change at the federal level. in light of the policy reversal at the federal level, the state of california has indicated that it intends to continue and enhance its leadership on climate change nationally and globally. 22 state regulation california's ab 32, the global warming solutions act of 2006, provides for the gradual reduction of state-wide ghg emissions to 1990 levels by 2020. the carb has approved various regulations to achieve the 2020 target, including ghg emissions reporting and a state-wide, comprehensive cap-and-trade program that sets gradually declining limits (or caps ) on the amount of ghgs that may be emitted by major ghg emission sources within different sectors of the economy. the cap-and-trade program's first compliance period, which began on january 1, 2013, applied to the electric generation and large industrial sectors. the next compliance period, which began on january 1, 2015, expanded to include the natural gas and transportation sectors, effectively covering all the economy's major sectors until 2020. the utility's compliance obligation as a natural gas supplier applies to the ghg emissions attributable to the combustion of natural gas delivered to the utility's customers other than natural gas delivery customers that are separately regulated as covered entities and have their own compliance obligation. during each year of the program, the carb issues emission allowances (i.e., the rights to emit ghgs) equal to the amount of ghg emissions allowed for that year. emitters can obtain allowances from the carb at quarterly auctions or from third parties or exchanges. emitters may also satisfy a portion of their compliance obligation through the purchase of offset credits; e.g., credits for ghg reductions achieved by third parties (such as landowners, livestock owners, and farmers) that occur outside of the emitters' facilities through carb-qualified offset projects such as reforestation or biomass projects. sb 32 (2016) requires that carb ensures a 40% reduction in greenhouse gases by 2030 compared to 1990 levels. in 2017, ab 398 extended the cap-and-trade program to 2030. the utility expects all costs and revenues associated with the ghg cap-and-trade program to be passed through to customers. the california rps program that requires the utilities to gradually increase the amount of renewable energy delivered to their customers is also expected to help reduce ghg emissions in california. in september 2018, sb 100 was signed into law and accelerates the state's 50% rps target to december 31, 2026, increases the rps target to 60% by december 31, 2030, and further amends the rps statute to set a policy of meeting 100% of retail sales from eligible renewables and zero-carbon resources by december 31, 2045. climate change resilience strategies during 2018 , the utility continued its programs to mitigate the impact of the utility's operations (including customer energy usage) on the environment and to plan for the actions that it will need to take to increase its resilience in light of the impacts of climate change on the utility's operations. the utility regularly reviews the most relevant scientific literature on climate change such as rising sea levels, major storm events, increasing temperatures and heatwaves, wildfires, drought and land subsidence, to help the utility identify and evaluate climate change-related risks and develop the necessary resilience strategies. the utility maintains emergency response plans and procedures to address a range of near-term risks, including wildfires, extreme storms, and heat waves and uses its risk-assessment process to prioritize infrastructure investments for longer-term risks associated with climate change. the utility also engages with leaders from business, government, academia, and non-profit organizations to share information and plan for the future. the utility is working to better understand the current and future impacts of climate change. in 2017, the utility filed its first ramp submittal with the cpuc, which examined utility safety risks. the climate resilience ramp model indicated potential additional utility safety consequences due to climate change, including in the near term. the utility is conducting foundational work to help anticipate and plan for evolving conditions in terms of weather and climate-change related events. this work is guiding efforts to design a utility-wide climate change risk integration strategy. this strategy will inform resource planning and investment, operational decisions, and potential additional programs to identify and pursue mitigations that will incorporate the resilience and safety of the utility's assets, infrastructure, operations, employees, and customers. with respect to electric operations, climate scientists project that, sometime in the next several decades, climate change will lead to increased electricity demand due to more extreme, persistent, and frequent hot weather. the utility believes its strategies to reduce ghg emissions through energy efficiency and demand response programs, infrastructure improvements, and the use of renewable energy and energy storage are effective strategies for adapting to the expected changes in demand for electricity. the utility is making substantial investments to build a more modern and resilient system that can better withstand extreme weather and related emergencies. over the long-term, the utility also faces the risk of higher flooding and inundation potential at coastal and low elevation facilities due to sea level rise combined with high tides, storm runoff and storm surges. as the state continues to face increased risk of wildfires, the utility's activities, including vegetation management, will continue to play an important role to help reduce the risk of wildfire and its impact on electric and gas facilities. 23 climate scientists predict that climate change will result in varying temperatures and levels of precipitation in the utility's service territory. this could, in turn, affect the utility's hydroelectric generation. to plan for this potential change, the utility is engaging with state and local stakeholders and is also adopting strategies such as maintaining higher winter carryover reservoir storage levels, reducing discretionary reservoir water releases, and collaborating on research and new modeling tools. with respect to natural gas operations, both safety-related pipeline strength testing and normal pipeline maintenance and operations release the ghg methane into the atmosphere. the utility has taken steps to reduce the release of methane by implementing techniques including drafting and cross-compression, which reduce the pressure and volume of natural gas within pipelines prior to venting. in addition, the utility continues to achieve reductions in methane emissions by implementing improvements in leak detection and repair, upgrades at metering and regulating stations, and maintenance and replacement of other pipeline materials. emissions data pg&amp;e corporation and the utility track and report their annual environmental performance results across a broad spectrum of areas. the utility reports its ghg emissions to the carb and the epa on a mandatory basis. on a voluntary basis, the utility reports a more comprehensive emissions inventory to the climate registry, a non-profit organization. the utility's third-party verified voluntary ghg inventory reported to the climate registry for 2017, the most recent data available, totaled about 46 million metric tonnes of co 2 equivalent, more than three-quarters of which came from customer natural gas use. the following table shows the 2017 ghg emissions data the utility reported to the carb under ab 32. pg&amp;e corporation and the utility also publish additional ghg emissions data in their annual corporate responsibility and sustainability report. source amount (metric tonnes co 2 ) fossil fuel-fired plants (1) 2,292,309 natural gas compressor stations and storage facilities (2) 269,133 distribution fugitive natural gas emissions 630,249 customer natural gas use (3) 38,202,174 (1) includes nitrous oxide and methane emissions from the utility's generating stations. (2) includes emissions from compressor stations and storage facilities that are reportable to carb. (3) includes emissions from the combustion of natural gas delivered to all entities on the utility's distribution system, with the exception of gas delivered to other natural gas local distribution companies. the following table shows the utility's third-party-verified co 2 emissions rate associated with the electricity delivered to customers in 2017 as compared to the national average for electric utilities: amount (pounds of co 2 per mwh) u.s. average (1) 998 pacific gas and electric company (2) 210 (1) source: epa egrid. (2) since the utility purchases a portion of its electricity from the wholesale market, the utility is not able to track some of its delivered electricity back to a specific generator. therefore, there is some unavoidable uncertainty in the utility's emissions rate. air emissions data for utility-owned generation in addition to ghg emissions data provided above, the table below sets forth information about the air emissions from the utility's owned generation facilities. the utility's owned generation (primarily nuclear and hydroelectric facilities) comprised more than one-half of the utility's delivered electricity in 2017. pg&amp;e corporation and the utility also publish air emissions data in their annual corporate responsibility and sustainability report. 2017 2016 total nox emissions (tons) 155 141 nox emissions rate (pounds/mwh) 0.01 0.01 total so 2 14 13 so 2 0.001 0.001 24 water quality in 2014, the epa issued final regulations to implement the requirements of the federal clean water act that require cooling water intake structures at electric power plants, such as the nuclear generation facilities at diablo canyon, to reflect the best technology available to minimize adverse environmental impacts. various industry and environmental groups have challenged the federal regulations in proceedings pending in the u.s. court of appeals for the second circuit. california's once-through cooling policy discussed below is considered to be at least as stringent as the new federal regulations. therefore, california's implementation process for the state policy will likely continue without any significant change. at the state level, in 2010, the california water board adopted a policy on once-through cooling that generally requires the installation of cooling towers or other significant measures to reduce the impact on marine life from existing power generation facilities in california by at least 85%. the policy also provided for an alternative compliance approach for nuclear plants if certain criteria were met. as required by the policy, the california water board appointed a committee to evaluate the feasibility and cost of using alternative technologies to achieve compliance at diablo canyon. the committee's consultant submitted its final report to the california water board in september 2014. the report addressed feasibility, costs and timeframes to install alternative technologies at diablo canyon, such as cooling towers. on june 20, 2016, the utility entered into a joint proposal with certain parties to retire diablo canyon's two nuclear power reactor units at the expiration of their current operating licenses in 2024 and 2025. as a result of the planned retirement, the california water board will no longer need to address alternative compliance measures for diablo canyon. as required under the policy, the utility paid an annual interim mitigation fee beginning in 2017, which it will continue to pay until operations cease in 2025. additionally, the utility expects that its decision to retire diablo canyon will affect the terms of a final settlement agreement between the utility, the central coast board and the california attorney general's office regarding the thermal component of the plant's once-through cooling discharge. (for more information, see diablo canyon nuclear power plant in item 3. legal proceedings below.) nuclear fuel disposal under the nuclear waste policy act of 1982, the doe and electric utilities with commercial nuclear power plants were authorized to enter into contracts under which the doe would be required to dispose of the utilities' spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste by january 1998, in exchange for fees paid by the utilities' customers. the doe has been unable to meet its contractual obligation with the utility to dispose of nuclear waste from the utility's two nuclear generating units at diablo canyon and the retired nuclear facility at humboldt bay. as a result, the utility constructed interim dry cask storage facilities to store its spent fuel onsite at diablo canyon and at humboldt bay until the doe fulfills its contractual obligation to take possession of the spent fuel. the utility and other nuclear power plant owners sued the doe to recover the costs that they incurred to construct interim storage facilities for spent nuclear fuel. in september 2012, the u.s. department of justice and the utility executed a settlement agreement that provided a claims process by which the utility submits annual requests for reimbursement of its ongoing spent fuel storage costs. the claim for the period june 1, 2017 through may 31, 2018, totaled approximately $25 million and is currently under review by the doe. amounts reimbursed by doe are refunded to customers through rates. a new settlement agreement, for costs through 2019 was executed in march 2017. considerable uncertainty continues to exist regarding when and whether the doe will meet its contractual obligation to the utility and other nuclear power plant owners to dispose of spent fuel. item 1a. risk factors pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial results can be affected by many factors, including estimates and assumptions used in the critical accounting policies described in md&amp;a, that can cause their actual financial results to differ materially from historical results or from anticipated future financial results. the following discussion of key risk factors should be considered in evaluating an investment in pg&amp;e corporation and the utility and should be read in conjunction with md&amp;a and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data of this form 10-k. any of these factors, in whole or in part, could materially affect pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows. 25 risks related to chapter 11 proceedings and liquidity pg&amp;e corporation and the utility filed voluntary petitions for relief under chapter 11 and are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with their bankruptcy cases. on the petition date, pg&amp;e corporation and the utility filed voluntary petitions for relief under chapter 11 in the bankruptcy court. for the duration of the chapter 11 cases, the financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows of pg&amp;e corporation and the utility will be subject to various risks, including but not limited to the following: the ability to develop, consummate, and implement a plan of reorganization with respect to pg&amp;e corporation and the utility during the chapter 11 cases; the ability to develop and obtain applicable bankruptcy court, creditor, and regulatory approval of a successful plan of reorganization and the effect of any alternative proposals, views, and objections of official committees, creditors, state and federal regulators, and other stakeholders, which may make it difficult to develop and consummate a successful plan of reorganization in a timely manner; the ability to obtain bankruptcy court approval with respect to motions in the chapter 11 cases and the outcomes of bankruptcy court rulings and of the chapter 11 cases in general; risks associated with third-party motions or adversary proceedings in the chapter 11 cases, which may interfere with business operations, including additional collateral requirements, or the ability to formulate and implement a plan of reorganization; increased costs related to the chapter 11 cases and related litigation; potential for an increase in general unsecured claims as a result of the rejection of any executory contracts or unexpired leases as permitted under the bankruptcy code; the ability to maintain or obtain sufficient financing sources for ongoing operations during the pendency of the chapter 11 cases or thereafter or to fund a plan of reorganization and meet future obligations, including commitments outlined in the utility's 2020 grc and other regulatory proceedings; the potential for a material decrease in the number of counterparties that are willing to engage in transactions, including commodity-related transactions, with pg&amp;e corporation or the utility and a significant increase in the amount of collateral required to engage in any such transactions; the potential for a loss of, or a disruption in the materials or services received from, suppliers, contractors or service providers with whom the utility has commercial relationships or adverse developments in the commercial and financial terms on which such providers engage in such relationships with pg&amp;e corporation and the utility; risks associated with the potential that the utility will not be able to comply with the capital structure requirements authorized by the cpuc, to the extent applicable, during the pendency of the chapter 11 cases or thereafter; potential increased difficulty in retaining and motivating key employees and potential increased difficulty in attracting new employees during the pendency of the chapter 11 cases and thereafter; the significant time and effort required to be spent by senior management in dealing with the chapter 11 cases and restructuring activities rather than focusing exclusively on business operations; and the ability to continue as a going concern. 26 pg&amp;e corporation and the utility will also be subject to risks and uncertainties with respect to the actions and decisions of creditors and other third parties who have claims or interests in the chapter 11 cases that may be inconsistent with pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's plans. these risks and uncertainties could materially affect pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows in various ways that cannot be predicted and may significantly increase the time pg&amp;e corporation and the utility have to operate in chapter 11. because of the risks and uncertainties associated with the chapter 11 cases, it is not possible to predict or quantify the ultimate impact that events occurring during the chapter 11 cases may have on pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows, nor is it possible to predict the ultimate impact that events occurring during the chapter 11 cases may have on pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's corporate and capital structure. pg&amp;e corporation and the utility will be required to seek approvals of the bankruptcy court and certain regulators in connection with the chapter 11 cases, and certain parties may object, intervene and protest approval, absent the imposition of terms or conditions to resolve their concerns. such approvals may be denied, conditioned or delayed. operating under chapter 11 may restrict the ability of pg&amp;e corporation and the utility to pursue strategic and operational initiatives. under chapter 11, transactions outside the ordinary course of business are subject to the prior approval of the bankruptcy court, which may limit pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's ability to respond in a timely manner to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities or to adapt to changing market or industry conditions. these limitations include, among other things, pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's ability to: sell assets outside the normal course of business; make capital investments outside the normal course of business; consolidate or merge or sell or otherwise dispose of assets outside the normal course of business; grant liens; and finance operations, investments or other capital needs or engage in other business activities, including the ability to achieve california's renewable energy goals. pg&amp;e corporation and the utility may experience increased levels of employee attrition as a result of the filing of the chapter 11 cases. as a result of the filing of the chapter 11 cases, pg&amp;e corporation and the utility may experience increased levels of employee attrition, and their employees will likely face considerable distraction and uncertainty. a loss of key personnel or material erosion of employee morale could materially affect pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows. pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's ability to engage, motivate and retain key employees or take other measures intended to motivate and incentivize key employees to remain with pg&amp;e corporation or the utility, as applicable, through the pendency of the chapter 11 cases is limited by restrictions on implementation of retention and incentive programs under the bankruptcy code. the loss of services of members of senior management could impair pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's ability to execute their strategies and implement operational initiatives, which would likely have a material effect on pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows. as a result of the chapter 11 cases, pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's historical financial information may not be indicative of future financial performance. pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's capital structure will likely be significantly altered under any plan of reorganization confirmed by the bankruptcy court. under fresh-start accounting rules that may apply to pg&amp;e corporation and the utility upon the effective date of a plan of reorganization, their assets and liabilities would be adjusted to fair value. accordingly, if fresh-start accounting rules apply, pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition and results of operations following emergence from chapter 11 would not be comparable to the financial condition and results of operations reflected in their historical financial statements. in connection with the chapter 11 cases and the development of a plan of reorganization, it is also possible that additional restructuring and related charges may be identified and recorded in future periods. such charges could be material to pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows. 27 if pg&amp;e corporation and the utility are not able to develop and consummate a consensual plan of reorganization, pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows could be materially affected by a protracted restructuring. pg&amp;e corporation and the utility have commenced the chapter 11 cases without the benefit of a restructuring support agreement or agreed consensual plan of reorganization with any of its creditors or other key constituents. the bankruptcy code gives pg&amp;e corporation and the utility the exclusive right to file a plan of reorganization for 120 days after the filing and, subject to extension for cause, up to a maximum of 18 months from the petition date, and prohibits creditors, equity security holders and others from proposing a plan of reorganization during this period. pg&amp;e corporation and the utility have currently retained the exclusive right to file a plan of reorganization until at least may 29, 2019. if that right is terminated, however, or the exclusivity period is not extended or expires, there could be a material effect on pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's ability to achieve confirmation of a plan of reorganization that would enable pg&amp;e corporation and the utility to reach their stated goals. accordingly, no assurance can be provided as to the length of time during which the chapter 11 cases will be pending, whether a consensual or other plan of reorganization can be successfully developed and consummated, what the terms of any reorganization of pg&amp;e corporation and the utility may be, and what effect any such plan or reorganization would have on the capital structure (or any part thereof) of pg&amp;e corporation and the utility or on any of their respective equity, debt and other stakeholders, including as to matters of taxation and recovery or distributions upon consummation of any plan of reorganization. if pg&amp;e corporation and the utility are not able to develop and consummate a consensual plan of reorganization within the exclusivity period, one or more third parties may propose a competing plan of reorganization. pg&amp;e corporation and the utility may have limited ability to prevent an alternative plan of reorganization from being approved by the bankruptcy court, even if pg&amp;e corporation and the utility do not believe such plan is in their best interest and the best interests of their stakeholders. even if pg&amp;e corporation and the utility are successful in obtaining confirmation of a plan of reorganization following the expiration of their exclusivity period, the process may be lengthy, costly and disruptive. a contested plan of reorganization proceeding would likely have a more pronounced material effect on pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows than a consensual plan of reorganization. even if pg&amp;e corporation and the utility are able to obtain requisite stakeholder approval, the bankruptcy court may not confirm a plan of reorganization. the uncertainty surrounding a prolonged restructuring would also have other material effects on pg&amp;e corporation and the utility including, but not limited to: the ability of pg&amp;e corporation and the utility to raise additional capital; pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's liquidity; how pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's business is viewed by regulators, investors, lenders and credit ratings agencies; pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's enterprise value; and pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's ability to continue as a going concern. pg&amp;e corporation and the utility may be subject to claims that will not be discharged in their chapter 11 cases, which could have a material effect on pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows. the bankruptcy code provides that the confirmation of a plan of reorganization discharges a debtor from substantially all claims arising prior to its filing under chapter 11. with few exceptions, all claims that arose prior to pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's chapter 11 cases: (i) would be subject to compromise and/or treatment under the plan of reorganization and (ii) would be discharged in accordance with the bankruptcy code and the terms of the plan of reorganization. any claims not ultimately discharged through a plan of reorganization could be asserted against the reorganized entities and may have a material effect on pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows on a post-reorganization basis and may cast substantial doubt on pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's ability to continue as a going concern. 28 the dip facilities may be insufficient to fund pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's cash requirements through their emergence from bankruptcy. pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's liquidity, including pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's ability to meet their ongoing operational obligations, is dependent upon, among other things: (i) pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's ability to comply with the terms and conditions of any post-petition financing and cash collateral order entered by the bankruptcy court in connection with the chapter 11 cases, including the financing orders entered with respect to the dip credit agreement, (ii) pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's ability to maintain adequate cash on hand, (iii) pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's ability to generate cash flow from operations, (iv) pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's ability to develop, confirm and consummate a plan of reorganization or other alternative restructuring transaction and (v) the cost, duration and outcome of the chapter 11 cases. for the duration of the chapter 11 cases, pg&amp;e corporation and the utility will be subject to various risks, including but not limited to (i) the inability to maintain or obtain sufficient financing sources for operations or to fund any plan of reorganization and meet future obligations, and (ii) increased legal and other professional costs associated with the chapter 11 cases and the reorganization. pg&amp;e corporation and the utility have entered into the dip credit agreement. as a result of the bankruptcy court's interim approval of the dip credit agreement on january 31, 2019 and the satisfaction of the other conditions thereof, the dip credit agreement became effective on february 1, 2019, and a portion of the dip revolving facility in the amount of $1.5 billion (including $750 million of the letter of credit subfacility) was made available to pg&amp;e corporation and the utility. as of february 28, 2019, the remainder of the dip revolving facility (including the remainder of the $1.5 billion letter of credit subfacility), the dip initial term loan facility and the dip delayed draw term loan facility are unavailable for borrowing and will remain unavailable until and unless the bankruptcy court approves the availability thereof following a final hearing. pg&amp;e corporation and the utility are unable to predict the date of the final hearing, but it is currently scheduled for march 13, 2019. there can be no assurances that the bankruptcy court will grant final approval of the dip facilities at the final hearing, or at all. for more information on the dip credit agreement, see note 4 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. the dip credit agreement will mature on december 31, 2020, subject to the utility's option to extend the maturity to december 31, 2021 if certain terms and conditions are satisfied, including the payment of an extension fee. pg&amp;e corporation and the utility will face uncertainty regarding the adequacy of their liquidity and capital resources during the pendency of the chapter 11 cases, and will have limited, if any, access to additional financing. pg&amp;e corporation and the utility cannot provide assurance that cash on hand, cash flow from operations, distributions received from their subsidiaries and borrowings available under the dip credit agreement will be sufficient to continue to fund operations during the pendency of the chapter 11 cases. the ability of pg&amp;e corporation and the utility to maintain adequate liquidity depends in part upon industry conditions and general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors beyond their control. in the event that cash on hand, cash flow from operations, distributions received from subsidiaries and availability under the dip credit agreement are not sufficient to meet these liquidity needs, pg&amp;e corporation and the utility may be required to seek additional financing, and can provide no assurance that additional financing would be available or, if available, offered on acceptable terms. the dip credit agreement imposes a number of restrictions on pg&amp;e corporation and the utility that may, among other things, limit their ability to conduct their business, or pursue new business opportunities and strategies. additionally, pg&amp;e corporation and the utility may be unable to comply with the covenants imposed by the dip credit agreement. such non-compliance could result in an event of default under the dip credit agreement that, if not cured or waived, could have a material effect on pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows. the dip credit agreement imposes a number of restrictions on pg&amp;e corporation and the utility, including, among other things, affirmative covenants requiring pg&amp;e corporation and the utility to provide financial information, cash flow forecasts, variance reports and other information to the administrative agent. the dip credit agreement also contains general affirmative covenants such as compliance with all applicable laws, maintenance of licenses from necessary governmental authorities, maintenance of property and preservation of corporate existence. negative covenants contained in the dip credit agreement include restrictions on pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, create liens on assets, make investments, loans or advances, engage in mergers, consolidations, sales of assets and acquisitions, pay dividends and distributions, and make payments in respect of junior or pre-petition indebtedness, in each case subject to customary exceptions. the utility's ability to borrow under the dip credit agreement is subject to the satisfaction of certain customary conditions precedent set forth therein. for more information on the dip credit agreement, see note 4 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. 29 as a result of these covenants and restrictions, pg&amp;e corporation and the utility may be limited in their ability to conduct their business, and respond to changing business, market, and economic conditions. these provisions may also limit pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's ability to pursue new business opportunities and strategies. pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond their control and their failure to comply, or obtain a waiver in the event pg&amp;e corporation or the utility cannot comply with a covenant, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing the dip credit agreement that, if not cured or waived, could have a material effect on pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows. pg&amp;e corporation and the utility may not be able to obtain exit financing to, among other things, repay borrowings under the dip credit agreement, and even if they are able to obtain such exit financing, the agreement governing such exit financing may significantly restrict pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financing and operational flexibility. the ability of pg&amp;e corporation and the utility to emerge from bankruptcy will likely depend on obtaining financings from a number of potential sources, and there can be no assurance that any such financings or other potential sources can be obtained expeditiously or on favorable terms, if at all. it is expected that the dip credit agreement will be repaid using, in whole or in part, the proceeds from borrowings under exit financings. pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's ability to obtain such exit financing will depend on, among other things, the timing and outcome of various ongoing matters in the chapter 11 cases, their business, operations and financial condition, and market conditions. there can be no assurance that pg&amp;e corporation and the utility will be able to obtain such exit financings on reasonable economic terms, or at all. if exit financing cannot be obtained, they may not be able to repay the dip credit agreement at maturity or emerge from bankruptcy. any exit financing that pg&amp;e corporation and the utility are able to obtain may include a number of significant restrictive or financial covenants which could impair their financial and operational flexibility and make it difficult to react to market conditions and satisfy their ongoing capital needs and unanticipated cash requirements. the ability of pg&amp;e corporation and the utility to emerge from bankruptcy will likely depend on proceeds received from a number of potential sources. these potential sources may include financings in the capital and credit markets, securitization, proceeds of asset sales or other dispositions, and other potential sources. the ability to execute on any such financings or other potential sources will be subject to a variety of factors, many of which will be beyond the control of pg&amp;e corporation and the utility, and may require consent or other action of federal and state regulators (including the ferc and the cpuc), the state legislature and executive branch, the bankruptcy court, other governmental entities, and other potential sources of third-party financing. there can be no assurance that any such financings or other potential sources can be obtained expeditiously or on favorable terms, if at all. pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming that pg&amp;e corporation and the utility will continue as a going concern. pg&amp;e corporation and the utility are facing extraordinary challenges relating to a series of catastrophic wildfires that occurred in 2018 and 2017. uncertainty regarding these matters raises substantial doubt about pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's abilities to continue as going concerns. in addition, there is inherent uncertainty regarding the outcome of the chapter 11 cases. pg&amp;e corporation and the utility have not included any financial statement adjustments that might result from the outcome of these uncertainties. the accompanying consolidated financial statements to this annual report on form 10-k have been prepared assuming that pg&amp;e corporation and the utility will continue as a going concern. pg&amp;e corporation and the utility are facing extraordinary challenges relating to a series of catastrophic wildfires that occurred in 2018 and 2017. management has concluded that these circumstances raise substantial doubt about pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's ability to continue as going concerns, and their independent registered public accountants have included an explanatory paragraph in their auditors' report which states certain conditions exist which raise substantial doubt about pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's ability to continue as going concerns in relation to the foregoing. in addition, there is inherent uncertainty regarding the outcome of the chapter 11 cases. for further discussion of such uncertainty, see the risk factors above in risks related to chapter 11 proceedings and liquidity in this item 1a. pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's plans in regard to these matters are described in note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. the consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of these uncertainties. see report of independent registered public accounting firm in item 8. 30 trading in pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's securities during the pendency of the chapter 11 cases is highly speculative and poses substantial risks. trading in pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's securities during the pendency of the chapter 11 cases is highly speculative and poses substantial risks. the ultimate recovery, if any, by holders of pg&amp;e corporation's or the utility's securities in the chapter 11 cases could differ substantially from any value that may be implied by the trading prices of such securities at any particular time during the pendency of the chapter 11 cases. risks related to wildfires pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows could be materially affected by potential losses resulting from the impact of the 2018 camp fire and 2017 northern california wildfires, notwithstanding the commencement of the chapter 11 cases. pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows could be materially affected by potential losses resulting from the impact of the 2018 camp fire and 2017 northern california wildfires, notwithstanding the commencement of the chapter 11 cases. as detailed below in note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8, pg&amp;e corporation and the utility are subject to numerous lawsuits in connection with the 2018 camp fire and 2017 northern california wildfires by various plaintiffs, including wildfire victims, insurance carriers, and various government entities, under multiple theories of liability. these lawsuits generally assert that the utility's alleged failure to maintain and repair its distribution and transmission lines and failure to properly maintain the vegetation surrounding such lines were the causes of the 2018 camp fire and 2017 northern california wildfires. due to the commencement of the chapter 11 cases, these plaintiffs have been stayed from continuing to prosecute pending litigation and from commencing new lawsuits against pg&amp;e corporation or the utility on account of pre-petition obligations. pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's obligations with respect to such claims are expected to be determined through the chapter 11 process. if the utility's facilities, such as its electric distribution and transmission lines, are determined to be the substantial cause of one or more fires, and the doctrine of inverse condemnation applies, the utility could be liable for property damage, business interruption, interest, and attorneys' fees without having been found negligent, which liability, in the aggregate, could be substantial and have a material adverse effect on pg&amp;e corporation and the utility, including on pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's ability to develop and consummate a successful plan of reorganization. (see the doctrine of inverse condemnation, if applied by courts in litigation to which pg&amp;e corporation or the utility are subject, could significantly expand the potential liabilities from such litigation and materially affect pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows below.) in addition to such claims for property damage, business interruption, interest, and attorneys' fees, the utility could be liable for fire suppression costs, evacuation costs, medical expenses, personal injury damages, punitive damages, and other damages under other theories of liability, including if the utility were found to have been negligent, which liability, in the aggregate, could be substantial and have a material adverse effect on pg&amp;e corporation and the utility, including on pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's ability to develop and consummate a successful plan of reorganization. among other things, it is uncertain at this time as to the number of wildfire-related claims that will be filed in the chapter 11 cases, the number of current and future claims that will be settled in a plan of reorganization, how claims for punitive damages and claims by variously situated persons will be treated and whether such claims will be allowed, and the impact that historical settlement values for wildfire claims may have on the estimation of wildfire liability in the chapter 11 cases. further, the utility could be subject to material fines or penalties if the cpuc or any law enforcement agency brought an enforcement action, including a criminal proceeding, and determined that the utility failed to comply with applicable laws and regulations. such actions would not be subject to the automatic stay. 31 as described below in note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8, based on information made available by the california department of insurance, insurers have received an aggregate amount of approximately $18.4 billion of insurance claims made as of the dates noted below related to the 2018 camp fire and 2017 northern california wildfires. pg&amp;e corporation and the utility expect that additional claims have been submitted and will continue to be submitted to insurers, particularly with respect to the 2018 camp fire. these claims reflect insured property losses only. the $18.4 billion of insurance claims described below does not account for uninsured or underinsured property losses, interest, attorneys' fees, fire suppression and clean-up costs, evacuation costs, personal injury or wrongful death damages, medical expenses or other costs, such as potential punitive damages, fines or penalties, or damages for claims related to the 2018 camp fire and 2017 northern california wildfires that have not manifested yet ("future claims"), each of which could be significant and could materially affect the financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows of pg&amp;e corporation and the utility. the scope of all claims related to the 2018 camp fire and 2017 northern california wildfires is not known at this time because of the applicable statutes of limitations under california law. pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's obligations with respect to such claims are expected to be determined through the chapter 11 process. if pg&amp;e corporation or the utility were to be found liable for certain or all of the costs, expenses and other losses described above with respect to the 2018 camp fire and 2017 northern california wildfires, the amount of such liability could exceed $30 billion, which amount does not include potential punitive damages, fines and penalties or damages related to future claims. in certain circumstances, pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's liability could be substantially greater than such amount. as a result, pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows could be materially affected. potential liabilities related to the 2018 camp fire and 2017 northern california wildfires depend on various factors, including but not limited to the cause of each fire, contributing causes of the fires (including alternative potential origins, weather and climate related issues), the number, size and type of structures damaged or destroyed, the contents of such structures and other personal property damage, the number and types of trees damaged or destroyed, attorneys' fees for claimants, the nature and extent of any personal injuries, including the loss of lives, the extent to which future claims arise, the amount of fire suppression and clean-up costs, other damages the utility may be responsible for if found negligent, and the amount of any penalties or fines that may be imposed by governmental entities. there are a number of unknown facts and legal considerations that may impact the amount of any potential liability, including the total scope and nature of claims that may be asserted against pg&amp;e corporation and the utility and the treatment of such claims in the chapter 11 cases. for more information about the 2018 camp fire and 2017 northern california wildfires, see 2018 camp fire and 2017 northern california wildfires in note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8. pg&amp;e corporation and the utility are the subject of lawsuits and could be the subject of additional investigations, citations, fines or enforcement actions in connection with the 2018 camp fire and 2017 northern california wildfires. pg&amp;e corporation and the utility are the subject of a number of lawsuits that have been filed against pg&amp;e corporation and the utility in sonoma, napa and san francisco counties' superior courts in connection with the 2018 camp fire and 2017 northern california wildfires, several of which seek to be certified as class actions, asserting damages that include wrongful death, personal injury, property damage, evacuation costs, medical expenses, punitive damages, attorneys' fees, and other damages. insurance carriers who have made payments to their insureds for property damage arising out of the 2017 northern california wildfires have filed 48 subrogation complaints in the san francisco county superior court as of january 28, 2019. these complaints allege, among other things, negligence, inverse condemnation, trespass and nuisance. the allegations are similar to the ones made by individual plaintiffs. insurance carriers have filed 37 similar subrogation complaints with respect to the 2018 camp fire in the sacramento county superior court. further, pg&amp;e corporation and the utility have been named as defendants in securities class action litigation related to the 2017 northern california wildfires and 2018 camp fire. due to the commencement of the chapter 11 cases, these plaintiffs have been stayed from continuing to prosecute pending litigation and from commencing new lawsuits against pg&amp;e corporation or the utility on account of pre-petition obligations. however, pg&amp;e corporation and the utility could be the subject of additional lawsuits on account of obligations arising after the commencement of the chapter 11 cases or the bankruptcy court could lift the automatic stay with respect to such pre-petition obligations. further, pg&amp;e corporation and the utility could be the subject of additional investigations, citations, fines or enforcement actions in connection with the 2018 camp fire and 2017 northern california wildfires. the wildfire litigation could take a number of years to be resolved through the chapter 11 process because of the complexity of the matters, including the ongoing investigation into the causes of the fires and the growing number of parties and claims involved. the ultimate number and allowed amount of such claims are not presently known and cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. 32 if pg&amp;e corporation or the utility were to be found liable for any punitive damages or subject to fines or penalties in connection with the 2018 camp fire and 2017 northern california wildfires, their financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows could be materially affected. if pg&amp;e corporation or the utility were to be found liable for any punitive damages or subject to fines or penalties, the amount of such punitive damages, fines and penalties could be significant and could materially affect pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows, as well as pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's ability to develop and consummate a successful plan of reorganization. the utility has received significant fines and penalties in connection with past incidents. for example, in 2015, the cpuc approved a decision that imposed penalties on the utility totaling $1.6 billion in connection with natural gas explosion that occurred in the city of san bruno on september 9, 2010 (the san bruno explosion ). these penalties represented nearly three times the underlying liability for the san bruno explosion of approximately $558 million incurred for third-party claims, exclusive of shareholder derivative lawsuits and legal costs incurred. the amount of punitive damages, fines and penalties imposed on pg&amp;e corporation or the utility could likewise be a significant amount in relation to the underlying liabilities with respect to the 2018 camp fire and 2017 northern california wildfires. the amount of potential losses resulting from the impact of the 2018 camp fire and 2017 northern california wildfires is expected to greatly exceed the amount of pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's insurance coverage for wildfire events and securing liability insurance in future years is expected to be increasingly difficult and expensive, if available at all. the amount of potential losses resulting from the impact of the 2018 camp fire and 2017 northern california wildfires is expected to greatly exceed the amount of pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's insurance coverage for wildfire events. pg&amp;e corporation and the utility have $842 million of insurance coverage for liabilities, including wildfire events, for the period from august 1, 2017 through july 31, 2018, subject to an initial self-insured retention of $10 million per occurrence and further retentions of approximately $40 million per occurrence. during the third quarter of 2018, pg&amp;e corporation and the utility renewed their liability insurance coverage for wildfire events in an aggregate amount of approximately $1.4 billion for the period from august 1, 2018 through july 31, 2019, comprised of $700 million for general liability (subject to an initial self-insured retention of $10 million per occurrence), and $700 million for property damages only, which property damage coverage includes an aggregate amount of approximately $200 million through the reinsurance market where a catastrophe bond was utilized. in addition, coverage limits within these wildfire insurance policies could result in further material self-insured costs in the event each fire were deemed to be a separate occurrence under the terms of the insurance policies. pg&amp;e corporation and the utility may not be able to recover the full amount of their insurance. if pg&amp;e corporation and the utility are unable to recover the full amount of their insurance, pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows could be materially affected. even if pg&amp;e corporation and the utility were to recover the full amount of their insurance, pg&amp;e corporation and the utility expect their losses in connection with the 2018 camp fire and 2017 northern california wildfires will greatly exceed their available insurance. in addition, it could take a number of years before the utility's final liability in connection with the 2018 camp fire and 2017 northern california wildfires is known and the utility could apply for recovery of costs in excess of insurance. while the cpuc has authorized the utility to track certain wildfire costs in its wema, the utility will be required to submit a separate request with the cpuc in the future for recovery of those costs. the utility may be unable to fully recover costs in excess of insurance through regulatory mechanisms and, even if such recovery is possible, it could take a number of years to resolve and a number of years to collect. if pg&amp;e corporation or the utility were to be found liable for certain or all of the costs, expenses, and other losses described above with respect to the 2018 camp fire and 2017 northern california wildfires, the amount of such liability could exceed $30 billion, which amount does not include potential punitive damages, fines and penalties or damages related to future claims. in certain circumstances, pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's liability could be substantially greater than such amount. for further discussion of the potential magnitude of pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's liability, see pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows could be materially affected by potential losses resulting from the impact of the 2018 camp fire and 2017 northern california wildfires, notwithstanding the commencement of the chapter 11 cases and pg&amp;e corporation and the utility are the subject of lawsuits and could be the subject of additional investigations, citations, fines or enforcement actions in connection with the 2018 camp fire and 2017 northern california wildfires above. 33 accordingly, pg&amp;e corporation and the utility expect losses in connection with the 2018 camp fire and 2017 northern california wildfires will greatly exceed their available insurance. pg&amp;e corporation and the utility also expect to face increasing difficulty securing liability insurance in future years due to availability and to face significantly increased insurance costs. pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's obligations with respect to such claims are expected to be determined through the chapter 11 process. pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows could be materially affected by the ultimate amount of third-party liability of the utility in connection with the 2015 butte fire. pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows could be materially affected by the ultimate amount of third-party liability that the utility incurs in connection with the 2015 butte fire. as described below in note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8, pg&amp;e corporation and the utility are subject to numerous lawsuits in connection with the 2015 butte fire by various plaintiffs, including individual plaintiffs, insurance carriers, and various government entities, under multiple theories of liability. plaintiffs also seek punitive damages. the number of individual claimants may still increase in the future through the chapter 11 process. in connection with the 2015 butte fire, the utility may be liable for property damages, interest, and attorneys' fees without having been found negligent, through the doctrine of inverse condemnation. (see the doctrine of inverse condemnation, if applied by courts in litigation to which pg&amp;e corporation or the utility are subject, could significantly expand the potential liabilities from such litigation and materially affect pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows below.) in addition, the utility may be liable for fire suppression costs, personal injury damages, and other damages if the utility were found to have been negligent. pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's obligations with respect to such claims are expected to be determined through the chapter 11 process. while the utility believes it was not negligent, there can be no assurance that a court would agree with the utility. the utility currently believes that it is probable that it will incur a loss of $1.1 billion in connection with the 2015 butte fire. while this amount includes the utility's assumptions about fire suppression costs (including its assessment of the cal fire loss), it does not include any portion of the estimated claim from the oes. the utility still does not have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the probable loss it may have for that additional claim. a change in management's estimates or assumptions could result in an adjustment that could have a material effect on pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows, as well as pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's ability to develop and consummate a successful plan of reorganization. (see note 13 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8.) if the utility is unable to recover all or a significant portion of its excess costs in connection with the 2018 camp fire and 2017 northern california wildfires and the 2015 butte fire through ratemaking mechanisms and in a timely manner, pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows could be materially affected. as of december 31, 2018, the utility incurred substantial costs in connection with the 2018 camp fire and 2017 northern california wildfires and the 2015 butte fire in excess of costs currently in rates, some of which currently are or are expected to be recorded in the future in its wema, cema and fhpma accounts. there can be no assurance that the utility will be allowed to recover costs recorded in those accounts in the future, even if a court decision were to determine that the utility is liable as a result of the application of the doctrine of inverse condemnation. for example, while the cpuc previously approved wema tracking accounts for san diego gas &amp; electric company in 2010, in december 2017, the cpuc denied recovery of costs that san diego gas &amp; electric company stated it incurred as a result of the doctrine of inverse condemnation, holding that the inverse condemnation principles of strict liability are not relevant to the cpuc's prudent manager standard. san diego gas &amp; electric, the utility, and southern california edison filed requests for rehearing of that decision. on july 12, 2018, the cpuc voted out a decision denying the requests for rehearing. on november 13, 2018, the california court of appeal denied san diego gas &amp; electric's petition for writ of review, and on january 30, 2019, the california supreme court denied san diego gas &amp; electric's petition for review. 34 sb 901, signed into law on september 21, 2018, requires the cpuc to establish a customer harm threshold, directing the cpuc to limit certain disallowances in the aggregate, so that they do not exceed the maximum amount that the utility can pay without harming ratepayers or materially impacting its ability to provide adequate and safe service (the customer harm threshold ). sb 901 also authorizes the cpuc to issue a financing order that permits recovery, through the issuance of recovery bonds (also referred to as securitization ), of wildfire-related costs found to be just and reasonable by the cpuc and, only for the 2017 northern california wildfires, any amounts in excess of the customer harm threshold. sb 901 does not authorize securitization with respect to possible 2018 camp fire costs, as the bill does not address fires that occurred in 2018. on january 10, 2019, the cpuc adopted an oir, which establishes a process to develop criteria and a methodology to inform determinations of the customer harm threshold in future applications under section 451.2(a) of the public utilities code for cost recovery of 2017 wildfire costs. in the oir, the cpuc stated that consistent with section 451.2(a), the determination of what costs and expenses are just and reasonable must be made in the context of an application for the recovery of specific costs related to the 2017 wildfires. based on the cpuc's interpretation of section 451.2 as outlined in the oir, pg&amp;e corporation and the utility believe that any securitization of costs relating to the 2017 northern california wildfires would not occur, if at all, until (a) the utility has paid claims relating to the 2017 northern california wildfires, (b) the utility has filed application for recovery of such costs, and (c) the cpuc makes a determination that such costs are just and reasonable or in excess of the customer harm threshold. pg&amp;e corporation and the utility therefore do not expect the cpuc to permit the utility to securitize costs relating to the 2017 northern california wildfires on an expedited or emergency basis. based on the oir, as well as prior experience and precedent, and unless the cpuc alters the position expressed in the oir, pg&amp;e corporation and the utility believe it likely would take years to obtain authorization to securitize any amounts relating to the 2017 northern california wildfires. on february 11, 2019, pg&amp;e corporation and the utility filed opening comments in response to the oir in which they argued, among other things, the cpuc should (1) promptly set a customer harm threshold, or at least define the methodology for setting the customer harm threshold with sufficient specificity to enable pg&amp;e corporation and the utility and potential investors to anticipate that amount; (2) determine the customer harm threshold based on the capital needed to resolve claims arising from both the 2018 camp fire and 2017 northern california wildfires to be provided for in a plan of reorganization; (3) define how the customer harm threshold will be applied to any future wildfires; and (4) establish the customer harm threshold based on the amount of debt pg&amp;e corporation and the utility can raise. based on assumptions set forth in the comments, pg&amp;e corporation and the utility indicated that they could borrow up to approximately $3 billion to fund wildfire claims costs as part of a plan of reorganization. the inability to recover all or a significant portion of costs in excess of insurance through increases in rates and by collecting such rates in a timely manner could have a material effect on pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows. pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows could be materially affected in the event of non-compliance with the terms of probation or in the event of modifications to the conditions of probation. pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows could be materially affected in the event of non-compliance with the terms of probation or in the event of modifications to the conditions of probation. on january 26, 2017, following the federal criminal trial against the utility in connection with the san bruno explosion, in which the utility was found guilty on six felony counts, the utility was sentenced to, among other things, a five-year corporate probation period and oversight by a third-party monitor for a period of five years, with the ability to apply for early termination after three years. the probation includes a requirement that the utility not commit any local, state, or federal crimes during the probation period. as part of the probation, the utility has retained a third-party monitor at the utility's expense. the goal of the third-party monitor is to help ensure that the utility takes reasonable and appropriate steps to maintain the safety of its gas and electric operations, and to maintain effective ethics, compliance and safety related incentive programs on a utility-wide basis. 35 in 2018 and 2019, the court overseeing the utility's probation, issued various orders related to the utility's probation. on november 27, 2018, the court issued an order requiring that the utility, the united states attorney's office for the northern district of california and the third-party monitor provide written answers to a series of questions regarding the utility's compliance with the terms of its probation. on december 5, 2018, the court issued an order requesting that the office of the california attorney general advise the court of its view on the extent to which, if at all, the reckless operation or maintenance of pg&amp;e power lines would constitute a crime under california law. the response of the utility was submitted on december 31, 2018. on january 3, 2019 and january 4, 2019, the court issued two new orders requesting further information regarding each of the eighteen october 2017 northern california wildfires that cal fire has attributed to the utility's facilities, and the utility submitted its responses on january 10, 2019. on january 9, 2019, the court ordered the utility to appear in court on january 30, 2019, as a result of the court's finding that there is probable cause to believe there has been a violation of the conditions of supervision with respect to reporting requirements related to the 2017 honey fire. in addition, on january 9, 2019, the court issued an order proposing to add new conditions of probation and ordered the utility to show cause by january 23, 2019, as to why the utility's conditions of probation should not be modified as proposed. the utility's response was submitted on january 23, 2019. on january 30, 2019, the court found that the utility had violated a condition of its probation with respect to reporting requirements related to the 2017 honey fire. the court issued an order stating that a sentencing hearing on the probation violation will be set at a later date. for more information about the utility's probation and the court's orders, see u.s. district court matters and probation" in item 3. legal proceedings and "u.s. district court matters and probation in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8. such proceedings are not subject to the automatic stay imposed as a result of the commencement of the chapter 11 cases. the utility could incur material costs, not recoverable through rates, in the event of non-compliance with the terms of its probation and in connection with the monitorship (including but not limited to costs resulting from recommendations of the third-party monitor). the utility could also incur material costs, not recoverable through rates, in the event of modifications to the conditions of its probation. the utility's conviction and the outcome of probation could harm the utility's relationships with customers, regulators, legislators, communities, business partners, or other constituencies and make it more difficult to recruit qualified personnel and senior management. further, they could negatively affect the outcome of future ratemaking and regulatory proceedings, for example, by enabling parties to argue that the utility should not be allowed to recover costs that the parties allege are somehow related to the criminal charges on which the utility was found guilty. they could also result in increased regulatory or legislative scrutiny with respect to various aspects of how the utility's business is conducted or organized. (see enforcement and litigation matters in item 7. md&amp;a.) the doctrine of inverse condemnation, if applied by courts in litigation to which pg&amp;e corporation or the utility are subject, could significantly expand the potential liabilities from such litigation and materially affect pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows. california law includes a doctrine of inverse condemnation that is routinely invoked in california. inverse condemnation imposes strict liability (including liability for attorneys' fees) for damages as a result of the design, construction and maintenance of utility facilities, including utilities' electric transmission lines. courts have imposed liability under the doctrine of inverse condemnation in legal actions brought by property holders against utilities on the grounds that losses borne by the person whose property was damaged through a public use undertaking should be spread across the community that benefitted from such undertaking, and based on the assumption that utilities have the ability to recover these costs from their customers. plaintiffs have asserted the doctrine of inverse condemnation in lawsuits related to the 2018 camp fire and 2017 northern california wildfires and the 2015 butte fire, and it is possible that plaintiffs could be successful in convincing courts to apply this doctrine in these or other litigations. for example, on june 22, 2017, the superior court for the county of sacramento found that the doctrine of inverse condemnation applies to the utility with respect to the 2015 butte fire. although the utility has filed a renewed motion for a legal determination of inverse condemnation liability, there can be no assurance that the utility will be successful in its arguments that the doctrine of inverse condemnation does not apply in the 2015 butte fire or other litigation against pg&amp;e corporation or the utility. furthermore, a court could determine that the doctrine of inverse condemnation applies even in the absence of an open cpuc proceeding for cost recovery, or before a potential cost recovery decision is issued by the cpuc. although the imposition of liability is premised on the assumption that utilities have the ability to automatically recover these costs from their customers, there can be no guarantee that the cpuc would authorize cost recovery whether or not a previous court decision imposes liability on a utility under the doctrine of inverse condemnation. in december 2017, the cpuc denied recovery of costs that san diego gas &amp; electric company stated it incurred as a result of the doctrine of inverse condemnation, holding that the inverse condemnation principles of strict liability are not relevant to the cpuc's prudent manager standard. that determination is being challenged by san diego gas &amp; electric as well as by the utility and southern california edison. 36 if pg&amp;e corporation or the utility were to be found liable for damage under the doctrine of inverse condemnation, but is unable to secure a cost recovery decision from the cpuc to pay for such costs through increases in rates or to collect such rates in a timely manner, the financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows of pg&amp;e corporation and the utility would be materially affected by potential losses resulting from the impact of the 2018 camp fire and 2017 northern california wildfires. (see pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows could be materially affected by potential losses resulting from the impact of the 2018 camp fire and 2017 northern california wildfires, notwithstanding the commencement of the chapter 11 cases , pg&amp;e corporation and the utility are the subject of lawsuits and could be the subject of additional investigations, citations, fines or enforcement actions in connection with the 2018 camp fire and 2017 northern california wildfires and pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows could be materially affected by the ultimate amount of third-party liability of the utility in connection with the 2015 butte fire above.) risks related to the outcome of other enforcement matters, investigations, and regulatory proceedings pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial results could be materially affected as a result of legislative and regulatory developments. the utility's financial results could be materially affected as a result of sb 901 adopted in 2018 by the california legislature. in december 2018, the cpuc opened an oir in connection with sb 901 that will adopt criteria and a methodology for use by the cpuc in future applications for cost recovery of wildfire costs. following sb 901, in applications for cost recovery in connection with the 2017 wildfires, the cpuc is expected to consider the utility's financial status and determine the maximum amount the utility can pay without harming customers or materially impacting its ability to provide adequate and safe service, and ensure that the costs or expenses that are disallowed for recovery in rates assessed for the wildfires, in the aggregate, do not exceed that amount. the utility is unable to predict the timing or outcome of such future determination by the cpuc and its impact on pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows. in addition, sb 901 requires utilities to submit annual wildfire mitigation plans for approval by the cpuc on a schedule to be established by the cpuc. sb 901 establishes factors to be considered by the cpuc when setting penalties for failure to substantially comply with the plan. the utility is unable to predict the timing or outcome of the cpuc's review of the wildfire mitigation plan, the results of the cpuc compliance review of wildfire mitigation plan implementation, or the timing or extent of cost recovery for wildfire mitigation plan activities. (see regulatory matters - other regulatory proceedings in item 7. md&amp;a.) finally, sb 901 established a commission on catastrophic wildfire cost and recovery to evaluate wildfire reforms, including inverse condemnation reform, a potential state wildfire insurance fund, and other wildfire mitigation measures. the recommendations of the cpuc and the response by the governor and legislature to those recommendations could materially affect pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows. (see regulatory matters - legislative and regulatory initiatives in item 7. md&amp;a.) the utility is subject to extensive regulations and the risk of enforcement proceedings in connection with such regulations, pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows could be materially affected by the outcomes of the cpuc's investigative enforcement proceedings against the utility, other known enforcement matters, and other ongoing state and federal investigations and requests for information. the utility could incur material costs and fines in connection with compliance with penalties from closed investigations or enforcement actions or in connection with future investigations, citations, audits, or enforcement actions. the utility is subject to extensive regulations, including federal, state and local energy, environmental and other laws and regulations, and the risk of enforcement proceedings in connection with such regulations. the utility could incur material charges, including fines and other penalties, in connection with the ex parte oii, safety culture oii, the locate and mark oii, and other matters that the cpuc's sed may be investigating. the sed could launch investigations at any time on any issue it deems appropriate. such proceedings are likely not subject to the automatic stay imposed as a result of the commencement of the chapter 11 cases; however, collection efforts in connection with fines or penalties arising out of such proceedings are stayed. 37 the sed has discretion whether to issue a penalty for each violation, but if it assesses a penalty for a violation, it is required to impose the maximum statutory penalty of $50,000, with an administrative limit of $8 million per citation issued. for offenses occurred after january 1, 2019, the maximum statutory penalty is $100,000, as provided in sb 901. the sed may, at its discretion, impose penalties on a daily basis, or on less than a daily basis, for violations that continued for more than one day. while it is uncertain how the cpuc will calculate the number of violations or the penalty for any violations, such fines or penalties could be significant and materially affect pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's liquidity and results of operations. (see regulatory environment in item 1. business and note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8.) the utility also is a target of a number of investigations, in addition to certain investigations in connection with the wildfires. (see "risks related to wildfires," above.) in 2014, both the u.s. attorney's office in san francisco and the california attorney general's office opened investigations into matters related to allegedly improper communication between the utility and cpuc personnel. the utility also is unable to predict the outcome of, or costs and expenses associate with, pending investigations, including whether any charges will be brought against the utility. if these investigations result in enforcement action against the utility, the utility could incur additional fines or penalties the amount of which could be substantial and, in the event of a judgment against the utility, suffer further ongoing negative consequences. furthermore, a negative outcome in any of these investigations, or future enforcement actions, could negatively affect the outcome of future ratemaking and regulatory proceedings to which the utility may be subject; for example, by enabling parties to challenge the utility's request to recover costs that the parties allege are somehow related to the utility's violations. (see also pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows could be materially affected in the event of non-compliance with the terms of probation or in the event of modifications to the conditions of probation above.) the utility could be subject to additional regulatory or governmental enforcement action in the future with respect to compliance with federal, state or local laws, regulations or orders that could result in additional fines, penalties or customer refunds, including those regarding renewable energy and resource adequacy requirements; customer billing; customer service; affiliate transactions; vegetation management; design, construction, operating and maintenance practices; safety and inspection practices; compliance with cpuc general orders or other applicable cpuc decisions or regulations; federal electric reliability standards; and environmental compliance. cpuc staff could also impose penalties on the utility in the future in accordance with its authority under the gas and electric safety citation programs. the amount of such fines, penalties, or customer refunds could have a material effect on pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows. pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial results primarily depend on the outcomes of regulatory and ratemaking proceedings and the utility's ability to manage its operating expenses and capital expenditures so that it is able to earn its authorized rate of return in a timely manner. as a regulated entity, the utility's rates are set by the cpuc or the ferc on a prospective basis and are generally designed to allow the utility to collect sufficient revenues to recover reasonable costs of providing service, including a return on its capital investments. pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial results could be materially affected if the cpuc or the ferc does not authorize sufficient revenues for the utility to safely and reliably serve its customers and earn its authorized roe. the outcome of the utility's ratemaking proceedings can be affected by many factors, including the level of opposition by intervening parties; potential rate impacts; increasing levels of regulatory review; changes in the political, regulatory, or legislative environments; and the opinions of the utility's regulators, consumer and other stakeholder organizations, and customers, about the utility's ability to provide safe, reliable, and affordable electric and gas services. further, the increasing amount of reliability must run ( rmr ) electric generation in the caiso could increase the utility's costs of procuring capacity needed for reliable service to its customers. in addition to the amount of authorized revenues, pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial results could be materially affected if the utility's actual costs to safely and reliably serve its customers differ from authorized or forecast costs. the utility may incur additional costs for many reasons including changing market circumstances, unanticipated events (such as wildfires, storms, earthquakes, accidents, or catastrophic or other events affecting the utility's operations), or compliance with new state laws or policies. although the utility may be allowed to recover some or all of the additional costs, there may be a substantial time lag between when the utility incurs the costs and when the utility is authorized to collect revenues to recover such costs. alternatively, the cpuc or the ferc may disallow costs that they determine were not reasonably or prudently incurred by the utility. 38 the utility also is required to incur costs to comply with legislative and regulatory requirements and initiatives, such as those relating to the development of a state-wide electric vehicle charging infrastructure, the deployment of distributed energy resources, implementation of demand response and customer energy efficiency programs, energy storage and renewable energy targets, underground gas storage, and the construction of the california high-speed rail project. the utility's ability to recover costs, including its investments, associated with these and other legislative and regulatory initiatives will depend, in large part, on the final form of legislative or regulatory requirements, and whether the associated ratemaking mechanisms can be timely adjusted to reflect a lower customer demand for the utility's electricity and natural gas services. pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial results depend upon the utility's continuing ability to recover pass-through costs, including electricity and natural gas procurement costs, from customers in a timely manner. the cpuc may disallow procurement costs for a variety of reasons. in addition, the utility's ability to recover these costs could be affected by the loss of utility customers and decreased new customer growth, if the cpuc fails to adjust the utility's rates to reflect such events. the utility meets customer demand for electricity from a variety of sources, including electricity generated from the utility's own generation facilities, electricity provided by third parties under power purchase agreements, and purchases on the wholesale electricity market. the utility must manage these sources using the commercial and cpuc regulatory principles of least cost dispatch and prudent administration of power purchase agreements in compliance with its cpuc-approved long-term procurement plan. the cpuc could disallow procurement costs incurred by the utility if the cpuc determines that the utility did not comply with these principles or if the utility did not comply with its procurement plan. further, the contractual prices for electricity under the utility's current or future power purchase agreements could become uneconomic in the future for a variety of reasons, including developments in alternative energy technology, increased self-generation by customers, an increase in distributed generation, and lower customer demand due to adverse economic conditions or the loss of the utility's customers to other retail providers. despite the cpuc's current approval of the contracts, the cpuc could disallow contract costs in the future if it determines that the terms of such contracts, including price, do not meet the cpuc reasonableness standard. the utility's ability to recover the costs it incurs in the wholesale electricity market may be affected by whether the caiso wholesale electricity market continues to function effectively. although market mechanisms are designed to limit excessive prices, these market mechanisms could fail, or the related systems and software on which the market mechanisms rely may not perform as intended which could result in excessive market prices. the cpuc could prohibit the utility from passing through the higher costs of electricity to customers. further, pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial results could be affected by the loss of utility customers and decreasing bundled load that occurs through municipalization of the utility's facilities, an increase in the number of ccas who provide electricity to their residents, and an increase in the number of consumers who become direct access customers of alternative generation providers. (see competition in the electricity industry in item 1.) as the number of bundled customers (i.e., those customers who receive electricity and distribution service from the utility) declines, the rates for remaining customers could increase as the utility would have a smaller customer base from which to recover certain procurement costs. although the utility is permitted to collect non-bypassable charges for above market generation-related costs incurred on behalf of former customers, the charges may not be sufficient for the utility to fully recover these costs. in addition, the utility's ability to collect non-bypassable charges has been, and may continue to be, challenged by certain customer groups. furthermore, if the former customers return to receiving electricity supply from the utility, the utility could incur costs to meet their electricity needs that it may not be able to timely recover through rates or that it may not be able to recover at all. in addition, increasing levels of self-generation of electricity by customers (primarily solar installations) and the use of customer nem, which allows self-generating customers to receive bill credits for surplus power at the full retail rate, puts upward rate pressure on remaining customers, who may incur significantly higher bills due to an increase in customers seeking alternative energy providers. 39 a confluence of technology-related cost declines and sustained federal or state subsidies could make a combination of distributed generation and energy storage a viable, cost-effective alternative to the utility's bundled electric service which could further threaten the utility's ability to recover its generation, transmission, and distribution investments. if the number of the utility's customers decreases or grows at a slower rate than anticipated, the utility's level of authorized capital investment could decline as well, leading to a slower growth in rate base and earnings. reduced energy demand or significantly slowed growth in demand due to customer migration to other energy providers, adoption of energy efficient technology, conservation, increasing levels of distributed generation and self-generation, unless substantially offset through regulatory cost allocations, could materially affect pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows. further, changes in commodity prices also may have an adverse effect on the utility's ability to timely recover its operating costs and earn its authorized roe. although the utility generally recovers its electricity and natural gas procurement costs from customers as pass-through costs, a significant and sustained rise in commodity prices could create overall rate pressures that make it more difficult for the utility to recover its costs that are not categorized as pass-through costs. to relieve some of this upward rate pressure, the cpuc could authorize lower revenues than the utility requested or disallow full cost recovery. if the utility is unable to recover a material portion of its procurement costs and/or if the cpuc fails to adjust the utility's rates to reflect the impact of changing loads, the wide deployment of distributed generation, and the development of new electricity generation and energy storage technologies, pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows could be materially affected. risks related to operations and information technology the utility's electricity and natural gas operations are inherently hazardous and involve significant risks which, if they materialize, can materially affect pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows. the utility owns and operates extensive electricity and natural gas facilities, including two nuclear generation units and an extensive hydroelectric generating system. (see electric utility operations and natural gas utility operations in item 1. business above.) the utility's ability to earn its authorized roe depends on its ability to efficiently maintain, operate, and protect its facilities, and provide electricity and natural gas services safely and reliably. the utility undertakes substantial capital investment projects to construct, replace, and improve its electricity and natural gas facilities. in addition, the utility is obligated to decommission its electricity generation facilities at the end of their useful operating lives, and the cpuc approved retirement of diablo canyon by 2024 and 2025. the utility's ability to safely and reliably operate, maintain, construct and decommission its facilities is subject to numerous risks, many of which are beyond the utility's control, including those that arise from: the breakdown or failure of equipment, electric transmission or distribution lines, or natural gas transmission and distribution pipelines, that can cause explosions, fires, or other catastrophic events; an overpressure event occurring on natural gas facilities due to equipment failure, incorrect operating procedures or failure to follow correct operating procedures, or welding or fabrication-related defects, that results in the failure of downstream transmission pipelines or distribution assets and uncontained natural gas flow; the failure to maintain adequate capacity to meet customer demand on the gas system that results in customer curtailments, controlled/uncontrolled gas outages, gas surges back into homes, serious personal injury or loss of life; a prolonged statewide electrical black-out that results in damage to the utility's equipment or damage to property owned by customers or other third parties; the failure to fully identify, evaluate, and control workplace hazards that result in serious injury or loss of life for employees or the public, environmental damage, or reputational damage; the release of radioactive materials caused by a nuclear accident, seismic activity, natural disaster, or terrorist act; the failure of a large dam or other major hydroelectric facility, or the failure of one or more levees that protect land on which the utility's assets are built; 40 the failure to take expeditious or sufficient action to mitigate operating conditions, facilities, or equipment, that the utility has identified, or reasonably should have identified, as unsafe, which failure then leads to a catastrophic event (such as a wild land fire or natural gas explosion); inadequate emergency preparedness plans and the failure to respond effectively to a catastrophic event that can lead to public or employee harm or extended outages; operator or other human error; an ineffective records management program that results in the failure to construct, operate and maintain a utility system safely and prudently; construction performed by third parties that damages the utility's underground or overhead facilities, including, for example, ground excavations or dig-ins that damage the utility's underground pipelines; the release of hazardous or toxic substances into the air, water, or soil, including, for example, gas leaks from natural gas storage facilities; flaking lead-based paint from the utility's facilities, and leaking or spilled insulating fluid from electrical equipment; and attacks by third parties, including cyber-attacks, acts of terrorism, vandalism, or war. the occurrence of any of these events could interrupt fuel supplies; affect demand for electricity or natural gas; cause unplanned outages or reduce generating output; damage the utility's assets or operations; damage the assets or operations of third parties on which the utility relies; damage property owned by customers or others; and cause personal injury or death. as a result, the utility could incur costs to purchase replacement power, to repair assets and restore service, and to compensate third parties. any of such incidents also could lead to significant claims against the utility. further, although the utility often enters into agreements for third-party contractors to perform work, such as patrolling and inspection of facilities or the construction or demolition or facilities, the utility may retain liability for the quality and completion of the contractor's work and can be subject to penalties or other enforcement action if the contractor violates applicable laws, rules, regulations, or orders. the utility may also be subject to liability, penalties or other enforcement action as a result of personal injury or death caused by third-party contractor actions. insurance, equipment warranties, or other contractual indemnification requirements may not be sufficient or effective to provide full or even partial recovery under all circumstances or against all hazards or liabilities to which the utility may become subject. an uninsured loss could have a material effect on pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows. the utility's insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover losses caused by an operating failure or catastrophic events, including severe weather events, or may not be available at a reasonable cost, or available at all. the utility has experienced increased costs and difficulties in obtaining insurance coverage for wildfires that could arise from the utility's ordinary operations. pg&amp;e corporation, the utility or its contractors and customers could continue to experience coverage reductions and/or increased wildfire insurance costs in future years. no assurance can be given that future losses will not exceed the limits of the utility's insurance coverage. uninsured losses and increases in the cost of insurance may not be recoverable in customer rates. a loss that is not fully insured or cannot be recovered in customer rates could materially affect pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows. as a result of the potential application to investor-owned utilities of a strict liability standard under the doctrine of inverse condemnation, recent losses recorded by insurance companies, the risk of increased wildfires including as a result of the ongoing drought, the 2018 camp fire, the 2017 northern california wildfires, and the 2015 butte fire, the utility may not be able to obtain sufficient insurance coverage in the future at a reasonable cost, or at all. in addition, the utility is unable to predict whether it would be allowed to recover in rates the increased costs of insurance or the costs of any uninsured losses. if the amount of insurance is insufficient or otherwise unavailable, or if the utility is unable to obtain insurance at a reasonable cost or recover in rates the costs of any uninsured losses, pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows could be materially affected. 41 the electric power industry is undergoing significant change driven by technological advancements and a decarbonized economy, which could materially affect the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows. the electric power industry is undergoing transformative change driven by technological advancements enabling customer choice (for example, customer-owned generation and energy storage) and state climate policy supporting a decarbonized economy. the electric grid is a critical enabler of the adoption of new energy technologies that support california's climate change and ghg reduction objectives, which continue to be publicly supported by california policymakers. california's environmental policy objectives are accelerating the pace and scope of the industry change. for instance, sb 100, which was signed into law on september 10, 2018, increases from 50% to 60%, the percentage of california's electricity portfolio that must come from renewables by 2030. sb 100 establishes a further goal to have an electric grid that is entirely powered by clean energy by 2045. california utilities also are experiencing increasing deployment by customers and third parties of ders, such as on-site solar generation, energy storage, fuel cells, energy efficiency, and demand response technologies. these developments will require modernization of the electric distribution grid to, among other things, accommodate two-way flows of electricity, increase the grid's capacity, and interconnect ders. in order to enable the california clean energy economy, sustained investments are required in grid modernization, renewable integration projects, energy efficiency programs, energy storage options, ev infrastructure and state infrastructure modernization (e.g. rail and water projects). to this end, the cpuc is conducting proceedings to: evaluate changes to the planning and operation of the electric distribution grid in order to prepare for higher penetration of ders and, consider future grid modernization and grid reinforcement investments; evaluate if traditional grid investments can be deferred by ders, and if feasible, what, if any, compensation to utilities would be appropriate for enabling those investments; and clarify the role of the electric distribution grid operator. the cpuc also authorized development of two new, five-year programs aimed at accelerating widespread electric vehicle adoption and combating climate change. the new programs will increase fast charging options for consumers as well as electric charging infrastructure for non-light-duty fleet vehicles. the industry change, costs associated with complying with new regulatory developments and initiatives and with technological advancements, or the utility's inability to successfully adapt to changes in the electric industry, could materially affect the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows. a cyber incident, cyber security breach, severe natural event or physical attack on the utility's operational networks and information technology systems could have a material effect on its financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows. the utility's electricity and natural gas systems rely on a complex, interconnected network of generation, transmission, distribution, control, and communication technologies, which can be damaged by natural events-such as severe weather or seismic events-and by malicious events, such as cyber and physical attacks. private and public entities, such as the north american electric reliability corporation, and u.s. government departments, including the departments of defense, homeland security and energy, and the white house, have noted that cyber-attacks targeting utility systems are increasing in sophistication, magnitude, and frequency. the utility's operational networks also may face new cyber security risks due to modernizing and interconnecting the existing infrastructure with new technologies and control systems. any failure or decrease in the functionality of the utility's operational networks could cause harm to the public or employees, significantly disrupt operations, negatively impact the utility's ability to safely generate, transport, deliver and store energy and gas or otherwise operate in the most safe and efficient manner or at all, and damage the utility's assets or operations or those of third parties. the utility also relies on complex information technology systems that allow it to create, collect, use, disclose, store and otherwise process sensitive information, including the utility's financial information, customer energy usage and billing information, and personal information regarding customers, employees and their dependents, contractors, and other individuals. in addition, the utility often relies on third-party vendors to host, maintain, modify, and update its systems, and to provide other services to the utility or the utility's customers. in addition, the utility is increasingly being required to disclose large amounts of data (including customer energy usage and personal information regarding customers) to support changes to california's electricity market related to grid modernization and customer choice. these third-party vendors could cease to exist, fail to establish adequate processes to protect the utility's systems and information, or experience security incidents or inadequate security measures. any incidents or disruptions in the utility's information technology systems could impact the utility's ability to track or collect revenues and to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting. 42 the utility and its third-party vendors have been subject to, and will likely continue to be subject to, breaches and attempts to gain unauthorized access to the utility's information technology systems or confidential data (including information about customers and employees), or to disrupt the utility's operations. none of these breaches or attempts has individually or in the aggregate resulted in a security incident with a material effect on pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows. despite implementation of security and control measures, there can be no assurance that the utility will be able to prevent the unauthorized access to its operational networks, information technology systems or data, or the disruption of its operations. such events could subject the utility to significant expenses, claims by customers or third parties, government inquiries, penalties for violation of applicable privacy laws, investigations, and regulatory actions that could result in material fines and penalties, loss of customers and harm to pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's reputation, any of which could have a material effect on pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows. the utility maintains cyber liability insurance that covers certain damages caused by cyber incidents. however, there is no guarantee that adequate insurance will continue to be available at rates the utility believes are reasonable or that the costs of responding to and recovering from a cyber incident will be covered by insurance or recoverable in rates. the operation and decommissioning of the utility's nuclear generation facilities expose it to potentially significant liabilities and the utility may not be able to fully recover its costs if regulatory requirements change or the plant ceases operations before the licenses expire. the operation of the utility's nuclear generation facilities exposes it to potentially significant liabilities from environmental, health and financial risks, such as risks relating to the storage, handling and disposal of spent nuclear fuel, and the release of radioactive materials caused by a nuclear accident, seismic activity, natural disaster, or terrorist act. if the utility incurs losses that are either not covered by insurance or exceed the amount of insurance available, such losses could have a material effect on pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows. in addition, the utility may be required under federal law to pay up to $275 million of liabilities arising out of each nuclear incident occurring not only at the utility's diablo canyon facility but at any other nuclear power plant in the united states. on january 11, 2018, the cpuc approved the retirement of diablo canyon units by 2024 and 2025. however, the utility continues to face public concern about the safety of nuclear generation and nuclear fuel. some of these nuclear opposition groups regularly file petitions at the nrc and in other forums challenging the actions of the nrc and urging governmental entities to adopt laws or policies in opposition to nuclear power. although an action in opposition may ultimately fail, regulatory proceedings may take longer to conclude and be more costly to complete. it is also possible that public pressure could grow leading to adverse changes in legislation, regulations, orders, or their interpretation. as a result, operations at the utility's two nuclear generation units at diablo canyon could cease before their respective licenses expire in 2024 and 2025. in such an instance, the utility could be required to record a charge for the remaining amount of its unrecovered investment and such charge could have a material effect on pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows. in addition, in order to retain highly skilled personnel necessary to safely operate diablo canyon during the remaining years of operations, the utility will incur costs in connection with (i) an employee retention program to ensure adequate staffing levels at diablo canyon, and (ii) an employee retraining and development program, to facilitate redeployment of a portion of diablo canyon personnel to the decommissioning project and elsewhere in the utility. in its january 11, 2018 decision, the cpuc authorized rate recovery up to $211.3 million and in its november 29, 2018 decision, the cpuc authorized rate recovery up to $352.1 million as originally requested by the utility for an employee retention program, but there can be no assurance that the utility will be successful in retaining highly skilled personnel under such program. the utility has incurred, and may continue to incur, substantial costs to comply with nrc regulations and orders. (see regulatory environment in item 1. business above.) if the utility were unable to recover these costs, pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial results could be materially affected. the utility may determine that it cannot comply with the new regulations or orders in a feasible and economic manner and voluntarily cease operations; alternatively, the nrc may order the utility to cease operations until the utility can comply with new regulations, orders, or decisions. the utility may incur a material charge if it ceases operations at diablo canyon's two nuclear generation units before their respective licenses expire in 2024 and 2025. at december 31, 2018, the utility's unrecovered investment in diablo canyon was $1.7 billion. 43 the utility also has an obligation to decommission its electricity generation facilities, including its nuclear facilities, as well as gas transmission system assets, at the end of their useful lives. (see note 2: summary of significant accounting policies - "asset retirement obligations" of the notes to the consolidated financial statement in item 8.) the cpuc authorizes the utility to recover its estimated costs to decommission its nuclear facilities through nuclear decommissioning charges that are collected from customers and held in nuclear decommissioning trusts to be used for the eventual decommissioning of each nuclear unit. if the utility's actual decommissioning costs, including the amounts held in the nuclear decommissioning trusts, exceed estimated costs, pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows could be materially affected. for certain critical technologies, products and services, the utility relies on a limited number of suppliers and, in some cases, sole suppliers. in the event these suppliers are unable to perform, the utility could experience delays and disruptions in its operations while it transitions to alternative plans or suppliers. the utility relies on a limited number of sole source suppliers for certain of its technologies, products and services. although the utility has long-term agreements with such suppliers, if the suppliers are unable to deliver these technologies, products or services, the utility could experience delays and disruptions while it implements alternative plans and makes arrangements with acceptable substitute suppliers. as a result, the utility's business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially affected. as an example, the utility relies on westinghouse electric company llc (recently acquired by brookfield business partners l.p.) for its nuclear fuel assemblies, and silver spring networks, inc. and aclara technologies llc as suppliers of proprietary smartmeter devices and software, and of managed services, utilized in its advanced metering system that collects electric and natural gas usage data from customers. if these suppliers encounter performance difficulties or are unable to supply these devices or maintain and update their software, or provide other services to maintain these systems, the utility's metering, billing, and electric network operations could be impacted and disrupted. 44 risks related to environmental factors severe weather conditions, extended drought and shifting climate patterns could materially affect pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows. extreme weather, extended drought and shifting climate patterns have intensified the challenges associated with wildfire management in california. the utility's service territory encompasses some of the most densely forested areas in california and, as a consequence, is subject to higher risk from vegetation-related ignition events than other california ious. further, environmental extremes, such as drought conditions followed by periods of wet weather, can drive additional vegetation growth (which can then fuel fires) and influence both the likelihood and severity of extraordinary wildfire events. in california, over the past five years, inconsistent and extreme precipitation, coupled with more hot days, have increased the wildfire risk and made wildfire outbreaks increasingly difficult to manage. in particular, the risk posed by wildfires has increased in the utility's service area as a result of an extended period of drought, bark beetle infestations in the california forest and wildfire fuel increases due to record rainfall following the drought, and strong wind events, among other environmental factors. contributing factors other than environmental can include local land use policies and historical forestry management practices. the combined effects of extreme weather and climate change also impact this risk. for example, in 2017, there were nearly double the number of wildfires than the annual average, including five of the most devastating wildfires in california's history. on january 19, 2018, the cpuc approved a statewide fire-threat map that shows that approximately half of the utility's service territory is facing "elevated" or "extreme" fire danger. approximately 25,000 circuit miles of the utility's nearly 81,000 distribution overhead circuit miles and approximately 5,500 miles of the nearly 18,000 transmission overhead circuit miles are in such high-fire threat areas, significantly more in total than other california ious. severe weather events and other natural disasters, including wildfires and other fires, storms, tornadoes, floods, heat waves, drought, earthquakes, tsunamis, rising sea levels, pandemics, solar events, electromagnetic events, or other natural disasters such as wildfires, could result in severe business disruptions, prolonged power outages, property damage, injuries or loss of life, significant decreases in revenues and earnings, and/or significant additional costs to pg&amp;e corporation and the utility. any such event could have a material effect on pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows. any of such events also could lead to significant claims against the utility. further, these events could result in regulatory penalties and disallowances, particularly if the utility encounters difficulties in restoring power to its customers on a timely basis or if the related losses are found to be the result of the utility's practices and/or the failure of electric and other equipment of the utility. further, the utility has been studying the potential effects of climate change (increased temperatures, changing precipitation patterns, rising sea levels) on the utility's operations and is developing contingency plans to adapt to those events and conditions that the utility believes are most significant. scientists project that climate change will increase electricity demand due to more extreme, persistent and hot weather. as a result, the utility's hydroelectric generation could change and the utility would need to consider managing or acquiring additional generation. if the utility increases its reliance on conventional generation resources to replace hydroelectric generation and to meet increased customer demand, it may become more costly for the utility to comply with ghg emissions limits. in addition, flooding caused by rising sea levels could damage the utility's facilities, including gas, generation, and electric transmission and distribution assets. the utility could incur substantial costs to repair or replace facilities, restore service, or compensate customers and other third parties for damages or injuries. the utility anticipates that the increased costs would be recovered through rates, but as rate pressures increase, the likelihood of disallowance or non-recovery may increase. events or conditions caused by climate change could have a greater impact on the utility's operations than the utility's studies suggest and could result in lower revenues or increased expenses, or both. if the cpuc fails to adjust the utility's rates to reflect the impact of events or conditions caused by climate change, pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows could be materially affected. 45 the utility's operations are subject to extensive environmental laws and changes in or liabilities under these laws could adversely affect pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial results. the utility's operations are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental laws, regulations, and orders, relating to air quality, water quality and usage, remediation of hazardous wastes, and the protection and conservation of natural resources and wildlife. the utility incurs significant capital, operating, and other costs associated with compliance with these environmental statutes, rules, and regulations. the utility has been in the past, and may be in the future, required to pay for environmental remediation costs at sites where it is identified as a potentially responsible party under federal and state environmental laws. although the utility has recorded liabilities for known environmental obligations, these costs can be difficult to estimate due to uncertainties about the extent of contamination, remediation alternatives, the applicable remediation levels, and the financial ability of other potentially responsible parties. (for more information, see note 14 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8.) environmental remediation costs could increase in the future as a result of new legislation, the current trend toward more stringent standards, and stricter and more expansive application of existing environmental regulations. failure to comply with these laws and regulations, or failure to comply with the terms of licenses or permits issued by environmental or regulatory agencies, could expose the utility to claims by third parties or the imposition of civil or criminal fines or other sanctions. the cpuc has authorized the utility to recover its environmental remediation costs for certain sites through various ratemaking mechanisms. one of these mechanisms allows the utility rate recovery for 90% of its hazardous substance remediation costs for certain approved sites without a reasonableness review. the cpuc may discontinue or change these ratemaking mechanisms in the future or the utility may incur environmental costs that exceed amounts the cpuc has authorized the utility to recover in rates. some of the utility's environmental costs, such as the remediation costs associated with the hinkley natural gas compressor site, are not recoverable through rates or insurance. (see environmental regulation in item 1. and note 14 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8.) the utility's costs to remediate groundwater contamination near the hinkley natural gas compressor site and to abate the effects of the contamination have had, and may continue to have, a material effect on pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial results. their financial results also can be materially affected by changes in estimated costs and by the extent to which actual remediation costs differ from recorded liabilities. state climate policy requires reductions in greenhouse gases of 40% by 2030 and 80% by 2050. various proposals for addressing these reductions have the potential to reduce natural gas usage and increase natural gas costs. the future recovery of the increased costs associated with compliance is uncertain. the carb is the state's primary regulator for ghg emission reduction programs. natural gas providers have been subject to compliance with carb's cap-and-trade program since 2015, and natural gas end-use customers have an increasing exposure to carbon costs under the program through 2030 when the full cost will be reflected in customer bills. carb's scoping plan also proposes various methods of reducing ghg emissions from natural gas. these include more aggressive energy efficiency programs to reduce natural gas end use, increased renewable portfolio standards generation in the electric sector reducing noncore gas load, and replacement of natural gas appliances with electric appliances, leading to further reduced demand. these natural gas load reductions may be partially offset by carb's proposals to deploy natural gas to replace wood fuel in home heating and diesel in transportation applications. carb also proposes a displacement of some conventional natural gas with above-market renewable natural gas. the combination of reduced load and increased costs could result in higher natural gas customer bills and a potential mandate to deliver renewable natural gas could lead to cost recovery risk. other risk factors the utility may be required to incur substantial costs in order to obtain or renew licenses and permits needed to operate the utility's business and the utility may be subject to fines and penalties for failure to comply or obtain license renewal. the utility must comply with the terms of various governmental permits, authorizations, and licenses, including those issued by the ferc for the continued operation of the utility's hydroelectric generation facilities, and those issued by environmental and other federal, state and local governmental agencies. many of the utility's capital investment projects, and some maintenance activities, often require the utility to obtain land use, construction, environmental, or other governmental permits. these permits, authorizations, and licenses may be difficult to obtain on a timely basis, causing work delays. further, existing permits and licenses could be revoked or modified by the agencies that granted them if facts develop that differ significantly from the facts assumed when they were issued. in addition, the utility often seeks periodic renewal of a license or permit, such as a waste discharge permit or a ferc operating license for a hydroelectric generation facility. 46 if a license or permit is not renewed for a particular facility and the utility is required to cease operations at that facility, the utility could incur an impairment charge or other costs. before renewing a permit or license, the issuing agency may impose additional requirements that may increase the utility's compliance costs. in particular, in connection with a license renewal for one or more of the utility's hydroelectric generation facilities or assets, the ferc may impose new license conditions that could, among other things, require increased expenditures or result in reduced electricity output and/or capacity at the facility. in addition, local governments may attempt to assert jurisdiction over various utility operations by requiring permits or other approvals that the utility has not been previously required to obtain. the utility may incur penalties and sanctions for failure to comply with the terms and conditions of licenses and permits which could have a material effect on pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows. if the utility cannot obtain, renew, or comply with necessary governmental permits, authorizations, licenses, ordinances, or other requirements, or if the utility cannot recover the increase in associated compliance and other costs in a timely manner, pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows could be materially affected. poor investment performance or other factors could require pg&amp;e corporation and the utility to make significant unplanned contributions to its pension plan, other postretirement benefits plans, and nuclear decommissioning trusts. pg&amp;e corporation and the utility provide defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefits for eligible employees and retirees. the utility also maintains three trusts for the purposes of providing funds to decommission its nuclear facilities. the performance of the debt and equity markets affects the value of plan assets and trust assets. a decline in the market value may increase the funding requirements for these plans and trusts. the cost of providing pension and other postretirement benefits is also affected by other factors, including interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels, the rate of return on plan assets, employee demographics, discount rates used in determining future benefit obligations, rates of increase in health care costs, future government regulation, and prior contributions to the plans. similarly, funding requirements for the nuclear decommissioning trusts are affected by the rates of return on trust assets, changes in the laws or regulations regarding nuclear decommissioning or decommissioning funding requirements as well as changes in assumptions or forecasts related to decommissioning dates, technology and the cost of labor, materials and equipment. (see note 2: summary of significant accounting policies of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8.) if the utility is required to make significant unplanned contributions to fund the pension and postretirement plans or if actual nuclear decommissioning costs exceed the amount of nuclear decommissioning trust funds and the utility is unable to recover the contributions or additional costs in rates, pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows could be materially affected. the utility's success depends on the availability of the services of a qualified workforce and its ability to maintain satisfactory collective bargaining agreements which cover a substantial number of employees. pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's results may suffer if the utility is unable to attract and retain qualified personnel and senior management talent, or if prolonged labor disruptions occur. the utility's workforce is aging and many employees are or will become eligible to retire within the next few years. although the utility has undertaken efforts to recruit and train new field service personnel, the utility may be faced with a shortage of experienced and qualified personnel. the majority of the utility's employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with three unions. labor disruptions could occur depending on the outcome of negotiations to renew the terms of these agreements with the unions or if tentative new agreements are not ratified by their members. in addition, some of the remaining non-represented utility employees could join one of these unions in the future. pg&amp;e corporation and the utility also may face challenges in attracting and retaining senior management talent especially if they are unable to restore the reputational harm generated by the negative publicity stemming from the ongoing enforcement proceedings and the chapter 11 cases. any such occurrences could materially affect pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows. 47 the utility's business activities are concentrated in one region, as a result of which, its future performance may be affected by events and factors unique to california. the utility's business activities are concentrated in northern california. as a result, the utility's future performance may be affected by events and economic factors unique to california or by regional regulation or legislation, for example the doctrine of inverse condemnation. (see the doctrine of inverse condemnation, if applied by courts in litigation to which pg&amp;e corporation and the utility are subject, could significantly expand the potential liabilities from such litigation and materially affect pg&amp;e corporation's and the utility's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows above.)