risk factors 13 "risk factors." often, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words, such as "may," "will," "could," "should," "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," "continue," "plan," "intend," "project" and other similar terminology, or the negative of such terms. we disclaim any responsibility to update or revise any forward-looking statement provided in this annual report or in any of our other communications for any reason. item 1. business xilinx, inc. (xilinx, the company or we) designs and develops programmable devices and associated technologies, including: integrated circuits (ics) in the form of programmable logic devices (plds), including programmable system on chips (socs) and three dimensional ics, or 3d ics; software design tools to program the plds; targeted reference designs; printed circuit boards; and intellectual property (ip), which consists of xilinx and various third-party verification and ip cores. in addition to its programmable platforms, xilinx provides design services, customer training, field engineering and technical support. our plds include field programmable gate arrays (fpgas), complex programmable logic devices (cplds) that our customers program to perform desired logic functions, and programmable socs, which combine industry standard arm processor-based systems with programmable logic in a single device. we also design and develop 3d ics, which stack fpga logic die or a combination of fpga and 28 gigabits/second (28g) transceiver die in a single package to exceed the capacity and bandwidth of monolithic devices, but with manufacturing and time-to-volume advantages of smaller die. our products are designed to provide high integration and quick time-to-market for electronic equipment manufacturers in end markets such as wired and wireless communications, industrial, scientific and medical, aerospace and defense, audio, video and broadcast, consumer, automotive and data processing. we sell our products and services through independent domestic and foreign distributors and through direct sales to original equipment manufacturers (oems) and electronic manufacturing service providers (ems). sales are generated either by these independent distributors, independent sales representative or our direct sales organization. xilinx was founded and incorporated in california in february 1984. in april 1990, the company was reincorporated in delaware. our corporate facilities and executive offices are located at 2100 logic drive, san jose, california 95124, and our website address is www.xilinx.com. industry overview there are three principal types of ics used in most digital electronic systems: processors, which generally are utilized for control and computing tasks; memory devices, which are used for storing program instructions and data; and logic devices, which generally are used to manage the interchange and manipulation of digital signals within a system. xilinx designs and develops plds, a type of logic device. alternatives to plds may include application specific integrated circuits (asics) and application specific standard products (assps). plds, asics and assps may be utilized in many of the same types of electronic systems. however, differences in unit pricing, development cost, product performance, reliability, power consumption, capacity, features and functionality, ease of use and time-to-market determine which devices are best-suited for specific applications. 3 table of contents plds have key competitive advantages over asics and assps, including: faster time-to-market and increased design flexibility. both of these advantages are enabled by xilinx desktop software which allows users to implement and revise their designs quickly. in contrast, asics and assps require significant development time and offer limited, if any, flexibility to make design changes. plds are standard components. this means that the same device can be sold to many different users for a myriad of applications. in sharp contrast, asics and assps are customized for an individual user or a specific application. plds are generally disadvantaged in terms of relative device size when compared to chips that are designed to perform a fixed function in a single or small set of applications. asics and assps tend to be smaller than plds performing the same fixed function, resulting in a lower unit cost. however, there is a high fixed cost associated with asic and assp development that is not applicable to pld customers. this fixed cost of asic and assp development is expected to significantly increase on next generation technology nodes. from a total cost of development perspective, asics and assps have generally been more cost effective when used in high-volume production; and plds have generally been more cost effective when used in low- to mid-volume production. however, we expect plds to be able to address higher volume applications and gain market share from asic and assp suppliers as the fixed cost of asic and assp development increases on next generation technology nodes. an overview of typical pld end market applications for our products is shown in the following table: end markets sub-segments applications communications &amp; data center wireless 3g/4g base stations wireless backhaul wireline enterprise routers and switches metro optical networks data centers industrial, aerospace &amp; defense industrial, scientific and medical factory automation medical imaging test and measurement equipment aerospace and defense satellite surveillance radar and sonar systems secure communications broadcast, consumer &amp; consumer digital televisions automotive digital slr cameras set-top boxes automotive infotainment systems driver information systems driver assistance systems audio, video and broadcast cable head-end systems post production equipment broadcast cameras other storage and servers security and encryption computer peripherals office automation copiers printers 4 table of contents strategy and competition our strategy for expansion is the displacement of asics and assps in the development of next generation electronic systems. the costs and risks associated with application-specific devices can only be justified for high-volume or highly-specialized commodity products. programmable platforms, alternatively, are becoming critical for our customers to meet increasingly stringent product requirements - cost, power, performance and density - in a business environment characterized by increased complexity, shrinking market windows, rapidly changing market demands, capped engineering budgets, escalating asic and assp non-recurring engineering costs and increased economic and development risk. with every new generation of fpgas, our strategy is to increase the performance, density and system-level functionality and integration, while driving down cost and power consumption at each manufacturing process node. this enables us to provide simpler, smarter programmable platforms and design methodologies allowing our customers to focus on innovation and differentiation of their products. our plds compete in the logic ic industry, an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion. we expect increased competition from our primary pld competitors, altera corporation (altera), lattice semiconductor corporation (lattice) and microsemi corporation (microsemi) and from new companies that may enter the traditional programmable logic market segment. in addition, we expect continued competition from the asic market, which has been ongoing since the inception of fpgas, as well as competition from the assp market. other competitors include manufacturers of: high-density programmable logic products characterized by fpga-type architectures; high-volume and low-cost fpgas as programmable replacements for asics and assps; asics and assps with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; high-speed, low-density cplds; high-performance digital signal processing (dsp) devices; products with embedded processors; products with embedded multi-gigabit transceivers; and other new or emerging programmable logic products. we believe that important competitive factors in the logic ic industry include: product pricing; time-to-market; product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density; field upgradability; adaptability of products to specific applications; ease of use and functionality of software design tools; availability and functionality of predefined ip; inventory and supply chain management; access to leading-edge process technology and assembly capacity; and ability to provide timely customer service and support. silicon product overview a brief overview of the silicon product offerings is listed in the table below. these products comprise the majority of our revenues. additionally, some of our more mature product families have been excluded from the table, although they continue to generate revenues. we operate and track our results in one operating segment for financial reporting purposes. 5 table of contents product families plds date introduced virtex -7 june 2010 kintex -7 june 2010 artix -7 june 2010 zynq -7000 march 2011 virtex-6 february 2009 spartan -6 february 2009 virtex-5 may 2006 see information under the caption "results of operations - net revenues" in item 7. "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" for information about our revenues from our product families. 28-nanometer (nm) product families the 7 series devices that comprise our 28-nm product families are fabricated on a high-k metal gate, high performance, low power 28-nm process technology. these devices are based on a scalable and optimized architecture, which enables design, ip portability and re-use across all families as well as provides designers the ability to achieve the appropriate combination of i/o support, performance, feature quantities, packaging and power consumption to address a wide range of applications. the 7 series devices consist of the following three families: virtex-7 fpgas, including 3d ics, are optimized for applications requiring the highest capacity, performance, dsp and serial connectivity with transceivers operating up to 28g. target applications include 400g and 100g line cards, high-performance computing and test and measurement applications. kintex-7 fpgas represent xilinx's first mid-range fpga family. these devices maximize price-performance and performance per watt. target applications include wireless lte infrastructure, video display technology and medical imaging. artix-7 fpgas offer the lowest power and system cost at higher performance than alternative high volume fpgas. these devices are targeted to high volume applications such as handheld portable ultrasound devices, multi-function printers and software defined radio. the zynq-7000 family is the first family of xilinx programmable socs. this new class of product combines an industry-standard arm dual-core cortex -a9 mpcore processing system with xilinx 28-nm architecture. there are five devices in the zynq-7000 soc family that allow designers to target cost sensitive as well as high-performance applications from a single platform using industry-standard tools. these devices are designed to enable incremental market opportunities in applications such as industrial motor control, driver assistance and smart surveillance systems, and smart heterogeneous wireless networks. 40-nm and 45-nm product families the virtex-6 fpga family consists of 13 devices and is the sixth generation in the virtex series of fpgas. virtex-6 fpgas are fabricated on a high-performance, 40-nm process technology. there are three virtex-6 families, and each is optimized to deliver different feature mixes to address a variety of markets as follows: virtex-6 lxt fpgas - optimized for applications that require high-performance logic, dsp and serial connectivity with low-power 6.6g serial transceivers. virtex-6 sxt fpgas - optimized for applications that require ultra high-performance dsp and serial connectivity with low-power 6.6g serial transceivers. virtex-6 hxt fpgas - optimized for communications applications that require the highest-speed serial connectivity with up to 11.2g serial transceivers. 6 table of contents the latest generation in the spartan fpga series, the spartan-6 fpga family, is fabricated on a low-power 45-nm process technology. the spartan-6 family is the pld industry's first 45-nm high-volume fpga family, consisting of 11 devices in two product families: spartan-6 lx fpgas - optimized for applications that require the lowest cost. spartan-6 lxt fpgas - optimized for applications that require lx features plus 3.125g serial transceivers. 65-nm product families the virtex-5 fpga family consists of 26 devices in five product families: virtex-5 lx fpgas for logic-intensive designs, virtex-5 lxt fpgas for high-performance logic with serial connectivity, virtex-5 sxt fpgas for high-performance dsp with serial connectivity, virtex-5 fxt fpgas for embedded processing with serial connectivity and virtex-5 txt fpgas for high-bandwidth serial connectivity. other product families prior generation virtex families include virtex-4, virtex-ii pro, virtex-ii, virtex-e and the original virtex family. spartan family fpgas include 90-nm spartan-3 fpgas, the spartan-3e family and the spartan-3a family. prior generation spartan families include spartan-iie, spartan-ii, spartan xl and the original spartan family. cplds operate on the lowest end of the programmable logic density spectrum. cplds are single-chip, nonvolatile solutions characterized by instant-on and universal interconnect. cplds combine the advantages of ultra low power consumption with the benefits of high performance and low cost. prior generations of cplds include the coolrunner tm and xc9500 product families. easypath fpgas easypath fpgas offer customers a fast, simple method of cost-reducing fpga designs. easypath fpgas use the same production masks and fabrication process as standard fpgas and are tested to a specific customer application to improve yield and lower costs. as a result, easypath fpgas provide customers with significant cost reduction when compared to the standard fpga devices without the conversion risk, engineering effort, or the additional time required to move to an asic. the latest generation of easypath fpgas and easypath-7 fpgas provide lower total product cost of ownership for cost-reducing high performance fpgas. design platforms and services programmable platforms we offer three types of programmable platforms that support our customers' designs and reduce their development efforts: the base platform is the delivery vehicle for all of our new silicon offerings used to develop and run customer-specific software applications and hardware designs. released at launch, the base platform is comprised of: fpga silicon; vivado design suite design environment; integration support of optional third-party synthesis, simulation, and signal integrity tools; reference designs; development boards and ip. the domain-specific platform targets one of the three primary xilinx fpga user profiles: the embedded processing developer; the dsp developer; or the logic/connectivity developer. it accomplishes this by augmenting the base platform with a targeted set of integrated technologies, including: higher-level design methodologies and tools; domain-specific ip including embedded, mixed signal, video, dsp and connectivity; domain-specific development hardware and reference designs; and operating systems and software. the market-specific platform enables software or hardware developers to quickly build and run their specific application or solution. built for specific markets such as automotive, consumer, aerospace and defense, communications, audio, video and broadcast, industrial, or scientific and medical, the market-specific platform integrates both the base and domain-specific platforms with higher targeted applications elements such as ip, reference designs and boards optimized for a particular market. 7 table of contents design tools to accommodate the various design methodologies and design flows employed by the wide range of our customers' user profiles such as system designers, algorithm designers, software coders and logic designers, we provide the appropriate design environment tailored to each user profile for design creation, design implementation and design verification. during april 2012, xilinx introduced the next-generation vivado design suite designed to improve developer productivity resulting in faster design integration and implementation. the vivado suite hallmarks include an easy-to-use ip-centric design flow and significant improvement in run times. the standards-based vivado tools include high-level synthesis to provide a more direct flow in retargeting dsps and general purpose processor designs into our fpgas, ip integrator to rapidly stitch together cores at higher levels of abstraction, and a new analytical place-and-route engine which significantly improves run times. the vivado suite supports both xilinx 7 series fpgas and zynq-7000, our programmable socs. the previous generation tool suite, the integrated software environment (ise ) design suite, supports xilinx 7 series fpgas, programmable socs and all previous generation fpgas, enabling customers to transition to the vivado design suite when the timing is right for their design needs. both the vivado design suite and ise design suite operate with a wide range of third-party electronic design automation software point-tools offerings. intellectual property xilinx and various third parties offer hundreds of no charge and fee-bearing ip core licenses covering ethernet, memory controllers, interlaken and pcie interface, as well as an abundance of domain-specific ip in the areas of embedded, dsp and connectivity, and market-specific ip cores. in addition, our products and technology leverage industry standards such as arm amba axi-4 interconnect technology, ip-xact and ieee p1735 encryption to facilitate plug-and-play fpga design and take advantage of the large ecosystem of arm ip developers. development boards, kits and configuration products in addition to the broad selection of legacy development boards presently offered, we have introduced a new unified board strategy that enables the creation of a standardized and coordinated set of base boards available both from xilinx and our ecosystem vendors, all utilizing the industry-standard extensions that enable customization for market specific applications. adopting this standard for all of our base boards enables the creation of a scalable and extensible delivery mechanism for all xilinx programmable platforms. we also offer comprehensive development kits including hardware, design tools, ip and reference designs that are designed to streamline and accelerate the development of domain-specific and market-specific applications. finally, xilinx offers a range of configuration products including one-time programmable and in-system programmable storage devices to configure xilinx fpgas. these prom (programmable read-only memory) products support all of our fpga devices. third-party alliances xilinx and certain third parties have developed and continue to offer a robust ecosystem of ip, boards, tools, services and support through the xilinx alliance program. xilinx also works with these third parties to promote our programmable platforms through third-party tools, ip, software, boards and design services. engineering services xilinx engineering services provide customers with engineering resources to augment their design teams and to provide expert design-specific advice. xilinx tailors its engineering services to the needs of its customers, ranging from hands-on training to full design creation and implementation. research and development our research and development (r&amp;d) activities are primarily directed toward the design of new ics, the development of new software design automation tools for hardware and embedded software, the design of logic ip, the adoption of advanced semiconductor manufacturing processes for ongoing cost reductions, performance and signal integrity improvements and lowering pld power consumption. as a result of our r&amp;d efforts, we have introduced a number of new products during the past several years including the virtex-7, kintex-7, artix-7 and zynq-7000 families. we have made enhancements to our ip core offerings 8 table of contents and introduced vivado tools, our next generation software design suite. we extended our collaboration with our foundry suppliers in the development of 65-nm, 45-nm, 40-nm and 28-nm manufacturing technology, enabling us to be the first company in the pld industry to ship 45-nm high-volume as well as 28-nm fpga devices. additionally, our investment in r&amp;d has allowed us to ship the industry's first 28-nm pld with embedded arm technology as well as the industry's first 3d ic devices. our r&amp;d challenge is to continue to develop new products that create value-added solutions for customers. in fiscal 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , our r&amp;d expenses were $475.5 million , $435.3 million and $392.5 million , respectively. we believe technical leadership and innovation are essential to our future success and are committed to maintaining a significant level of r&amp;d investment. sales and distribution we sell our products to oems, emss and to electronic components distributors who resell these products to oems and emss. we use a dedicated global sales and marketing organization as well as independent sales representatives to generate sales. in general, we focus our direct demand creation efforts on a limited number of key accounts. distributors and independent sales representatives create demand within the balance of our customer base in defined territories. distributors also provide inventory, value-added services and logistics for a wide range of our oem customers. whether xilinx, the independent sales representative, or the distributor identifies the sales opportunity, a local distributor will process and fulfill the majority of all customer orders. in such situations, distributors are the sellers of the products and as such they bear all legal and financial risks generally related to the sale of commercial goods, including such risks as credit loss, inventory shrinkage, theft and foreign currency fluctuations, but excluding indemnity and warranty liability. in accordance with our distribution agreements and industry practice, we have granted our authorized distributors the contractual right to return certain amounts of unsold product on a periodic basis and also receive price adjustments for unsold product in the case of a change in list prices subsequent to the initial sale. revenue recognition on shipments to distributors worldwide is deferred until the products are sold to the distributors' end customers. avnet, inc. (avnet) distributes the substantial majority of our products worldwide. as of march 30, 2013 and march 31, 2012 , avnet accounted for 64% and 67% , respectively, of our total accounts receivable. resale of product through avnet accounted for 46% , 48% and 51% of our worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. we also use other regional distributors throughout the world. we believe distributors provide a cost-effective means of reaching a broad range of customers while providing efficient logistics services. since plds are standard products, they do not carry many of the inventory risks posed by asics, and they simplify the requirements for distributor technical support. from time to time, we may add or terminate distributors in specific geographies, or move customers to a direct fulfillment model as we deem appropriate given our strategies, the level of distributor business activity and distributor performance and financial condition. see "note 2. summary of significant accounting policies and concentrations of risk" to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. "financial statements and supplementary data," for information about concentrations of credit risk and "note 16. segment information" for information about our revenues from external customers and domestic and international operations. no end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues in fiscal 2013 , 2012 or 2011 . backlog as of march 30, 2013 , our backlog from oem customers and backlog from end customers reported by our distributors scheduled for delivery within the next three months was $253.0 million, compared to $261.0 million as of march 31, 2012 . orders from end customers to our distributors are subject to changes in delivery schedules or to cancellation without significant penalty. as a result, backlogs from both oem customers and end customers reported by our distributors as of any particular period may not be a reliable indicator of revenue for any future period. wafer fabrication as a fabless semiconductor company, we do not manufacture wafers used for our ic products or proms. rather, we purchase our wafers from independent foundries including united microelectronics corporation (umc), taiwan semiconductor manufacturing company limited (tsmc), and samsung electronics co., ltd. (samsung). currently, umc manufactures the substantial majority of our wafers and tsmc manufactures the wafers for our newest products. precise terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations with each wafer foundry. 9 table of contents our strategy is to focus our resources on market development and creating new ics and software design tools rather than on wafer fabrication. we continuously evaluate opportunities to enhance foundry relationships and/or obtain additional capacity from our main suppliers as well as other suppliers of wafers manufactured with leading-edge process technologies, and we adjust loadings at particular foundries to meet our business needs. sort, assembly and test wafers are sorted by the foundry or independent sort subcontractors. sorted die are assembled by subcontractors. during the assembly process, the wafers are separated into individual die, which are then assembled into various package types. following assembly, the packaged units are generally tested by xilinx personnel at our singapore facility or by independent test subcontractors. we purchase most of our assembly and some of our test services from siliconware precision industries ltd. in taiwan and amkor technology, inc. in korea and the philippines. quality certification xilinx has achieved and currently maintains quality management systems certification to tl9000/iso9001 for our facilities in san jose, california; longmont, colorado; singapore and hyderabad, india. in addition, xilinx achieved and currently maintains iso 14001 and ohsas 18001 environmental health and safety management system certifications in the san jose and singapore locations. patents and licenses while our various proprietary intellectual property rights are important to our success, we believe our business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. as of march 30, 2013 , we held over 3,000 issued united states (u.s.) patents, which vary in duration, and over 400 pending u.s. patent applications relating to our proprietary technology. we maintain an active program of filing for additional patents in the areas of, but not limited to, circuits, software, ic architecture, ip cores, system design, testing methodologies and other technologies relating to our products and business. we have licensed some parties to certain portions of our patent portfolio and obtained licenses to certain third-party patents as well. we have acquired various licenses from third parties to certain technologies that are implemented in ip cores or embedded in our plds, such as processors. those licenses support our continuing ability to make and sell these plds to our customers. we also have acquired various licenses to certain third-party proprietary software, open-source software and related technologies, such as compilers, for our design tools. continued use of such software and technology is important to the operation of the design tools upon which customers depend. we maintain the xilinx trade name and trademarks, including the following trademarks that are registered in the u.s. and other countries: xilinx, the xilinx logo, artix, ise, kintex, spartan, virtex, vivado and zynq-7000. maintaining these trademarks, and the goodwill associated with them, is important to our business. we have also obtained the rights to use certain trademarks owned by consortiums and other trademark owners that are related to our products and business. we intend to continue to protect our ip rights (including, for example, patents, copyrights and trademarks) vigorously. we believe that failure to enforce our intellectual property rights or failure to protect our trade secrets effectively could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we incurred, and in the future we may continue to incur, litigation expenses to defend against claims of infringement and to enforce our intellectual property rights against third parties. however, any such litigation may or may not be successful. corporate responsibility xilinx places a high level of importance on corporate responsibility. through senior-level sponsorship, regular environmental, health and safety assessments and company-wide performance targets, we strive to achieve a culture that emphasizes contribution to local and global communities through a number of key initiatives: company we strive to meet or exceed industry and regulatory standards for ethical business practices, product responsibility, and supplier management. all xilinx's directors, officers and employees are required to comply not only with the letter of the laws, rules and regulations that govern the conduct of our business, but also with the spirit of those laws. 10 table of contents environment we monitor regulatory and resource trends and are committed to setting focused targets for key resources and emissions. these targets address several parameters, including product design; chemical, energy, and water use; waste recycling; and emissions. as a company, we focus on reducing natural resource use, the solid and chemical waste of our operations and minimizing our overall environmental impact with regards to the communities around us and consistent with global climate change efforts. community we are committed to growing strategic relationships with a wide range of local organizations and programs that are designed to develop and strengthen communities located around the world. xilinx develops local community relationships at key sites through funding and involvement that encourages active participation, teamwork, and volunteerism. xilinx supports opportunities initiated by its employees and that involve participation and empowerment of its employees. we are committed to charitable giving programs that work toward systemic change and measurable results. workplace we provide a safe and healthy work environment where employee diversity is embraced and opportunities for training, growth, and advancement are strongly encouraged. the xilinx code of social responsibility outlines standards to ensure that working conditions at xilinx are safe and that workers are treated with respect, fairness and dignity. employees as of march 30, 2013 , we had 3,329 employees compared to 3,265 as of the end of the prior fiscal year. none of our employees are represented by a labor union. we have not experienced any work stoppages and believe we maintain good employee relations. executive officers of the registrant certain information regarding the executive officers of xilinx as of may 23, 2013 is set forth below: name age position moshe n. gavrielov 58 president and chief executive officer (ceo) steven l. glaser 51 senior vice president, corporate strategy and marketing scott r. hover-smoot 58 corporate vice president, general counsel and secretary jon a. olson 59 senior vice president, finance and chief financial officer (cfo) victor peng 53 senior vice president, programmable platforms group raja g. petrakian 49 senior vice president, worldwide operations krishna rangasayee 44 senior vice president, and general manager, communications business unit vincent l. tong 51 senior vice president, worldwide quality and new product introductions frank a. tornaghi 58 senior vice president, worldwide sales there are no family relationships among the executive officers of the company or the board of directors. moshe n. gavrielov joined the company in january 2008 as president and ceo and was appointed to the board of directors in february 2008. prior to joining the company, mr. gavrielov served at cadence design systems, inc., an electronic design automation company, as executive vice president and general manager of the verification division from april 2005 through november 2007. mr. gavrielov served as ceo of verisity ltd., an electronic design automation company, from march 1998 to april 2005 before its acquisition by cadence design systems, inc. prior to joining verisity, mr. gavrielov spent nearly 10 years at lsi corporation (formerly lsi logic corporation), a semiconductor manufacturer, in a variety of executive management positions, including executive vice president of the products group, senior vice president and general manager of international marketing and sales and senior vice president and general manager of lsi logic europe plc. additionally, mr. gavrielov held 11 table of contents various engineering and engineering management positions at digital equipment corporation and national semiconductor corporation. steven l. glaser joined the company in january 2011 as corporate vice president, strategic planning. in april 2012, mr. glaser was promoted to his current position of senior vice president, corporate strategy and marketing. prior to joining the company, mr. glaser held various senior positions in cadence design systems between april 2005 and january 2011, including corporate vice president of strategic development and corporate vice president of marketing for the verification division. from june 2003 to april 2005, he served as senior vice president of marketing at verisity ltd. prior to that, mr. glaser held various senior business and technical positions at companies in the semiconductor and electronic design automation industries. scott r. hover-smoot joined the company in october 2007 as vice president, general counsel and secretary. from november 2001 to october 2007, mr. hover-smoot served as regional counsel and director of legal operations with tsmc, an independent semiconductor foundry. he served as vice president and general counsel of california micro devices corporation, a provider of application-specific protection devices and display electronics devices from june 1994 to november 2001. prior to joining california micro devices corporation, mr. hover-smoot spent over 20 years working in law firms including berliner-cohen, flehr, hohbach, test, albritton &amp; herbert and lyon &amp; lyon. jon a. olson joined the company in june 2005 as vice president, finance and cfo. mr. olson assumed his current position of senior vice president, finance and cfo in august 2006. prior to joining the company, mr. olson spent more than 25 years at intel corporation, a semiconductor chip maker, serving in a variety of positions, including vice president, finance and enterprise services, and director of finance. victor peng joined the company in april 2008 as senior vice president, silicon engineering group and became senior vice president, programmable platforms development in november 2008. in april 2012, mr. peng assumed his current position of senior vice president, programmable platforms group. prior to joining the company, mr. peng served as corporate vice president, graphics products group at advanced micro devices (amd), a provider of processing solutions, from november 2005 to april 2008. prior to joining amd, mr. peng served in a variety of executive engineering positions at companies in the semiconductor and processor industries. raja g. petrakian joined the company in october 1995 and has served in a number of key roles within operations, including senior director of supply chain management and vice president of supply chain management. dr. petrakian assumed his current position of senior vice president, worldwide operations in march 2009. prior to joining xilinx, dr. petrakian spent more than three years at the ibm t.j. research center serving as a research staff member in the manufacturing research department. krishna rangasayee joined the company in july 1999 and has served in a number of key roles, including as senior director of vertical markets and partnerships from november 2005 through june 2008. he then served as the vice president of strategic planning from july 2008 through september 2010 and was promoted to the rank of corporate vice president for the same function. mr. rangasayee assumed the position of corporate vice president and general manager, communications business unit in october 2010. mr. rangasayee was promoted to his current position of senior vice president, and general manager, communications business unit in april 2012. prior to joining xilinx, mr. rangasayee held various positions at altera, a provider of programmable logic solutions, and cypress semiconductor, a semiconductor company. vincent l. tong joined the company in may 1990 and has served in a number of key roles, including vice president of product technology and as vice president, worldwide quality and reliability. in april 2008, he assumed his current position of senior vice president, worldwide quality and new product introductions and assumed the additional role of executive leader, asia pacific in october 2011. prior to joining the company, mr. tong served in a variety of engineering positions at monolithic memories, a producer of logic devices, and amd. mr. tong serves on the board of the global semiconductor alliance, a non-profit semiconductor organization. frank a. tornaghi joined the company in february 2008 as vice president, worldwide sales and assumed his current position of senior vice president, worldwide sales in april 2008. prior to joining the company, mr. tornaghi spent 22 years at lsi corporation. mr. tornaghi acted as an independent consultant from april 2006 until he joined the company. he served as executive vice president, worldwide sales at lsi corporation from july 2001 to april 2006 and as vice president, north america sales, from may 1993 to july 2001. from 1984 until may 1993, mr. tornaghi held various management positions in sales at lsi corporation. 12 table of contents additional information we make available, via a link through our investor relations website located at www.investor.xilinx.com, access to our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the u.s. securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (exchange act) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission (sec). all such filings on our investor relations website are available free of charge. printed copies of these documents are also available to stockholders without charge, upon written request directed to xilinx, inc., attn: investor relations, 2100 logic drive, san jose, ca 95124. further, a copy of this annual report on form 10-k is located at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room can be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings at http://www.sec.gov. the content on any website referred to in this filing is not incorporated by reference into this filing unless expressly noted otherwise. additional information required by this item 1 is incorporated by reference to the section captioned "net revenues - net revenues by geography" in item 7. "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and to "note 16. segment information" to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. "financial statements and supplementary data." this annual report includes trademarks and service marks of xilinx and other companies that are unregistered and registered in the u.s. and other countries. item 1a. risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks to the company. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company, or that the company's management currently deems immaterial, also may impair its business operations. if any of the risks described below were to occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. our success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products and failure to do so would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. our success depends in large part on our ability to develop and introduce new products that address customer requirements and compete effectively on the basis of price, density, functionality, power consumption and performance. the success of new product introductions is dependent upon several factors, including: timely completion of new product designs; ability to generate new design opportunities and design wins; availability of specialized field application engineering resources supporting demand creation and customer adoption of new products; ability to utilize advanced manufacturing process technologies on circuit geometries of 28-nm and smaller; achieving acceptable yields; ability to obtain adequate production capacity from our wafer foundries and assembly and test subcontractors; ability to obtain advanced packaging; availability of supporting software design tools; utilization of predefined ip logic; customer acceptance of advanced features in our new products; and market acceptance of our customers' products. our product development efforts may not be successful, our new products may not achieve industry acceptance and we may not achieve the necessary volume of production that would lead to further per unit cost reductions. revenues relating to our mature products are expected to decline in the future, which is normal for our product life cycles. as a result, we may be increasingly dependent on revenues derived from design wins for our newer products as well as anticipated cost reductions in the manufacture of our current products. we rely primarily on obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture of existing products, and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and other price/performance factors that enable us to increase revenues while maintaining consistent margins. to the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner, or to the extent that our products do not achieve market acceptance at prices with higher margins, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 13 table of contents we rely on independent foundries for the manufacture of all of our products and a manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could adversely affect our operations. most of our wafers are manufactured in taiwan by umc. in addition, we also have wafers manufactured in south korea by samsung and the wafers for our newest products are manufactured in taiwan by tsmc. terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations between xilinx and these wafer foundries, which usually result in short-term agreements that do not provide for long-term supply or allocation commitments. we are dependent on these foundries, especially umc, which supplies the substantial majority of our wafers. we rely on umc, tsmc and our other foundries to produce wafers with competitive performance attributes. therefore, the foundries, particularly tsmc who manufactures our newest products, must be able to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies and increased wafer sizes, produce wafers at acceptable yields and deliver them in a timely manner. furthermore, we cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our wafers will offer us competitive pricing terms or other commercial terms important to our business. we cannot guarantee that our foundries will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies or difficulties due to limitations of new and existing process technologies. furthermore, we cannot guarantee the foundries will be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products or that they will continue to manufacture a product for the full life of the product. in addition, weak economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of the foundries and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us. for example, in the first quarter of fiscal 2010, we experienced supply shortages due to the difficulties encountered by the foundries when they had to rapidly increase their production capacities from low utilization levels to high utilization levels because of an unexpected increase in demand. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 and first nine months of fiscal 2011, we also experienced supply shortages due to very strong demand for our products and a surge in demand for semiconductors in general, which led to tightening of foundry capacity across the industry. the insolvency of a foundry or any significant manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity would disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. we have established other sources of wafer supply for many of our products in an effort to secure a continued supply of wafers. however, establishing, maintaining and managing multiple foundry relationships require the investment of management resources as well as additional costs. if we do not manage these relationships effectively, it could adversely affect our results of operations. general economic conditions and the related deterioration in the global business environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. during the past three years, global consumer confidence eroded amidst concerns over declining asset values, inflation, volatility in energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, rising unemployment, and the stability and solvency of financial institutions, financial markets, businesses and sovereign nations, among other concerns. these concerns slowed global economic growth and resulted in recessions in numerous countries, including many of those in north america, europe and asia. recent events have shown that the financial condition of sovereign nations, particularly in europe, is of continuing concern as the sovereign debt crisis remains unresolved. recent events have also elevated concerns that macroeconomic conditions will worsen and economic recovery will be delayed. these weak economic conditions resulted in reduced customer demand and had a negative impact on our results of operations for the second and third quarter of fiscal 2012 and the third quarter of fiscal 2013. if weak economic conditions persist or worsen, a number of negative effects on our business could continue, including customers or potential customers reducing or delaying orders, the insolvency of key suppliers, potentially causing production delays, the inability of customers to obtain credit, and the insolvency of one or more customers. any of these effects could impact our ability to effectively manage inventory levels and collect receivables and ultimately decrease our net revenues and profitability. the semiconductor industry is characterized by cyclical market patterns and a significant industry downturn could adversely affect our operating results. the semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and our financial performance has been affected by downturns in the industry. down cycles are generally characterized by price erosion and weaker demand for our products. weaker demand for our products resulting from economic conditions in the end markets we serve and reduced capital spending by our customers can result, and in the past has resulted, in excess and obsolete inventories and corresponding inventory write-downs. we attempt to identify changes in market conditions as soon as possible; however, the dynamics of the market in which we operate make prediction of and timely reaction to such events difficult. due to these and other factors, our past results are not reliable predictors of our future results. the nature of our business makes our revenues difficult to predict which could have an adverse impact on our business. in addition to the challenging market conditions we may face, we have limited visibility into the demand for our products, particularly new products, because demand for our products depends upon our products being designed into our end customers' products and those products achieving market acceptance. due to the complexity of our customers' designs, the design to volume production process for our customers requires a substantial amount of time, frequently longer than a year. in addition, we are dependent upon "turns," orders received and turned for shipment in the same quarter. these factors make it difficult for us to 14 table of contents forecast future sales and project quarterly revenues. the difficulty in forecasting future sales impairs our ability to project our inventory requirements, which could result, and in the past has resulted, in inventory write-downs or failure to meet customer product demands in a timely manner. in addition, difficulty in forecasting revenues compromises our ability to provide forward-looking revenue and earnings guidance. if we are not able to successfully compete in our industry, our financial results and future prospects will be adversely affected. our plds compete in the logic ic industry, an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion. we expect increased competition from our primary pld competitors, altera, lattice and microsemi, and from new market entrants. in addition, competition from the asic market and from the assp market continues. we believe that important competitive factors in the logic ic industry include: product pricing; time-to-market; product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density; field upgradeability; adaptability of products to specific applications; ease of use and functionality of software design tools; availability and functionality of predefined ip logic; inventory and supply chain management; access to leading-edge process technology and assembly capacity; and ability to provide timely customer service and support. our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high-volume, low-cost and low-power applications as well as high-performance, high-density applications. however, we may not be successful in executing this strategy. in addition, we anticipate continued pressure from our customers to reduce prices, which may outpace our ability to lower the cost for established products. other competitors include manufacturers of: high-density programmable logic products characterized by fpga type architectures; high-volume and low-cost fpgas as programmable replacements for asics and assps; asics and assps with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; high-speed, low-density complex programmable logic devices; high-performance digital signal processing devices; products with embedded processors; products with embedded multi-gigabit transceivers; and other new or emerging programmable logic products. several companies have introduced products that compete with ours or have announced their intention to sell pld products. to the extent that our efforts to compete are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the benefits of programmable logic have attracted a number of competitors to this segment. we recognize that different applications require different programmable technologies, and we are developing architectures, processes and products to meet these varying customer needs. recognizing the increasing importance of standard software solutions, we have developed common software design tools that support the full range of our ic products. we believe that automation and ease of design are significant competitive factors in this segment. we could also face competition from our licensees. in the past we have granted limited rights to other companies with respect to certain aspects of our older technology, and we may do so in the future. granting such rights may enable these companies to manufacture and market products that may be competitive with some of our older products. increased costs of wafers and materials, or shortages in wafers and materials, could adversely impact our gross margins and lead to reduced revenues. if greater demand for wafers is not offset by an increase in foundry capacity, market demand for wafers or production and assembly materials increases, or if a supplier of our wafers ceases or suspends operations, our supply of wafers and other materials could become limited. such shortages raise the likelihood of potential wafer price increases, wafer shortages or shortages in materials at production and test facilities, resulting in potential inability to address customer product demands in a timely manner. for example, as a result of the march 2011 earthquake in japan, certain suppliers were forced to temporarily halt production, resulting in a tightening of supply for those materials. such shortages of wafers and materials as well as increases in wafer or materials 15 table of contents prices could adversely affect our gross margins and would adversely affect our ability to meet customer demands and lead to reduced revenue. we depend on distributors, primarily avnet, to generate a majority of our sales and complete order fulfillment. resale of product through avnet accounted for 46% of our worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2013 and as of march 30, 2013 , avnet accounted for 64% of our total net accounts receivable. any adverse change to our relationship with avnet or our remaining distributors could have a material impact on our business. furthermore, if a key distributor materially defaults on a contract or otherwise fails to perform, our business and financial results would suffer. in addition, we are subject to concentrations of credit risk in our trade accounts receivable, which includes accounts of our distributors. a significant reduction of effort by a distributor to sell our products or a material change in our relationship with one or more distributors may reduce our access to certain end customers and adversely affect our ability to sell our products. in addition, the financial health of our distributors and our continuing relationships with them are important to our success. unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health of some of these distributors, particularly our smaller distributors. this could result in the insolvency of certain distributors, the inability of distributors to obtain credit to finance the purchase of our products, or cause distributors to delay payment of their obligations to us and increase our credit risk exposure. our business could be harmed if the financial health of these distributors impairs their performance and we are unable to secure alternate distributors. we are dependent on independent subcontractors for most of our assembly and test services, and unavailability or disruption of these services could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. we are dependent on subcontractors to provide semiconductor assembly, substrate, test and shipment services. any prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, any disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, delays in stabilizing manufacturing processes and ramping up volume for new products, transitions to new service providers or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands. in addition, unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of these subcontractors and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us. these factors would result in reduced net revenues and could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. a number of factors, including our inventory strategy, can impact our gross margins. a number of factors, including yield, wafer pricing, product mix, market acceptance of our new products, competitive pricing dynamics, geographic and/or market segment pricing strategies can cause our gross margins to fluctuate. in addition, forecasting our gross margins is difficult because a significant portion of our business is based on turns within the same quarter. our current inventory levels are higher than historical norms due to our decision to build ahead of a previously planned closure of a particular foundry process line at one of our foundry partners, weaker than anticipated sales and a planned increase in safety stock across newer technologies in anticipation of future revenue growth. in the event demand does not materialize, we may be subject to incremental obsolescence costs. in addition, future product cost reductions could have an increased impact on our inventory valuation, which would then impact our operating results. reductions in the average selling prices of our products could have a negative impact on our gross margins. the average selling prices of our products generally decline as the products mature. we seek to offset the decrease in selling prices through yield improvement, manufacturing cost reductions and increased unit sales. we also continue to develop higher value products or product features that increase, or slow the decline of, the average selling price of our products. however, there is no guarantee that our ongoing efforts will be successful or that they will keep pace with the decline in selling prices of our products, which could ultimately lead to a decline in revenues and have a negative effect on our gross margins. because of our international business and operations, we are vulnerable to the economic conditions of the countries in which we operate and currency fluctuations could have a material adverse affect on our business and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. in addition to our u.s. operations, we also have significant international operations, including foreign sales offices to support our international customers and distributors, our regional headquarters in ireland and singapore and an r&amp;d site in india. our international operations have grown because we have relocated certain operations and administrative functions outside the u.s. sales and operations outside of the u.s. subject us to the risks associated with conducting business in foreign economic and regulatory environments. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in countries in which we do significant business or by changes in foreign currency exchange rates affecting those countries. we derive over one-half of our revenues from international sales, primarily in the asia pacific region, europe and japan. past economic weaknesses in these markets adversely affected revenues. sales to all direct oems and distributors are denominated in u.s. dollars. while the recent movements of the euro and yen exchange rates against the u.s. dollar had no material impact 16 table of contents to our business, increased volatility could impact our european and japanese customers. currency instability and volatility and disruptions in the credit and capital markets may increase credit risks for some of our customers and may impair our customers' ability to repay existing obligations. increased currency volatility could also positively or negatively impact our foreign-currency-denominated costs, assets and liabilities. in addition, any devaluation of the u.s. dollar relative to other foreign currencies may increase the operating expenses of our foreign subsidiaries adversely affecting our results of operations. furthermore, because we are increasingly dependent on the global economy, instability in worldwide economic environments occasioned, for example, by political instability, terrorist activity or u.s. or other military actions could adversely impact economic activity and lead to a contraction of capital spending by our customers. any or all of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. we are subject to the risks associated with conducting business operations outside of the u.s. which could adversely affect our business. in addition to international sales and support operations and development activities, we purchase our wafers from foreign foundries and have our commercial products assembled, packaged and tested by subcontractors located outside the u.s. all of these activities are subject to the uncertainties associated with international business operations, including tax laws and regulations, trade barriers, economic sanctions, import and export regulations, duties and tariffs and other trade restrictions, changes in trade policies, anti-corruption laws, foreign governmental regulations, potential vulnerability of and reduced protection for ip, longer receivable collection periods and disruptions or delays in production or shipments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. additional factors that could adversely affect us due to our international operations include rising oil prices and increased costs of natural resources. moreover, our financial condition and results of operations could be affected in the event of political conflicts or economic crises in countries where our main wafer providers, end customers and contract manufacturers who provide assembly and test services worldwide, are located. adverse change to the circumstances or conditions of our international business operations could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and changes in credit rating and in the market values of our portfolio investments which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. our cash, short-term and long-term investments represent significant assets that may be subject to fluctuating or even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements, changes in credit rating and financial market conditions. since september 2007, the global credit markets have experienced adverse conditions that have negatively impacted the values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities. during this time, the global credit and capital markets have experienced significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system, uncertainty related to global economic conditions and concerns regarding sovereign financial stability. therefore, there is a risk that we may incur other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments should credit market conditions deteriorate or the underlying assets fail to perform as anticipated. our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair values of our debt securities is judged to be other than temporary. furthermore, we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or financial market conditions. our failure to protect and defend our intellectual property could impair our ability to compete effectively. we rely upon patent, copyright, trade secret, mask work and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property. we cannot provide assurance that such intellectual property rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, violated, circumvented or challenged. from time to time, third parties, including our competitors, have asserted against us patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to us. third parties may attempt to misappropriate our ip through electronic or other means or assert infringement claims against our indemnitees or us in the future. such assertions by third parties may result in costly litigation, indemnity claims or other legal actions, and we may not prevail in such matters or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. this could result in the loss of our ability to import and sell our products or require us to pay costly royalties to third parties in connection with sales of our products. any infringement claim, indemnification claim, or impairment or loss of use of our intellectual property could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our ability to design and introduce new products in a timely manner is dependent upon third-party intellectual property. in the design and development of new products and product enhancements, we rely on third-party intellectual property such as software development tools and hardware testing tools. furthermore, certain product features may rely on intellectual property acquired from third parties. the design requirements necessary to meet future consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from semiconductor products may exceed the capabilities of the third-party intellectual property or development 17 table of contents tools that are available to us. if the third-party intellectual property that we use becomes unavailable or fails to produce designs that meet consumer demands, our business could be adversely affected. we rely on information technology systems, and failure of these systems to function properly or unauthorized access to our systems could result in business disruption. we rely in part on various information technology (it) systems to manage our operations, including financial reporting, and we regularly evaluate these systems and make changes to improve them as necessary. consequently, we periodically implement new, or upgrade or enhance existing, operational and it systems, procedures and controls. for example, in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 we upgraded the it systems we use to manage our operations and record and report financial information, and in the past we simplified our supply chain and were required to make certain changes to our it systems. any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. these systems are also subject to power and telecommunication outages or other general system failures. failure of our it systems or difficulties in managing them could result in business disruption. we also may be subject to unauthorized access to our it systems through a security breach or attack. in the past there have been attempts by third parties to penetrate and or infect our network and systems with malicious software, in an effort to gain access to our network and systems. we seek to detect and investigate any security incidents and prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. our business could be significantly harmed and we could be subject to third party claims in the event of such a security breach. earthquakes and other natural disasters could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. the independent foundries upon which we rely to manufacture our products, as well as our california and singapore facilities, are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. umc's and tsmc's foundries in taiwan and seiko's foundries in japan and our assembly and test partners in japan and other regions as well as many of our operations in california are centered in areas that have been seismically active in the recent past and some areas have been affected by other natural disasters such as typhoons. any catastrophic event in these locations will disrupt our operations, including our manufacturing activities and our insurance may not cover losses resulting from such disruptions of our operations. this type of disruption could result in our inability to manufacture or ship products, thereby materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. for example, as a result of the march 2011 earthquake in japan, production at the seiko foundry at sakata was halted temporarily, impacting production of some of our older devices. in addition, suppliers of wafers and substrates were forced to halt production temporarily. disruption of operations at these foundries for any reason, including other natural disasters such as typhoons, tsunamis, volcano eruptions, fires or floods, as well as disruptions in access to adequate supplies of electricity, natural gas or water could cause delays in shipments of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. furthermore, natural disasters can also indirectly impact us. for example, our customers' supply of other complimentary products may be disrupted by a natural disaster and may cause them to delay orders of our products. certain types of these natural disasters might be exacerbated by the effects of climate change, which would increase the overall adverse effect of all the above. in addition, the access to water sources for our supply chain could also be adversely affected with climate change, which would potentially negatively affect our manufacturing strategy. if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls, our stock price could be adversely affected. we are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (the act). our controls necessary for continued compliance with the act may not operate effectively at all times and may result in a material weakness disclosure. the identification of material weaknesses in internal control, if any, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements and could cause investors to lose confidence and our stock price to drop. we compete with others to attract and retain key personnel, and any loss of, or inability to attract, such personnel would harm us. we depend on the efforts and abilities of certain key members of management and other technical personnel. our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to retain such personnel and attract and retain other highly qualified personnel, particularly product engineers. competition for such personnel is intense and we may not be successful in hiring or retaining new or existing qualified personnel. from time to time we have effected restructurings which eliminate a number of positions. even if such personnel are not directly affected by the restructuring effort, such terminations can have a negative impact on morale and our ability to attract and hire new qualified personnel in the future. if we lose existing qualified personnel or are unable to hire new qualified personnel, as needed, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. unfavorable results of legal proceedings could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. from time to time we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business. certain claims are not yet resolved, including those that are discussed under item 3. "legal proceedings," included in part i of this form 10-k, and additional claims may arise in the future. results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. 18 table of contents regardless of its merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention and we may enter into material settlements to avoid these risks. should we fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against us in the same reporting period, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that would materially and adversely affect a portion of our business and might materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. our products could have defects which could result in reduced revenues and claims against us. we develop complex and evolving products that include both hardware and software. despite our testing efforts and those of our subcontractors, defects may be found in existing or new products. these defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair or replacement costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with customers. subject to certain terms and conditions, we have agreed to compensate certain customers for limited specified costs they actually incur in the event our hardware products experience epidemic failure. as a result, epidemic failure and other performance problems could result in claims against us, the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and would likely harm our business. our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. in addition, we could be subject to product liability claims. a product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly to defend. product liability risks are particularly significant with respect to aerospace, automotive and medical applications because of the risk of serious harm to users of these products. any product liability claim, whether or not determined in our favor, could result in significant expense, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and harm our business. in preparing our financial statements, we make good faith estimates and judgments that may change or turn out to be erroneous. in preparing our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s., we must make estimates and judgments in applying our most critical accounting policies. those estimates and judgments have a significant impact on the results we report in our consolidated financial statements. the most difficult estimates and subjective judgments that we make concern valuation of marketable and non-marketable securities, revenue recognition, inventories, long-lived assets including acquisition-related intangibles, goodwill, taxes and stock-based compensation. we base our estimates on historical experience, input from outside experts and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. we also have other key accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult, but which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial reporting. actual results may differ materially from these estimates. if these estimates or their related assumptions change, our operating results for the periods in which we revise our estimates or assumptions could be adversely and perhaps materially affected. the conditional conversion features of the outstanding debentures, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. our outstanding debentures have conditional conversion features. in the event the conditional conversion features of the debentures are triggered, holders of such debentures will be entitled to convert the debentures at any time during specified periods at their option. if one or more holders elect to convert their debentures, we would be required to settle any converted principal through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. even if holders do not elect to convert their debentures, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the debentures as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. in addition, we could be required to increase the number of shares used in our per share calculations to reflect the potentially dilutive impact of the conversion. our failure to comply with the requirements of the international traffic and arms regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. certain xilinx space-grade fpgas and related technologies are subject to the international traffic in arms regulations (itar), which are administered by the u.s. department of state. the itar governs the export and reexport of these fpgas, the transfer of related technical data and the provision of defense services, as well as offshore production, test and assembly. we are required to maintain an internal compliance program and security infrastructure to meet itar requirements. an inability to obtain the required export licenses, or to predict when they will be granted, increases the difficulties of forecasting shipments. in addition, security or compliance program failures that could result in penalties or a loss of export privileges, as well as stringent itar licensing restrictions that may make our products less attractive to overseas customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. 19 table of contents our inability to effectively control the sale of our products on the gray market could have a material adverse effect on us. we market and sell our products directly to oems and through authorized third-party distributors which helps to ensure that products delivered to our customers are authentic and properly handled. from time to time, customers may purchase products bearing our name from the unauthorized "gray market." these parts may be counterfeit, salvaged or re-marked parts, or parts that have been altered, mishandled, or damaged. gray market products result in shadow inventory that is not visible to us, thus making it difficult to forecast supply or demand. also, when gray market products enter the market, we and our authorized distributors may compete with brokers of these discounted products, which can adversely affect demand for our products and negatively impact our margins. in addition, our reputation with customers may be negatively impacted when gray market products bearing our name fail or are found to be substandard. the conflict minerals provisions of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act could result in additional costs and liabilities. in accordance with the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, the sec established new disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use "conflict" minerals mined from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries in their products, whether or not these products are manufactured by third parties. these new requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of our semiconductor products. there will also be costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, including for due diligence in regard to the sources of any conflict minerals used in our products, in addition to the cost of remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. we may face reputational challenges if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all minerals used in our products through the due diligence process we implement. moreover, we may encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products are certified as conflict free. considerable amounts of our common shares are available for issuance under our equity incentive plans and convertible debentures, and significant issuances in the future may adversely impact the market price of our common shares. as of march 30, 2013 we had 2.00 billion authorized common shares, of which 263.6 million shares were outstanding. in addition, 43.6 million common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to our equity incentive plans and employee stock purchase plan, 43.4 million common shares were reserved for issuance upon conversion or repurchase of the convertible debentures and 20.0 million common shares were reserved for issuance upon exercise of warrants. the availability of substantial amounts of our common shares resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity incentive plans or the conversion or repurchase of convertible debentures using common shares, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. we have indebtedness that could adversely affect our financial position and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. the aggregate amount of our consolidated indebtedness as of march 30, 2013 was $1.29 billion (principal amount). we also may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our indebtedness may: make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including making scheduled principal and interest payments on the debentures and our other indebtedness; limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; require us to use a portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments; limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions; and require us to repatriate off-shore cash to the u.s. at unfavorable tax rates. our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. 20 table of contents the call options and warrant transactions related to our 2.625% senior convertible debentures due june 15, 2017 (2.625% debentures) may affect the value of the debentures and our common stock. to hedge against potential dilution upon conversion of the 2.625% debentures, we purchased call options on our common stock from the hedge counterparties. we also sold warrants to the hedge counterparties, which could separately have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants of $42.46 per share. as the hedge counterparties and their respective affiliates modify hedge positions, they may enter or unwind various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchase or sell our common stock in secondary market transactions. this activity also could affect the market price of our common stock and/or debentures, which could affect the ability of the holders of the debentures to convert and the number of shares and value of the consideration that will be received by the holders of the debentures upon conversion. acquisitions and strategic investments present risks, and we may not realize the goals that were contemplated at the time of a transaction. we recently acquired technology companies whose products complement our products, and in the past we have made a number of strategic investments in other technology companies. we may make similar acquisitions and strategic investments in the future. acquisitions and strategic investments present risks, including: our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management's attention may be diverted by investment, acquisition, transition or integration activities; an acquisition or strategic investment may not further our business strategy as we expected, and we may not integrate an acquired company or technology as successfully as we expected; our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by claims or liabilities that we assume from an acquired company or technology or that are otherwise related to an acquisition; we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines; we may have higher than anticipated costs in continuing support and development of acquired products, and in general and administrative functions that support such products; our strategic investments may not perform as expected; and we may experience unexpected changes in how we are required to account for our acquisitions and strategic investments pursuant to u.s. gaap. the occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions or strategic investments. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our investment portfolio, which consists of fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $3.18 billion as of march 30, 2013 . our primary aim with our investment portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal and meeting liquidity needs. our investment portfolio includes municipal bonds, mortgage-backed securities, bank certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate bonds, student loan auction rate securities, u.s. and foreign government and agency securities and a debt mutual fund. in accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer based upon the issuer's credit rating. these securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. a hypothetical 100 basis-point (one percentage point) increase or decrease in interest rates compared to rates at march 30, 2013 and march 31, 2012 would have affected the fair value of our investment portfolio by approximately $51.0 million and $26.0 million, respectively. credit market risk since september 2007, the global credit markets have experienced adverse conditions that have negatively impacted the values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities. during this time the global credit and capital markets experienced significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system, uncertainty related to global economic conditions and concerns regarding sovereign financial stability. therefore, there is a risk that we may incur other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments should credit market conditions deteriorate. see "note 4. financial instruments" to our consolidated financial statements, included inrisk factors 13 "risk factors." often, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words, such as "anticipates," "believes," "continue," "could," "estimates," "expects," "intends," "may," "plans," "projects," "should," "will," "would" and other similar terminology, or the negative of such terms. we disclaim any responsibility to update or revise any forward-looking statement provided in this annual report or in any of our other communications for any reason. item 1. business xilinx, inc. (xilinx, the company or we) designs and develops programmable devices and associated technologies, including: integrated circuits (ics) in the form of programmable logic devices (plds), including programmable system on chips (socs) and three-dimensional ics, or 3d ics; software design tools to program the plds; targeted reference designs; printed circuit boards; and intellectual property (ip), which consists of xilinx and various third-party verification and ip cores. in addition to its programmable platforms, xilinx provides design services, customer training, field engineering and technical support. our plds include field programmable gate arrays (fpgas), complex programmable logic devices (cplds) that our customers program to perform desired logic functions, and programmable socs, which combine industry standard arm processor-based systems with programmable logic in a single device. we also design and develop 3d ics, which combine multiple fpga logic die or a combination of fpga and transceiver die in a single package to exceed the capacity and bandwidth of monolithic devices. our product portfolio is designed to provide high integration and quick time-to-market for electronic equipment manufacturers in end markets such as wired and wireless communications, industrial, scientific and medical, aerospace and defense, audio, video and broadcast, consumer, automotive and data processing. we sell our products and services through independent domestic and foreign distributors and through direct sales to original equipment manufacturers (oems) and electronic manufacturing service providers (ems). sales are generated by these independent distributors, independent sales representative or our direct sales organization. xilinx was founded and incorporated in california in february 1984. in april 1990, the company was reincorporated in delaware. our corporate facilities and executive offices are located at 2100 logic drive, san jose, california 95124, and our website address is www.xilinx.com. industry overview there are three principal types of ics used in most digital electronic systems: processors, which generally are utilized for control and computing tasks; memory devices, which are used for storing program instructions and data; and logic devices, which generally are used to manage the interchange and manipulation of digital signals within a system. xilinx designs and develops plds, a type of logic device. alternatives to plds may include application specific integrated circuits (asics) and application specific standard products (assps). plds, asics and assps may be utilized in many of the same types of electronic systems. however, differences in unit pricing, development cost, product performance, reliability, power consumption, capacity, features and functionality, ease of use and time-to-market determine which devices are best-suited for specific applications. 3 table of contents plds have key competitive advantages over asics and assps, including: faster time-to-market and increased design flexibility. both of these advantages are enabled by xilinx desktop software which allows users to implement and revise their designs quickly. in contrast, asics and assps require significant development time and offer limited, if any, flexibility to make design changes. plds are standard components. this means that the same device can be sold to many different users for a myriad of applications. in sharp contrast, asics and assps are customized for an individual user or a specific application. plds are generally disadvantaged in terms of relative device size when compared to chips that are designed to perform a fixed function in a single or small set of applications. asics and assps tend to be smaller than plds performing the same fixed function, resulting in a lower unit cost. however, there is a high fixed cost associated with asic and assp development that is not applicable to pld customers. this fixed cost of asic and assp development is expected to significantly increase on next generation technology nodes. from a total cost of development perspective, asics and assps have generally been more cost effective when used in high-volume production, and plds have generally been more cost effective when used in low- to mid-volume production. however, we expect plds to be able to address higher volume applications and gain market share from asic and assp suppliers as the fixed cost of asic and assp development increases on next generation technology nodes. an overview of typical pld end market applications for our products is shown in the following table: end markets sub-segments applications communications &amp; data center wireless 3g/4g base stations wireless backhaul wireline enterprise routers and switches metro optical networks data centers industrial, aerospace &amp; defense industrial, scientific and medical factory automation medical imaging test and measurement semiconductor test and measurement equipment asic emulation and prototyping aerospace and defense secure communications avionics electronic warfare and surveillance broadcast, consumer &amp; consumer digital televisions automotive multifunction printers set-top boxes automotive infotainment systems driver information systems driver assistance systems audio, video and broadcast cable head-end systems post production equipment broadcast cameras other miscellaneous high performance computing computer peripherals 4 table of contents strategy and competition our strategy for expansion is the displacement of asics and assps in the development of next generation electronic systems. the costs and risks associated with application-specific devices can only be justified for high-volume or highly-specialized commodity products. programmable platforms, alternatively, are becoming critical for our customers to meet increasingly stringent product requirements - cost, power, performance and density - in a business environment characterized by increased complexity, shrinking market windows, rapidly changing market demands, capped engineering budgets, escalating asic and assp non-recurring engineering costs and increased economic and development risk. with every new generation of fpgas, our strategy is to increase the performance, density and system-level functionality and integration, while driving down cost and power consumption at each manufacturing process node. this enables us to provide simpler, smarter programmable platforms and design methodologies allowing our customers to focus on innovation and differentiation of their products. our plds compete in the logic ic industry, an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion. we expect increased competition from our primary pld competitors such as altera corporation (altera), lattice semiconductor corporation (lattice) and microsemi corporation (microsemi), and from assp vendors such as broadcom corporation (broadcom), marvell technology group, ltd. (marvell) and texas instruments incorporated (texas instruments), as well as from new companies that may enter the traditional programmable logic market segment. in addition, we expect continued competition from the asic market, which has been ongoing since the inception of fpgas. other competitors include manufacturers of: high-density programmable logic products characterized by fpga-type architectures; high-volume and low-cost fpgas as programmable replacements for asics and assps; asics and assps with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; high-speed, low-density cplds; high-performance digital signal processing (dsp) devices; products with embedded processors; products with embedded multi-gigabit transceivers; and other new or emerging programmable logic products. we believe that important competitive factors in the logic ic industry include: product pricing; time-to-market; product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density; field upgradability; adaptability of products to specific applications; ease of use and functionality of software design tools; availability and functionality of predefined ip; inventory and supply chain management; access to leading-edge process technology and assembly capacity; ability to provide timely customer service and support; and access to advanced packaging technology. silicon product overview a brief overview of the silicon product offerings is listed in the table below. these products comprise the majority of our revenues. additionally, some of our more mature product families have been excluded from the table, although they continue to generate revenues. we operate and track our results in one operating segment for financial reporting purposes. 5 table of contents product families plds date introduced kintex ultrascale tm november 2013 virtex -7 june 2010 kintex-7 june 2010 artix -7 june 2010 zynq -7000 march 2011 virtex-6 february 2009 spartan -6 february 2009 virtex-5 may 2006 see information under the caption "results of operations - net revenues" in item 7. "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" for information about our revenues from our product families. see also "note 16. segment information" to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 "financial information and supplementary data" for information regarding segments. ultrascale product families these devices deliver an asic-class advantage, based on the ultrascale architecture and utilizing taiwan semiconductor manufacturing company limited's (tsmc) 20soc gate density process. these devices deliver next generation routing, asic-like clocking, and enhancements to logic and fabric to eliminate interconnect bottlenecks while supporting consistent device utilization of more than 90% without performance degradation. kintex ultrascale fpgas represent the company's second generation mid-range fpga family. these devices offer high price-performance at the lowest power. kintex ultrascale devices are designed to meet the requirements for the growing number of key applications including next generation wired and wireless communications and super high vision displays and equipment. virtex ultrascale devices provide advanced levels of performance, system integration and bandwidth on a single chip. the largest family member delivers 4.4m logic cells, more than doubling xilinx's industry's highest capacity device and delivering 50m equivalent asic gates. virtex ultrascale devices are expected to be used in the industry's most challenging applications including: 400g communication applications, high performance computing, intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance systems and asic emulation and prototyping. 28 nanometer (nm) product families the 7 series devices that comprise our 28nm product families are fabricated on a high-k metal gate, high performance and low power 28nm process technology. these devices are based on a scalable and optimized architecture, which enables design, ip portability and re-use across all families as well as provides designers the ability to achieve the appropriate combination of i/o support, performance, feature quantities, packaging and power consumption to address a wide range of applications. the 7 series devices consist of the following three families: virtex-7 fpgas, including 3d ics, are optimized for applications requiring the highest capacity, performance, dsp and serial connectivity with transceivers operating up to 28g. target applications include 400g and 100g line cards, high-performance computing and test and measurement applications. kintex-7 fpgas represent xilinx's first mid-range fpga family. these devices maximize price-performance and performance per watt. target applications include wireless lte infrastructure, video display technology and medical imaging. 6 table of contents artix-7 fpgas offer the lowest power and system cost at higher performance than alternative high volume fpgas. these devices are targeted to high volume applications such as handheld portable ultrasound devices, multi-function printers and software defined radios. the zynq-7000 family is the first family of xilinx programmable socs. this new class of product combines an industry-standard arm dual-core cortex -a9 mpcore processing system with xilinx 28nm architecture. there are five devices in the zynq-7000 soc family that allow designers to target cost sensitive as well as high-performance applications from a single platform using industry-standard tools. these devices are designed to enable incremental market opportunities in applications such as industrial motor control, driver assistance and smart surveillance systems, and smart heterogeneous wireless networks. 40nm and 45nm product families the virtex-6 fpga family consists of 13 devices and is the sixth generation in the virtex series of fpgas. virtex-6 fpgas are fabricated on a high-performance, 40nm process technology. there are three virtex-6 families, and each is optimized to deliver different feature mixes to address a variety of markets as follows: virtex-6 lxt fpgas - optimized for applications that require high-performance logic, dsp and serial connectivity with low-power 6.6g serial transceivers. virtex-6 sxt fpgas - optimized for applications that require ultra-high-performance dsp and serial connectivity with low-power 6.6g serial transceivers. virtex-6 hxt fpgas - optimized for communications applications that require the highest-speed serial connectivity with up to 11.2g serial transceivers. the latest generation in the spartan fpga series, the spartan-6 fpga family, is fabricated on a low-power 45nm process technology. the spartan-6 family is the pld industry's first 45nm high-volume fpga family, consisting of 11 devices in two product families: spartan-6 lx fpgas - optimized for applications that require the lowest cost. spartan-6 lxt fpgas - optimized for applications that require lx features plus 3.125g serial transceivers. 65nm product families the virtex-5 fpga family consists of 26 devices in five product families: virtex-5 lx fpgas for logic-intensive designs, virtex-5 lxt fpgas for high-performance logic with serial connectivity, virtex-5 sxt fpgas for high-performance dsp with serial connectivity, virtex-5 fxt fpgas for embedded processing with serial connectivity and virtex-5 txt fpgas for high-bandwidth serial connectivity. other product families prior generation virtex families include virtex-4, virtex-ii pro, virtex-ii, virtex-e and the original virtex family. spartan family fpgas include 90nm spartan-3 fpgas, the spartan-3e family and the spartan-3a family. prior generation spartan families include spartan-iie, spartan-ii, spartan xl and the original spartan family. cplds operate on the lowest end of the programmable logic density spectrum. cplds are single-chip, nonvolatile solutions characterized by instant-on and universal interconnect. cplds combine the advantages of ultra-low power consumption with the benefits of high performance and low cost. prior generations of cplds include the coolrunner tm and xc9500 product families. easypath fpgas easypath fpgas offer customers a fast, simple method of cost-reducing fpga designs. easypath fpgas use the same production masks and fabrication process as standard fpgas and are tested to a specific customer application to improve yield and lower costs. as a result, easypath fpgas provide customers with significant cost reduction when compared to the standard fpga devices without the conversion risk, engineering effort, or the additional time required to move to an asic. the latest generation of easypath fpgas and easypath-7 fpgas provide lower total product cost of ownership for cost-reducing high performance fpgas. 7 table of contents design platforms and services programmable platforms we offer three types of programmable platforms that support our customers' designs and reduce their development efforts: the base platform is the delivery vehicle for all of our new silicon offerings used to develop and run customer-specific software applications and hardware designs. released at launch, the base platform is comprised of: fpga silicon; vivado design suite design environment; integration support of optional third-party synthesis, simulation, and signal integrity tools; reference designs; development boards and ip. the domain-specific platform targets one of the three primary xilinx fpga user profiles: the embedded processing developer; the dsp developer; or the logic/connectivity developer. it accomplishes this by augmenting the base platform with a targeted set of integrated technologies, including: higher-level design methodologies and tools; domain-specific ip including embedded, mixed signal, video, dsp and connectivity; domain-specific development hardware and reference designs; and operating systems and software. the market-specific platform enables software or hardware developers to quickly build and run their specific application or solution. built for specific markets such as automotive, consumer, aerospace and defense, communications, audio, video and broadcast, industrial, or scientific and medical, the market-specific platform integrates both the base and domain-specific platforms with higher targeted applications elements such as ip, reference designs and boards optimized for a particular market. design tools to accommodate the various design methodologies and design flows employed by the wide range of our customers' user profiles such as system designers, algorithm designers, software coders and logic designers, we provide the appropriate design environment tailored to each user profile for design creation, design implementation and design verification. during april 2012, xilinx introduced the next-generation vivado design suite designed to improve developer productivity resulting in faster design integration and implementation. the vivado design suite hallmarks include an easy-to-use ip-centric design flow and significant improvement in run times. the standards-based vivado tools include high-level synthesis to provide a more direct flow in retargeting dsps and general purpose processor designs into our fpgas, ip integrator to rapidly stitch together cores at higher levels of abstraction, and a new analytical place-and-route engine which significantly improves run times. the vivado design suite supports both xilinx 7 series fpgas and zynq-7000, our programmable socs. the previous generation tool suite, the ise design suite, supports xilinx 7 series fpgas, programmable socs and all previous generation fpgas, enabling customers to transition to the vivado design suite when the timing is right for their design needs. both the vivado design suite and ise design suite operate with a wide range of third-party electronic design automation software point-tools offerings. intellectual property xilinx and various third parties offer hundreds of no charge and fee-bearing ip core licenses covering ethernet, memory controllers, interlaken and pcie interfaces, as well as an abundance of domain-specific ip in the areas of embedded, dsp and connectivity, and market-specific ip cores. in addition, our products and technology leverage industry standards such as arm amba axi-4 interconnect technology, ip-xact and ieee p1735 encryption to facilitate plug-and-play fpga design and take advantage of the large ecosystem of arm ip developers. development boards, kits and configuration products in addition to the broad selection of legacy development boards presently offered, we have introduced a new unified board strategy that enables the creation of a standardized and coordinated set of base boards available both from xilinx and our ecosystem vendors, all utilizing the industry-standard extensions that enable customization for market specific applications. adopting this standard for all of our base boards enables the creation of a scalable and extensible delivery mechanism for all xilinx programmable platforms. we also offer comprehensive development kits including hardware, design tools, ip and reference designs that are designed to streamline and accelerate the development of domain-specific and market-specific applications. 8 table of contents finally, xilinx offers a range of configuration products including one-time programmable and in-system programmable storage devices to configure xilinx fpgas. these programmable read-only memory (prom) products support all of our fpga devices. third-party alliances xilinx and certain third parties have developed and continue to offer a robust ecosystem of ip, boards, tools, services and support through the xilinx alliance program. xilinx also works with these third parties to promote our programmable platforms through third-party tools, ip, software, boards and design services. engineering services xilinx engineering services provide customers with engineering resources to augment their design teams and to provide expert design-specific advice. xilinx tailors its engineering services to the needs of its customers, ranging from hands-on training to full design creation and implementation. research and development our research and development (r&amp;d) activities are primarily directed toward the design of new ics, the development of new software design automation tools for hardware and embedded software, the design of logic ip, the adoption of advanced semiconductor manufacturing processes for ongoing cost reductions, performance and signal integrity improvements and lowering pld power consumption. as a result of our r&amp;d efforts, we have introduced a number of new products during the past several years including the virtex ultrascale, kintex ultrascale, virtex-7, kintex-7, artix-7 and zynq-7000 families. we have made enhancements to our ip core offerings and introduced vivado tools, our next generation software design suite. we extended our collaboration with our foundry suppliers in the development of 65nm, 45nm, 40nm and 28nm manufacturing technology, enabling us to be the first company in the pld industry to ship 45nm high-volume as well as 28nm and 20nm fpga devices. additionally, our investment in r&amp;d has allowed us to ship the industry's first 28nm with embedded arm technology as well as the industry's first 3d ic devices. our r&amp;d challenge is to continue to develop new products that create value-added solutions for customers. in fiscal 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , our r&amp;d expenses were $492.4 million , $475.5 million and $435.3 million , respectively. we believe technical leadership and innovation are essential to our future success and are committed to maintaining a significant level of r&amp;d investment. sales and distribution we sell our products to oems, emss and to electronic components distributors who resell these products to oems and emss. we use a dedicated global sales and marketing organization as well as independent sales representatives to generate sales. in general, we focus our direct demand creation efforts on a limited number of key accounts. distributors and independent sales representatives create demand within the balance of our customer base in defined territories. distributors also provide inventory, value-added services and logistics for a wide range of our oem customers. whether xilinx, the independent sales representative, or the distributor identifies the sales opportunity, a local distributor will process and fulfill the majority of all customer orders. in such situations, distributors are the sellers of the products and as such they bear all legal and financial risks generally related to the sale of commercial goods, including such risks as credit loss, inventory shrinkage, theft and foreign currency fluctuations, but excluding indemnity and warranty liability. in accordance with our distribution agreements and industry practice, we have granted our authorized distributors the contractual right to return certain amounts of unsold product on a periodic basis and also receive price adjustments for unsold product in the case of a change in list prices subsequent to the initial sale. revenue recognition on shipments to distributors worldwide is deferred until the products are sold to the distributors' end customers. avnet, inc. (avnet) distributes the substantial majority of our products worldwide. as of march 29, 2014 and march 30, 2013 , avnet accounted for 55% and 64% , respectively, of our total accounts receivable. resale of product through avnet accounted for 46% , 46% and 48% of our worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively. we also use other regional distributors throughout the world. we believe distributors provide a cost-effective means of reaching a broad range of customers while providing efficient logistics services. since plds are standard products, they do not carry many of the inventory risks posed by asics, and they simplify the requirements for distributor technical support. from time to time, we may add or terminate distributors in specific geographies, or move customers to a direct fulfillment model as we deem appropriate given our strategies, the level of distributor business activity and distributor performance and financial condition. see "note 2. summary of significant 9 table of contents accounting policies and concentrations of risk" to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. "financial statements and supplementary data," for information about concentrations of credit risk and "note 16. segment information" for information about our revenues from external customers and domestic and international operations. no end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues in fiscal 2014 , 2013 or 2012 . backlog as of march 29, 2014 , our backlog from oem customers and backlog from end customers reported by our distributors scheduled for delivery within the next three months was $322.0 million, compared to $253.0 million as of march 30, 2013 . orders from end customers to our distributors are subject to changes in delivery schedules or to cancellation without significant penalty. as a result, backlog from both oem customers and end customers reported by our distributors as of any particular period may not be a reliable indicator of revenue for any future period. wafer fabrication as a fabless semiconductor company, we do not manufacture wafers used for our ic products or proms. rather, we purchase our wafers from independent foundries including united microelectronics corporation (umc), tsmc, and samsung electronics co., ltd. (samsung). currently, umc manufactures the majority of our wafers and tsmc manufactures the wafers for our newest products. precise terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations with each wafer foundry. our strategy is to focus our resources on market development and creating new ics and software design tools rather than on wafer fabrication. we continuously evaluate opportunities to enhance foundry relationships and/or obtain additional capacity from our main suppliers as well as other suppliers of wafers manufactured with leading-edge process technologies, and we adjust loadings at particular foundries to meet our business needs. sort, assembly and test wafers are sorted by the foundry or independent sort subcontractors. sorted die are assembled by subcontractors. during the assembly process, the wafers are separated into individual die, which are then assembled into various package types. following assembly, the packaged units are generally tested by independent test subcontractors or by xilinx personnel. we purchase most of our assembly and some of our test services from siliconware precision industries ltd. in taiwan and amkor technology, inc. in korea and the philippines. quality certification xilinx has achieved and currently maintains quality management systems certification to tl9000/iso9001 for our facilities in san jose, california; longmont, colorado; singapore and hyderabad, india. in addition, xilinx achieved and currently maintains iso 14001 and ohsas 18001 environmental health and safety management system certifications in the san jose and singapore locations. patents and licenses while our various proprietary intellectual property rights are important to our success, we believe our business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. as of march 29, 2014 , we held over 3,200 issued united states (u.s.) patents, which vary in duration, and over 300 pending u.s. patent applications relating to our proprietary technology. we maintain an active program of filing for additional patents in the areas of, but not limited to, circuits, software, ic architecture, ip cores, system design, testing methodologies and other technologies relating to our products and business. we have licensed some parties to certain portions of our patent portfolio and obtained licenses to certain third-party patents as well. we have acquired various licenses from third parties to certain technologies that are implemented in ip cores or embedded in our plds, such as processors. those licenses support our continuing ability to make and sell these plds to our customers. we also have acquired various licenses to certain third-party proprietary software, open-source software and related technologies, such as compilers, for our design tools. continued use of such software and technology is important to the operation of the design tools upon which customers depend. 10 table of contents we maintain the xilinx trade name and trademarks, including the following trademarks that are registered in the u.s. and other countries: xilinx, the xilinx logo, artix, ise, kintex, spartan, virtex, vivado and zynq. maintaining these trademarks, and the goodwill associated with them, is important to our business. we have also obtained the rights to use certain trademarks owned by consortiums and other trademark owners that are related to our products and business. we intend to continue to protect our ip rights (including, for example, patents, copyrights and trademarks) vigorously. we believe that failure to enforce our intellectual property rights or failure to protect our trade secrets effectively could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we incurred, and in the future we may continue to incur, litigation expenses to defend against claims of infringement and to enforce our intellectual property rights against third parties. however, any such litigation may or may not be successful. corporate responsibility xilinx places a high level of importance on corporate responsibility. through senior-level sponsorship, regular environmental, health and safety assessments and company-wide performance targets, we strive to achieve a culture that emphasizes contribution to local and global communities through a number of key initiatives: company we strive to meet or exceed industry and regulatory standards for ethical business practices, product responsibility, and supplier management. all of xilinx's directors, officers and employees are required to comply not only with the letter of the laws, rules and regulations that govern the conduct of our business, but also with the spirit of those laws. environment we monitor regulatory and resource trends and are committed to setting focused targets for key resources and emissions. these targets address several parameters, including product design; chemical, energy, and water use; waste recycling; and emissions. as a company, we focus on reducing natural resource use, the solid and chemical waste of our operations and minimizing our overall environmental impact with regards to the communities around us and consistent with global climate change efforts. community we are committed to growing strategic relationships with a wide range of local organizations and programs that are designed to develop and strengthen communities located around the world. xilinx develops local community relationships at key sites through funding and involvement that encourages active participation, teamwork, and volunteerism. xilinx supports opportunities initiated by its employees and that involve participation and empowerment of its employees. we are committed to charitable giving programs that work toward systemic change and measurable results. workplace we provide a safe and healthy work environment where employee diversity is embraced and opportunities for training, growth, and advancement are strongly encouraged. the xilinx code of social responsibility outlines standards to ensure that working conditions at xilinx are safe and that workers are treated with respect, fairness and dignity. employees as of march 29, 2014 , we had 3,500 employees compared to 3,329 as of the end of the prior fiscal year. none of our employees are represented by a labor union. we have not experienced any work stoppages and believe we maintain good employee relations. executive officers of the registrant certain information regarding the executive officers of xilinx as of may 16, 2014 is set forth below: 11 table of contents name age position moshe n. gavrielov 59 president and chief executive officer (ceo) steven l. glaser 52 senior vice president, corporate strategy and marketing scott r. hover-smoot 59 senior vice president, general counsel and secretary jon a. olson 60 executive vice president, finance and chief financial officer (cfo) victor peng 54 executive vice president and general manager of products raja g. petrakian 49 senior vice president, worldwide operations krishna rangasayee 45 senior vice president and general manager, market segments and communications business unit vincent l. tong 52 senior vice president, worldwide quality and new product introductions frank a. tornaghi 59 senior vice president, worldwide sales there are no family relationships among the executive officers of the company or the board of directors. moshe n. gavrielov joined the company in january 2008 as president and ceo and was appointed to the board of directors in february 2008. prior to joining the company, mr. gavrielov served at cadence design systems, inc., an electronic design automation company, as executive vice president and general manager of the verification division from april 2005 through november 2007. mr. gavrielov served as ceo of verisity ltd., an electronic design automation company, from march 1998 to april 2005 before its acquisition by cadence design systems, inc. prior to joining verisity, mr. gavrielov spent nearly 10 years at lsi corporation (formerly lsi logic corporation), a semiconductor manufacturer, in a variety of executive management positions, including executive vice president of the products group, senior vice president and general manager of international marketing and sales and senior vice president and general manager of lsi logic europe plc. additionally, mr. gavrielov held various engineering and engineering management positions at digital equipment corporation and national semiconductor corporation. steven l. glaser joined the company in january 2011 as corporate vice president, strategic planning. in april 2012, mr. glaser was promoted to his current position of senior vice president, corporate strategy and marketing. prior to joining the company, mr. glaser held various senior positions in cadence design systems between april 2005 and january 2011, including corporate vice president of strategic development and corporate vice president of marketing for the verification division. from june 2003 to april 2005, he served as senior vice president of marketing at verisity ltd. prior to that, mr. glaser held various senior business and technical positions at companies in the semiconductor and electronic design automation industries. scott r. hover-smoot joined the company in october 2007 and currently serves as senior vice president, general counsel and secretary, a position he has held since may 2014. from october 2007 to may 2014, mr. hover-smoot served as corporate vice president, general counsel and secretary. from november 2001 to october 2007, mr. hover-smoot served as regional counsel and director of legal operations with tsmc, an independent semiconductor foundry. he served as vice president and general counsel of california micro devices corporation, a provider of application-specific protection devices and display electronics devices from june 1994 to november 2001. prior to joining california micro devices corporation, mr. hover-smoot spent over 20 years working in law firms including berliner-cohen, flehr, hohbach, test, albritton &amp; herbert and lyon &amp; lyon. jon a. olson joined the company in june 2005 and currently serves as executive vice president, finance and cfo, a position he has held since may 2014. from august 2006 to may 2014, mr. olson served as senior vice president, finance and cfo. from june 2005 to august 2006, he served as vice president, finance and cfo. prior to joining the company, mr. olson spent more than 25 years at intel corporation, a semiconductor chip maker, serving in a variety of positions, including vice president, finance and enterprise services, and director of finance. victor peng joined the company in april 2008 and currently serves as executive vice president and general manager of products, a position he has held since may 2014. from october 2013 to may 2014, mr. peng served as senior vice president and general manager of products. from april 2012 to october 2013, he served as senior vice president, programmable platforms development. from november 2008 to april 2012, he served as senior vice president, silicon engineering group. prior to joining the company, mr. peng served as corporate vice president, graphics products group at advanced micro devices (amd), a provider of processing solutions, from november 2005 to april 2008. prior to joining amd, mr. peng served in a variety of executive engineering positions at companies in the semiconductor and processor industries. 12 table of contents raja g. petrakian joined the company in october 1995 and has served in a number of key roles within operations, including senior director of supply chain management and vice president of supply chain management. dr. petrakian assumed his current position of senior vice president, worldwide operations in march 2009. prior to joining xilinx, dr. petrakian spent more than three years at the ibm t.j. research center serving as a research staff member in the manufacturing research department. krishna rangasayee joined the company in july 1999 and currently serves as senior vice president, and general manager, market segments and communications business unit, a position he has held since october 2013. prior to that, he served in a number of key roles, including as senior director of vertical markets and partnerships from november 2005 through june 2008. he then served as the vice president of strategic planning from july 2008 through september 2010 and was promoted to the rank of corporate vice president for the same function. mr. rangasayee assumed the position of corporate vice president and general manager, communications business unit in october 2010. mr. rangasayee was promoted to the position of senior vice president, and general manager, communications business unit in april 2012. prior to joining xilinx, mr. rangasayee held various positions at altera, a provider of programmable logic solutions, and cypress semiconductor, a semiconductor company. vincent l. tong joined the company in may 1990 and has served in a number of key roles, including vice president of product technology and as vice president, worldwide quality and reliability. in april 2008, he assumed his current position of senior vice president, worldwide quality and new product introductions and assumed the additional role of executive leader, asia pacific in october 2011. prior to joining the company, mr. tong served in a variety of engineering positions at monolithic memories, a producer of logic devices, and amd. mr. tong serves on the board of the global semiconductor alliance, a non-profit semiconductor organization. frank a. tornaghi joined the company in february 2008 as vice president, worldwide sales and assumed his current position of senior vice president, worldwide sales in april 2008. prior to joining the company, mr. tornaghi spent 22 years at lsi corporation. mr. tornaghi acted as an independent consultant from april 2006 until he joined the company. he served as executive vice president, worldwide sales at lsi corporation from july 2001 to april 2006 and as vice president, north america sales, from may 1993 to july 2001. from 1984 until may 1993, mr. tornaghi held various management positions in sales at lsi corporation. additional information we make available, via a link through our investor relations website located at www.investor.xilinx.com, access to our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the u.s. securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (exchange act) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission (sec). all such filings on our investor relations website are available free of charge. printed copies of these documents are also available to stockholders without charge, upon written request directed to xilinx, inc., attn: investor relations, 2100 logic drive, san jose, ca 95124. further, a copy of this annual report on form 10-k is located at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room can be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings at http://www.sec.gov. the content on any website referred to in this filing is not incorporated by reference into this filing unless expressly noted otherwise. additional information required by this item 1 is incorporated by reference to the section captioned "net revenues - net revenues by geography" in item 7. "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and to "note 16. segment information" to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. "financial statements and supplementary data." this annual report includes trademarks and service marks of xilinx and other companies that are unregistered and registered in the u.s. and other countries. item 1a. risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks to the company. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company, or that the company's management currently deems immaterial, also may impair its business operations. if any of the risks described below were to occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 13 table of contents our success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products and failure to do so would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. our success depends in large part on our ability to develop and introduce new products that address customer requirements and compete effectively on the basis of price, density, functionality, power consumption and performance. the success of new product introductions is dependent upon several factors, including: timely completion of new product designs; ability to generate new design opportunities and design wins; availability of specialized field application engineering resources supporting demand creation and customer adoption of new products; ability to utilize advanced manufacturing process technologies on circuit geometries of 28nm and smaller; achieving acceptable yields; ability to obtain adequate production capacity from our wafer foundries and assembly and test subcontractors; ability to obtain advanced packaging; availability of supporting software design tools; utilization of predefined ip logic; customer acceptance of advanced features in our new products; and market acceptance of our customers' products. our product development efforts may not be successful, our new products may not achieve industry acceptance and we may not achieve the necessary volume of production that would lead to further per unit cost reductions. revenues relating to our mature products are expected to decline in the future, which is normal for our product life cycles. as a result, we may be increasingly dependent on revenues derived from design wins for our newer products as well as anticipated cost reductions in the manufacture of our current products. we rely primarily on obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture of existing products, and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and other price/performance factors that enable us to increase revenues while maintaining consistent margins. to the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner, or to the extent that our products do not achieve market acceptance at prices with higher margins, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we rely on independent foundries for the manufacture of all of our products and a manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could adversely affect our operations. most of our wafers are manufactured in taiwan by umc and by tsmc for our newest products. in addition, we also have wafers manufactured in south korea by samsung. terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations between xilinx and these wafer foundries, which usually result in short-term agreements that do not provide for long-term supply or allocation commitments. we are dependent on these foundries, especially umc, which supplies the substantial majority of our wafers. we rely on umc, tsmc and our other foundries to produce wafers with competitive performance attributes. therefore, the foundries, particularly tsmc who manufactures our newest products, must be able to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies and increased wafer sizes, produce wafers at acceptable yields and deliver them in a timely manner. furthermore, we cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our wafers will offer us competitive pricing terms or other commercial terms important to our business. we cannot guarantee that our foundries will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies or difficulties due to limitations of new and existing process technologies. furthermore, we cannot guarantee the foundries will be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products or that they will continue to manufacture a product for the full life of the product. in addition, weak economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of the foundries and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us. for example, we may experience supply shortages due to the difficulties foundries may encounter if they must rapidly increase their production capacities from low utilization levels to high utilization levels because of an unexpected increase in demand. we may also experience supply shortages due to very strong demand for our products and a surge in demand for semiconductors in general, which may lead to tightening of foundry capacity across the industry. the insolvency of a foundry or any significant manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity would disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. general economic conditions and any related deterioration in the global business environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. during the past five years, global consumer confidence eroded amidst concerns over declining asset values, inflation, volatility in energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, rising unemployment, and the stability and solvency of financial institutions, financial markets, businesses and sovereign nations, among other concerns. these concerns slowed global economic growth and resulted in recessions in numerous countries, including many of those in north america, europe and asia. the financial condition of certain sovereign nations, particularly in europe, is of continuing concern as the sovereign debt crisis 14 table of contents remains unresolved. these weak economic conditions resulted in reduced customer demand and had a negative impact on our results of operations for the second and third quarter of fiscal 2012 and the third quarter of fiscal 2013. if weak economic conditions return, there may be a number of negative effects on our business, including customers or potential customers reducing or delaying orders, the insolvency of key suppliers, potentially causing production delays, the inability of customers to obtain credit, and the insolvency of one or more customers. any of these effects could impact our ability to effectively manage inventory levels and collect receivables and ultimately decrease our net revenues and profitability. the semiconductor industry is characterized by cyclical market patterns and a significant industry downturn could adversely affect our operating results. the semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and our financial performance has been affected by downturns in the industry. down cycles are generally characterized by price erosion and weaker demand for our products. weaker demand for our products resulting from economic conditions in the end markets we serve and reduced capital spending by our customers can result, and in the past has resulted, in excess and obsolete inventories and corresponding inventory write-downs. we attempt to identify changes in market conditions as soon as possible; however, the dynamics of the market in which we operate make prediction of and timely reaction to such events difficult. due to these and other factors, our past results are not reliable predictors of our future results. the nature of our business makes our revenues difficult to predict which could have an adverse impact on our business. in addition to the challenging market conditions we may face, we have limited visibility into the demand for our products, particularly new products, because demand for our products depends upon our products being designed into our end customers' products and those products achieving market acceptance. due to the complexity of our customers' designs, the design to volume production process for our customers requires a substantial amount of time, frequently longer than a year. in addition, we are dependent upon "turns," orders received and turned for shipment in the same quarter. these factors make it difficult for us to forecast future sales and project quarterly revenues. the difficulty in forecasting future sales impairs our ability to project our inventory requirements, which could result, and in the past has resulted, in inventory write-downs or failure to meet customer product demands in a timely manner. in addition, difficulty in forecasting revenues compromises our ability to provide forward-looking revenue and earnings guidance. if we are not able to compete successfully in our industry, our financial results and future prospects will be adversely affected. our plds compete in the logic ic industry, an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion. we expect increased competition from our primary pld competitors, altera, lattice and microsemi, and from new market entrants. in addition, competition from the asic market and from the assp market continues. we believe that important competitive factors in the logic ic industry include: product pricing; time-to-market; product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density; field upgradeability; adaptability of products to specific applications; ease of use and functionality of software design tools; availability and functionality of predefined ip logic; inventory and supply chain management; access to leading-edge process technology and assembly capacity; ability to provide timely customer service and support; and access to advanced packaging technology. our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high-volume, low-cost and low-power applications as well as high-performance, high-density applications. however, we may not be successful in executing this strategy. in addition, we anticipate continued pressure from our customers to reduce prices, which may outpace our ability to lower the cost for established products. other competitors include manufacturers of: high-density programmable logic products characterized by fpga type architectures; high-volume and low-cost fpgas as programmable replacements for asics and assps; asics and assps with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; high-speed, low-density complex programmable logic devices; high-performance digital signal processing devices; products with embedded processors; products with embedded multi-gigabit transceivers; and 15 table of contents other new or emerging programmable logic products. several companies have introduced products that compete with ours or have announced their intention to sell pld products. to the extent that our efforts to compete are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the benefits of programmable logic have attracted a number of competitors to this segment. we recognize that different applications require different programmable technologies, and we are developing architectures, processes and products to meet these varying customer needs. recognizing the increasing importance of standard software solutions, we have developed common software design tools that support the full range of our ic products. we believe that automation and ease of design are significant competitive factors in this segment. we could also face competition from our licensees. in the past we have granted limited rights to other companies with respect to certain aspects of our older technology, and we may do so in the future. granting such rights may enable these companies to manufacture and market products that may be competitive with some of our older products. increased costs of wafers and materials, or shortages in wafers and materials, could adversely impact our gross margins and lead to reduced revenues. if greater demand for wafers is not offset by an increase in foundry capacity, market demand for wafers or production and assembly materials increases, or if a supplier of our wafers ceases or suspends operations, our supply of wafers and other materials could become limited. such shortages raise the likelihood of potential wafer price increases, wafer shortages or shortages in materials at production and test facilities, resulting in potential inability to address customer product demands in a timely manner. for example, when certain suppliers were forced to temporarily halt production as the result of a natural disaster, this resulted in a tightening of supply for those materials. such shortages of wafers and materials as well as increases in wafer or materials prices could adversely affect our gross margins and would adversely affect our ability to meet customer demands and lead to reduced revenue. we depend on distributors, primarily avnet, to generate a majority of our sales and complete order fulfillment. resale of product through avnet accounted for 46% of our worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2014 and as of march 29, 2014 , avnet accounted for 55% of our total net accounts receivable. any adverse change to our relationship with avnet or our remaining distributors could have a material impact on our business. furthermore, if a key distributor materially defaults on a contract or otherwise fails to perform, our business and financial results would suffer. in addition, we are subject to concentrations of credit risk in our trade accounts receivable, which includes accounts of our distributors. a significant reduction of effort by a distributor to sell our products or a material change in our relationship with one or more distributors may reduce our access to certain end customers and adversely affect our ability to sell our products. in addition, the financial health of our distributors and our continuing relationships with them are important to our success. unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health of some of these distributors, particularly our smaller distributors. this could result in the insolvency of certain distributors, the inability of distributors to obtain credit to finance the purchase of our products, or cause distributors to delay payment of their obligations to us and increase our credit risk exposure. our business could be harmed if the financial health of these distributors impairs their performance and we are unable to secure alternate distributors. we are dependent on independent subcontractors for most of our assembly and test services, and unavailability or disruption of these services could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. we are dependent on subcontractors to provide semiconductor assembly, substrate, test and shipment services. any prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, any disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, delays in stabilizing manufacturing processes and ramping up volume for new products, transitions to new service providers or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands. in addition, unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of these subcontractors and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us. these factors would result in reduced net revenues and could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. a number of factors, including our inventory strategy, can impact our gross margins. a number of factors, including yield, wafer pricing, product mix, market acceptance of our new products, competitive pricing dynamics, geographic and/or market segment pricing strategies can cause our gross margins to fluctuate. in addition, forecasting our gross margins is difficult because a significant portion of our business is based on turns within the same quarter. our current inventory levels are higher than historical norms due to our decision to build ahead of a previously planned closure of a particular foundry process line at one of our foundry partners, weaker than anticipated sales and a planned increase in safety 16 table of contents stock across newer technologies in anticipation of future revenue growth. in the event demand does not materialize, we may be subject to incremental obsolescence costs. in addition, future product cost reductions could have an increased impact on our inventory valuation, which would then impact our operating results. reductions in the average selling prices of our products could have a negative impact on our gross margins. the average selling prices of our products generally decline as the products mature. we seek to offset the decrease in selling prices through yield improvement, manufacturing cost reductions and increased unit sales. we also continue to develop higher value products or product features that increase, or slow the decline of, the average selling price of our products. however, there is no guarantee that our ongoing efforts will be successful or that they will keep pace with the decline in selling prices of our products, which could ultimately lead to a decline in revenues and have a negative effect on our gross margins. because of our international business and operations, we are vulnerable to the economic conditions of the countries in which we operate and currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. in addition to our u.s. operations, we also have significant international operations, including foreign sales offices to support our international customers and distributors, our regional headquarters in ireland and singapore and an r&amp;d site in india. our international operations have grown because we have established certain operations and administrative functions outside the u.s. sales and operations outside of the u.s. subject us to the risks associated with conducting business in foreign economic and regulatory environments. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in countries in which we do significant business or by changes in foreign currency exchange rates affecting those countries. we derive over one-half of our revenues from international sales, primarily in the asia pacific region, europe and japan. past economic weaknesses in these markets adversely affected revenues. sales to all direct oems and distributors are denominated in u.s. dollars. while the recent movements of the euro and yen exchange rates against the u.s. dollar had no material impact to our business, increased volatility could impact our european and japanese customers. currency instability and volatility and disruptions in the credit and capital markets may increase credit risks for some of our customers and may impair our customers' ability to repay existing obligations. increased currency volatility could also positively or negatively impact our foreign-currency-denominated costs, assets and liabilities. in addition, any devaluation of the u.s. dollar relative to other foreign currencies may increase the operating expenses of our foreign subsidiaries adversely affecting our results of operations. furthermore, because we are increasingly dependent on the global economy, instability in worldwide economic environments occasioned, for example, directly or indirectly by political instability, terrorist activity, u.s. or other military actions, and international sanctions or other diplomatic actions (potentially including sanctions adopted or under consideration by the u.s. or european union with respect to russia or russian individuals or businesses), could adversely impact economic activity and lead to a contraction of capital spending by our customers generally or in specific regions. any or all of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. we are subject to the risks associated with conducting business operations outside of the u.s. which could adversely affect our business. in addition to international sales and support operations and development activities, we purchase our wafers from foreign foundries, have our commercial products assembled, packaged and tested by subcontractors located outside the u.s. and utilize third party warehouse operators to store and manage inventory levels for certain of our products. all of these activities are subject to the uncertainties associated with international business operations, including tax laws and regulations, trade barriers, economic sanctions, import and export regulations, duties and tariffs and other trade restrictions, changes in trade policies, anti-corruption laws, foreign governmental regulations, potential vulnerability of and reduced protection for ip, longer receivable collection periods and disruptions or delays in production or shipments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. additional factors that could adversely affect us due to our international operations include rising oil prices and increased costs of natural resources. moreover, our financial condition and results of operations could be affected in the event of political conflicts or economic crises in countries where our main wafer providers, warehouses, end customers and contract manufacturers who provide assembly and test services worldwide, are located. adverse change to the circumstances or conditions of our international business operations could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and changes in credit rating and in the market values of our portfolio investments which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. our cash, short-term and long-term investments represent significant assets that may be subject to fluctuating or even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements, changes in credit rating and financial market conditions. global credit market disruptions and economic slowdown and uncertainty have in the past negatively impacted the values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities. the global credit and capital markets may again experience significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system, uncertainty related to global economic conditions and concerns regarding sovereign financial stability. 17 table of contents therefore, there is a risk that we may incur other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments should credit market conditions deteriorate or the underlying assets fail to perform as anticipated. our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair values of our debt securities is judged to be other than temporary. furthermore, we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or financial market conditions. our failure to protect and defend our ip could impair our ability to compete effectively. we rely upon patent, copyright, trade secret, mask work and trademark laws to protect our ip. we cannot provide assurance that such ip rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, violated, circumvented or challenged. from time to time, third parties, including our competitors, have asserted against us patent, copyright and other ip rights to technologies that are important to us. third parties may attempt to misappropriate our ip through electronic or other means or assert infringement claims against our indemnitees or us in the future. such assertions by third parties may result in costly litigation, indemnity claims or other legal actions, and we may not prevail in such matters or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. this could result in the loss of our ability to import and sell our products or require us to pay costly royalties to third parties in connection with sales of our products. any infringement claim, indemnification claim, or impairment or loss of use of our ip could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our ability to design and introduce new products in a timely manner is dependent upon third-party ip. in the design and development of new products and product enhancements, we rely on third-party intellectual property such as software development tools and hardware testing tools. furthermore, certain product features may rely on intellectual property acquired from third parties. the design requirements necessary to meet future consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from semiconductor products may exceed the capabilities of the third-party intellectual property or development tools that are available to us. if the third-party intellectual property that we use becomes unavailable or fails to produce designs that meet consumer demands, our business could be adversely affected. we rely on information technology systems, and failure of these systems to function properly or unauthorized access to our systems could result in business disruption. we rely in part on various information technology (it) systems to manage our operations, including financial reporting, and we regularly evaluate these systems and make changes to improve them as necessary. consequently, we periodically implement new, or upgrade or enhance existing, operational and it systems, procedures and controls. for example, in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 we upgraded the it systems we use to manage our operations and record and report financial information, and in the past we simplified our supply chain and were required to make certain changes to our it systems. any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. these systems are also subject to power and telecommunication outages or other general system failures. failure of our it systems or difficulties in managing them could result in business disruption. we also may be subject to unauthorized access to our it systems through a security breach or attack. in the past there have been attempts by third parties to penetrate and/or infect our network and systems with malicious software, in an effort to gain access to our network and systems. we seek to detect and investigate any security incidents and prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. our business could be significantly harmed and we could be subject to third party claims in the event of such a security breach. earthquakes and other natural disasters could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the independent foundries upon which we rely to manufacture our products, as well as our california and singapore facilities, are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. umc's and tsmc's foundries in taiwan and our assembly and test partners in other regions as well as many of our operations in california are centered in areas that have been seismically active in the recent past and some areas have been affected by other natural disasters such as typhoons. any catastrophic event in these locations will disrupt our operations, including our manufacturing activities and our insurance may not cover losses resulting from such disruptions of our operations. this type of disruption could result in our inability to manufacture or ship products, thereby materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. for example, as a result of the march 2011 earthquake in japan, production at the seiko foundry at sakata was halted temporarily, impacting production of some of our older devices. in addition, suppliers of wafers and substrates were forced to halt production temporarily. disruption of operations at these foundries for any reason, including other natural disasters such as typhoons, tsunamis, volcano eruptions, fires or floods, as well as disruptions in access to adequate supplies of electricity, natural gas or water could cause delays in shipments of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. furthermore, natural disasters can also indirectly impact us. for example, our customers' supply of other complimentary products may be disrupted by a natural disaster and may cause them to delay orders of our products. 18 table of contents if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls, our stock price could be adversely affected. we are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (the act). our controls necessary for continued compliance with the act may not operate effectively at all times and may result in a material weakness disclosure. the identification of material weaknesses in internal control, if any, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements and could cause investors to lose confidence and our stock price to drop. we compete with others to attract and retain key personnel, and any loss of, or inability to attract, such personnel would harm us. we depend on the efforts and abilities of certain key members of management and other technical personnel. our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to retain such personnel and attract and retain other highly qualified personnel, particularly product engineers. competition for such personnel is intense and we may not be successful in hiring or retaining new or existing qualified personnel. from time to time we have effected restructurings which eliminate a number of positions. even if such personnel are not directly affected by the restructuring effort, such terminations can have a negative impact on morale and our ability to attract and hire new qualified personnel in the future. if we lose existing qualified personnel or are unable to hire new qualified personnel, as needed, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. unfavorable results of legal proceedings could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. from time to time we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business. the amount of damages alleged in certain legal claims may be significant. for example, in december 2013, we entered into a settlement and license agreement with pact in which the parties agreed to dismiss with prejudice all outstanding patent litigation among us, avnet and pact. as part of the settlement, we agreed to pay pact a lump sum of $33.5 million. certain other claims involving the company are not yet resolved, including those that are discussed under item 3. "legal proceedings," included in part i of this form 10-k, and additional claims may arise in the future. results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. regardless of its merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention and we may enter into material settlements to avoid these risks. should we fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against us in the same reporting period, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that would materially and adversely affect a portion of our business and might materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. our products could have defects which could result in reduced revenues and claims against us. we develop complex and evolving products that include both hardware and software. despite our testing efforts and those of our subcontractors, defects may be found in existing or new products. these defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair or replacement costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with customers. subject to certain terms and conditions, we have agreed to compensate certain customers for limited specified costs they actually incur in the event our hardware products experience epidemic failure. as a result, epidemic failure and other performance problems could result in claims against us, the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and would likely harm our business. our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. in addition, we could be subject to product liability claims. a product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly to defend. product liability risks are particularly significant with respect to aerospace, automotive and medical applications because of the risk of serious harm to users of these products. any product liability claim, whether or not determined in our favor, could result in significant expense, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and harm our business. in preparing our financial statements, we make good faith estimates and judgments that may change or turn out to be erroneous. in preparing our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s., we must make estimates and judgments in applying our most critical accounting policies. those estimates and judgments have a significant impact on the results we report in our consolidated financial statements. the most difficult estimates and subjective judgments that we make concern valuation of marketable and non-marketable securities, revenue recognition, inventories, long-lived assets including acquisition-related intangibles, goodwill, taxes and stock-based compensation. we base our estimates on historical experience, input from outside experts and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. we also have other key accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult, but which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial reporting. actual results may differ materially from these estimates. if these estimates or their related assumptions change, our operating results for the periods in which we revise our estimates or assumptions could be adversely and perhaps materially affected. 19 table of contents the conditional conversion features of our 2.625% senior convertible debentures due june 15, 2017 (2017 convertible notes) were triggered and holders of the 2017 convertible notes may elect to convert such 2017 convertible notes which could have a material effect on our liquidity. the 2017 convertible notes have conditional conversion features which were triggered in fiscal 2013. holders of the 2017 convertible notes are entitled to convert the 2017 convertible notes at any time during specified periods at their option. as a result of this, we were required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the 2017 convertible notes as a current rather than long-term liability. in addition, we were required to increase the number of shares used in our per share calculations to reflect the potentially dilutive impact of the conversion. if one or more holders elect to convert their 2017 convertible notes, we would be required to settle any converted principal through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. our failure to comply with the requirements of the international traffic and arms regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. certain xilinx space-grade fpgas and related technologies are subject to the international traffic in arms regulations (itar), which are administered by the u.s. department of state. the itar governs the export and re-export of these fpgas, the transfer of related technical data and the provision of defense services, as well as offshore production, test and assembly. we are required to maintain an internal compliance program and security infrastructure to meet itar requirements. an inability to obtain the required export licenses, or to predict when they will be granted, increases the difficulties of forecasting shipments. in addition, security or compliance program failures that could result in penalties or a loss of export privileges, as well as stringent itar licensing restrictions that may make our products less attractive to overseas customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. our inability to effectively control the sale of our products on the gray market could have a material adverse effect on us. we market and sell our products directly to oems and through authorized third-party distributors which helps to ensure that products delivered to our customers are authentic and properly handled. from time to time, customers may purchase products bearing our name from the unauthorized "gray market." these parts may be counterfeit, salvaged or re-marked parts, or parts that have been altered, mishandled, or damaged. gray market products result in shadow inventory that is not visible to us, thus making it difficult to forecast supply or demand. also, when gray market products enter the market, we and our authorized distributors may compete with brokers of these discounted products, which can adversely affect demand for our products and negatively impact our margins. in addition, our reputation with customers may be negatively impacted when gray market products bearing our name fail or are found to be substandard. the conflict minerals provisions of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act could result in additional costs and liabilities. in accordance with the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, the sec established new disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use "conflict" minerals mined from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries in their products, whether or not these products are manufactured by third parties. these new requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of our semiconductor products. there will also be costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, including for due diligence in regard to the sources of any conflict minerals used in our products, in addition to the cost of remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. we may face reputational challenges if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all minerals used in our products through the due diligence process we implement. moreover, we may encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products are certified as conflict free. considerable amounts of our common shares are available for issuance under our equity incentive plans and 2017 convertible notes, and significant issuances in the future may adversely impact the market price of our common shares. as of march 29, 2014 we had 2.00 billion authorized common shares, of which 268.6 million shares were outstanding. in addition, 36.9 million common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to our equity incentive plans and employee stock purchase plan, 20.0 million common shares were reserved for issuance upon conversion or repurchase of the 2017 convertible notes and 20.0 million common shares were reserved for issuance upon exercise of warrants. the availability of substantial amounts of our common shares resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity incentive plans or the 20 table of contents conversion or repurchase of convertible debentures using common shares, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. we have indebtedness that could adversely affect our financial position and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. the aggregate amount of our consolidated indebtedness as of march 29, 2014 was $1.60 billion (principal amount), which includes $500.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 2.125% notes due 2019 (2019 notes), $500.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 3.000% notes due 2021 (2021 notes) and $600.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 2017 convertible notes. we also may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our indebtedness may: make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including making scheduled principal and interest payments on the debentures and our other indebtedness; limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; require us to use a portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments; limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions; and require us to repatriate off-shore cash to the u.s. at unfavorable tax rates. our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. the agreements governing the 2019 notes and 2021 notes contain covenants that may adversely affect our ability to operate our business. the indentures governing the 2019 notes and 2021 notes contain various covenants limiting our and our subsidiaries' ability to, among other things: create certain liens on principal property or the capital stock of certain subsidiaries; enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions with respect to principal property; consolidate or merge with, or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all our assets, taken as a whole, to, another person. a failure to comply with these covenants and other provisions in these indentures could result in events of default under the indentures, which could permit acceleration of the 2019 notes and the 2021 notes. any required repayment as a result of such acceleration could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. the call options and warrant transactions related to our 2017 convertible notes may affect the value of the debentures and our common stock. to hedge against potential dilution upon conversion of the 2017 convertible notes, we purchased call options on our common stock from the hedge counterparties. we also sold warrants to the hedge counterparties, which could separately have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants of $42.46 per share. as the hedge counterparties and their respective affiliates modify hedge positions, they may enter or unwind various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchase or sell our common stock in secondary market transactions. this activity also could affect the market price of our common stock and/or debentures, which could affect the ability of the holders of the debentures to convert and the number of shares and value of the consideration that will be received by the holders of the debentures upon conversion. acquisitions and strategic investments present risks, and we may not realize the goals that were contemplated at the time of a transaction. we recently acquired technology companies whose products complement our products, and in the past we have made a number of strategic investments in other technology companies. we may make similar acquisitions and strategic investments in the future. acquisitions and strategic investments present risks, including: our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management's attention may be diverted by investment, acquisition, transition or integration activities; 21 table of contents an acquisition or strategic investment may not further our business strategy as we expected, and we may not integrate an acquired company or technology as successfully as we expected; our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by claims or liabilities that we assume from an acquired company or technology or that are otherwise related to an acquisition; we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines; we may have higher than anticipated costs in continuing support and development of acquired products, and in general and administrative functions that support such products; our strategic investments may not perform as expected; and we may experience unexpected changes in how we are required to account for our acquisitions and strategic investments pursuant to u.s. gaap. the occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions or strategic investments. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our investment portfolio, which consists of fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $3.39 billion as of march 29, 2014 . our primary aim with our investment portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal and meeting liquidity needs. our investment portfolio includes municipal bonds, mortgage-backed securities, financial institution securities, non-financial institution securities, student loan auction rate securities, u.s. and foreign government and agency securities and debt mutual funds. in accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer based upon the issuer's credit rating. these securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. a hypothetical 100 basis-point (one percentage point) increase or decrease in interest rates compared to rates at march 29, 2014 and march 30, 2013 would have affected the fair value of our investment portfolio by approximately $53.0 million and $51.0 million, respectively. credit market risk the global credit markets may experience adverse conditions that negatively impact the values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities. the global credit and capital markets may experience significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system, uncertainty related to global economic conditions and concerns regarding sovereign financial stability. therefore, there is a risk that we may incur other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments should credit market conditions deteriorate. see "note 4. financial instruments" to our consolidated financial statements, included inrisk factors 13 "risk factors." often, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words, such as "may," "will," "could," "should," "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," "continue," "plan," "intend," "project" and other similar terminology, or the negative of such terms. we disclaim any responsibility to update or revise any forward-looking statement provided in this annual report or in any of our other communications for any reason. item 1. business xilinx, inc. (xilinx, the company or we) designs and develops programmable devices and associated technologies, including: integrated circuits (ics) in the form of programmable logic devices (plds), including programmable system on chips (socs) and three-dimensional ics, or 3d ics; software design tools to program the plds; targeted reference designs; printed circuit boards; and intellectual property (ip), which consists of xilinx and various third-party verification and ip cores. in addition to its programmable platforms, xilinx provides design services, customer training, field engineering and technical support. our plds include field programmable gate arrays (fpgas), complex programmable logic devices (cplds) that our customers program to perform desired logic functions, and programmable socs, which combine industry standard arm processor-based systems with programmable logic in a single device. we also design and develop 3d ics, which consist of a combination of fpgas, transceivers and a wide memory interface in a single package to exceed the capacity and bandwidth of monolithic devices. our product portfolio is designed to provide high integration and quick time-to-market for electronic equipment manufacturers in end markets such as wired and wireless communications, industrial, scientific and medical, aerospace and defense, audio, video and broadcast, consumer, automotive and test and measurement. we sell our products and services through independent domestic and foreign distributors and through direct sales to original equipment manufacturers (oems) and electronic manufacturing service providers (ems). sales are generated by these independent distributors, independent sales representative or our direct sales organization. xilinx was founded and incorporated in california in february 1984. in april 1990, the company was reincorporated in delaware. our corporate facilities and executive offices are located at 2100 logic drive, san jose, california 95124, and our website address is www.xilinx.com. industry overview there are three principal types of ics used in most digital electronic systems: processors, which generally are utilized for control and computing tasks; memory devices, which are used for storing program instructions and data; and logic devices, which generally are used to manage the interchange and manipulation of digital signals within a system. xilinx designs and develops plds, a type of logic device. alternatives to plds may include application specific integrated circuits (asics) and application specific standard products (assps). plds, asics and assps may be utilized in many of the same types of electronic systems. however, differences in unit pricing, development cost, product performance, reliability, power consumption, capacity, features and functionality, ease of use and time-to-market determine which devices are best-suited for specific applications. 3 table of contents plds have key competitive advantages over asics and assps, including: faster time-to-market and increased design flexibility. both of these advantages are enabled by xilinx desktop software which allows users to implement and revise their designs quickly. in contrast, asics and assps require significant development time and offer limited, if any, flexibility to make design changes. plds are standard components. this means that the same device can be sold to many different users for a myriad of applications. in sharp contrast, asics and assps are customized for an individual user or a specific application. plds are generally disadvantaged in terms of relative device size when compared to chips that are designed to perform a fixed function in a single or small set of applications. asics and assps tend to be smaller than plds performing the same fixed function, resulting in a lower unit cost. however, there is a high fixed cost associated with asic and assp development that is not applicable to pld customers. this fixed cost of asic and assp development is expected to significantly increase on next generation technology nodes. from a total cost of development perspective, asics and assps have generally been more cost effective when used in high-volume production, and plds have generally been more cost effective when used in low- to mid-volume production. however, we expect plds to be able to address higher volume applications and gain market share from asic and assp suppliers as the fixed cost of asic and assp development increases on next generation technology nodes. an overview of typical pld end market applications for our products is shown in the following table: end markets sub-segments applications communications &amp; data center wireless 3g/4g base stations wireless backhaul wireline enterprise routers and switches metro optical networks data centers industrial, aerospace &amp; defense industrial, scientific and medical factory automation medical imaging test and measurement semiconductor test and measurement equipment asic emulation and prototyping aerospace and defense secure communications avionics electronic warfare and surveillance broadcast, consumer &amp; consumer digital televisions automotive multifunction printers set-top boxes automotive infotainment systems driver information systems driver assistance systems audio, video and broadcast cable head-end systems post production equipment broadcast cameras other miscellaneous high performance computing computer peripherals 4 table of contents strategy and competition our strategy for expansion is the displacement of asics and assps in the development of next generation electronic systems. the costs and risks associated with application-specific devices can only be justified for high-volume or highly-specialized commodity products. programmable platforms, alternatively, are becoming critical for our customers to meet increasingly stringent product requirements - cost, power, performance and density - in a business environment characterized by increased complexity, shrinking market windows, rapidly changing market demands, capped engineering budgets, escalating asic and assp fixed engineering costs and increased economic and development risk. with every new generation of fpgas, our strategy is to increase the performance, density and system-level functionality and integration, while driving down cost and power consumption at each manufacturing process node. this enables us to provide simpler, smarter programmable platforms and design methodologies allowing our customers to focus on innovation and differentiation of their products. our plds compete in the logic ic industry, an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion. we expect continued competition from our primary pld competitors such as altera corporation (altera), lattice semiconductor corporation (lattice) and microsemi corporation (microsemi), and from assp vendors such as broadcom corporation (broadcom), marvell technology group, ltd. (marvell) and texas instruments incorporated (texas instruments), as well as from new companies that may enter the traditional programmable logic market segment. in addition, we expect continued competition from the asic market, which has been ongoing since the inception of fpgas. other competitors include manufacturers of: high-density programmable logic products characterized by fpga-type architectures; high-volume and low-cost fpgas as programmable replacements for asics and assps; asics and assps with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; high-speed, low-density cplds; high-performance digital signal processing (dsp) devices; products with embedded processors; products with embedded multi-gigabit transceivers; and other new or emerging programmable logic products. we believe that important competitive factors in the logic ic industry include: product pricing; time-to-market; product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density; field upgradability; adaptability of products to specific applications; ease of use and functionality of software design tools; availability and functionality of predefined ip; inventory and supply chain management; access to leading-edge process technology and assembly capacity; ability to provide timely customer service and support; and access to advanced packaging technology. silicon product overview a brief overview of the silicon product offerings is listed in the table below. these products comprise the majority of our revenues. additionally, some of our more mature product families have been excluded from the table, although they continue to generate revenues. we operate and track our results in one operating segment for financial reporting purposes. 5 table of contents product families plds date introduced virtex ultrascale tm may 2014 kintex ultrascale tm november 2013 virtex-7 june 2010 kintex-7 june 2010 artix -7 june 2010 zynq -7000 march 2011 virtex-6 february 2009 spartan -6 february 2009 virtex-5 may 2006 see information under the caption "results of operations - net revenues" in item 7. "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" for information about our revenues from our product families. see also "note 16. segment information" to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8. "financial information and supplementary data" for information regarding segments. ultrascale+ product families xilinx recently introduced the ultrascale+ portfolio, which consists of three product families, and is manufactured using taiwan semiconductor manufacturing company limited's (tsmc) 16 nanometer (nm) finfet+ process. the ultrascale+ portfolio includes fpgas, 3d ic technology, and mpsocs, combining new memory, 3d - on 3d and multiprocessing soc technologies. with this portfolio, xilinx addresses a broad range of next generation applications, including lte advanced and early 5g wireless infrastructure, terabit wired communications, automotive, and the industrial internet-of-things (iot). ultrascale product families these devices deliver an asic-class advantage, based on the ultrascale architecture and utilizing tsmc's 20soc gate density process. these devices deliver next generation routing, asic-like clocking, and enhancements to logic and fabric to eliminate interconnect bottlenecks while supporting consistent device utilization of more than 90% without performance degradation. kintex ultrascale fpgas represent the company's second generation mid-range fpga family. these devices offer high price-performance at the lowest power. kintex ultrascale devices are designed to meet the requirements for the growing number of key applications including next generation wired and wireless communications and ultra-high definition displays and equipment. virtex ultrascale devices provide advanced levels of performance, system integration and bandwidth on a single chip. the largest family member delivers 4.4m logic cells, more than doubling xilinx's industry's highest capacity device and delivering 50m equivalent asic gates. virtex ultrascale devices are expected to be used in the industry's most challenging applications including: 400g communication applications, high performance computing, intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance systems and asic emulation and prototyping. 28nm product families the 28nm product families are fabricated on a high-k metal gate, high performance and low power 28nm process technology. these product families are based on a scalable and optimized architecture, which enables design, ip portability and re-use across all families as well as provides designers the ability to achieve the appropriate combination of i/o support, performance, feature quantities, packaging and power consumption to address a wide range of applications. the 28nm product families include: 6 table of contents virtex-7 fpgas, including 3d ics, are optimized for applications requiring the highest capacity, performance, dsp and serial connectivity with transceivers operating up to 28g. target applications include 400g and 100g line cards, high-performance computing and test and measurement applications. kintex-7 fpgas represent xilinx's first mid-range fpga family. these devices maximize price-performance and performance per watt. target applications include wireless lte infrastructure, video display technology and medical imaging. artix-7 fpgas offer the lowest power and system cost at higher performance than alternative high volume fpgas. these devices are targeted to high volume applications such as handheld portable ultrasound devices, multi-function printers and software defined radios. the zynq-7000 family is the first family of xilinx programmable socs. this new class of product combines an industry-standard arm dual-core cortex -a9 mpcore processing system with xilinx 28nm architecture. there are five devices in the zynq-7000 soc family that allow designers to target cost sensitive as well as high-performance applications from a single platform using industry-standard tools. these devices are designed to enable incremental market opportunities in applications such as industrial motor control, driver assistance and smart surveillance systems, and smart heterogeneous wireless networks. 40nm and 45nm product families the virtex-6 fpga family consists of 13 devices and is the sixth generation in the virtex series of fpgas. virtex-6 fpgas are fabricated on a high-performance 40nm process technology. there are three virtex-6 families, and each is optimized to deliver different feature mixes to address a variety of markets. the latest generation in the spartan fpga series, the spartan-6 fpga family, is fabricated on a low-power 45nm process technology. the spartan-6 family is the pld industry's only 45nm high-volume fpga family, consisting of 11 devices in two product families. other product families prior generation virtex families include virtex-5, virtex-4, virtex-ii pro, virtex-ii, virtex-e and the original virtex family. spartan family fpgas include 90nm spartan-3 fpgas, the spartan-3e family and the spartan-3a family. prior generation spartan families include spartan-iie, spartan-ii, spartan xl and the original spartan family. cplds operate on the lowest end of the programmable logic density spectrum. cplds are single-chip, nonvolatile solutions characterized by instant-on and universal interconnect. cplds combine the advantages of ultra-low power consumption with the benefits of high performance and low cost. prior generations of cplds include the coolrunner tm and xc9500 product families. easypath fpgas easypath fpgas offer customers a fast, simple method of cost-reducing fpga designs. easypath fpgas use the same production masks and fabrication process as standard fpgas and are tested to a specific customer application to improve yield and lower costs. as a result, easypath fpgas provide customers with significant cost reduction when compared to the standard fpga devices without the conversion risk, engineering effort, or the additional time required to move to an asic. the latest generation of easypath fpgas and easypath-7 fpgas provide lower total product cost of ownership for cost-reducing high performance fpgas. design platforms and services programmable platforms we offer three types of programmable platforms that support our customers' designs and reduce their development efforts: the base platform is the delivery vehicle for all of our new silicon offerings used to develop and run customer-specific software applications and hardware designs. released at launch, the base platform is comprised of: fpga silicon; vivado design suite design environment; integration support for optional third-party synthesis, simulation, and signal integrity tools; reference designs; development boards and ip. the domain-specific platform targets one of the three primary xilinx fpga user profiles: the embedded processing developer; the dsp developer; or the logic/connectivity developer. it accomplishes this by augmenting the base platform with a targeted set of integrated technologies, including: higher-level design methodologies and tools; domain-specific ip including embedded, mixed 7 table of contents signal, video, dsp and connectivity; domain-specific development hardware and reference designs; and operating systems and software. the market-specific platform enables software or hardware developers to quickly build and run their specific application or solution. built for specific markets such as automotive, consumer, aerospace and defense, communications, audio, video and broadcast, industrial, or scientific and medical, the market-specific platform integrates both the base and domain-specific platforms with higher targeted applications elements such as ip, reference designs and boards optimized for a particular market. design tools to accommodate the various design methodologies and design flows employed by the wide range of our customers' user profiles such as system designers, algorithm designers, software coders and logic designers, we provide the appropriate design environment tailored to each user profile for design creation, design implementation and design verification. in april 2012, xilinx introduced the next-generation vivado design suite designed to improve developer productivity resulting in faster design integration and implementation. the vivado design suite hallmarks include an easy-to-use ip-centric design flow and significant improvement in run times. the standards-based vivado tools include high-level synthesis to provide a more direct flow in retargeting dsps and general purpose processor designs into our fpgas, ip integrator to rapidly stitch together cores at higher levels of abstraction, and a new analytical place-and-route engine which significantly improves run times. the vivado design suite supports xilinx 7 series fpgas and zynq-7000, our programmable socs, as well as the ultrascale-product generation. the previous generation tool suite, the ise design suite, supports xilinx 7 series fpgas, programmable socs and all previous generation fpgas, enabling customers to transition to the vivado design suite when the timing is right for their design needs. both the vivado design suite and ise design suite operate with a wide range of third-party electronic design automation software point-tools offerings. within the past year, xilinx also introduced the sdx development environment, which will significantly expand the xilinx user base to include the broad community of systems and software engineers in both existing and new markets. this innovative development environment also enables end user and third party platform developers to rapidly define, integrate, and verify system level solutions and provide their end customers with a customized programming environment. intellectual property xilinx and various third parties offer hundreds of no charge and fee-bearing ip core licenses covering ethernet, memory controllers, interlaken and pcie interfaces, as well as an abundance of domain-specific ip in the areas of embedded, dsp and connectivity, and market-specific ip cores. in addition, our products and technology leverage industry standards such as arm amba axi-4 interconnect technology, ip-xact and ieee p1735 encryption to facilitate plug-and-play fpga design and take advantage of the large ecosystem of arm ip developers. development boards, kits and configuration products in addition to the broad selection of legacy development boards presently offered, we have introduced a new unified board strategy that enables the creation of a standardized and coordinated set of base boards available both from xilinx and our ecosystem vendors, all utilizing the industry-standard extensions that enable customization for market specific applications. adopting this standard for all of our base boards enables the creation of a scalable and extensible delivery mechanism for all xilinx programmable platforms. we also offer comprehensive development kits including hardware, design tools, ip and reference designs that are designed to streamline and accelerate the development of domain-specific and market-specific applications. finally, xilinx offers a range of configuration products including one-time programmable and in-system programmable storage devices to configure xilinx fpgas. these programmable read-only memory (prom) products support all of our fpga devices. third-party alliances xilinx and certain third parties have developed and continue to offer a robust ecosystem of ip, boards, tools, services and support through the xilinx alliance program. xilinx also works with these third parties to promote our programmable platforms through third-party tools, ip, software, boards and design services. engineering services 8 table of contents xilinx engineering services provide customers with engineering resources to augment their design teams and to provide expert design-specific advice. xilinx tailors its engineering services to the needs of its customers, ranging from hands-on training to full design creation and implementation. research and development our research and development (r&amp;d) activities are primarily directed toward the design of new ics, the development of new software design automation tools for hardware and embedded software, the design of logic ip, the adoption of advanced semiconductor manufacturing processes for ongoing cost reductions, performance and signal integrity improvements and lowering pld power consumption. as a result of our r&amp;d efforts, we have introduced a number of new products during the past several years including the virtex ultrascale, kintex ultrascale, virtex-7, kintex-7, artix-7 and zynq-7000 families. we have made enhancements to our ip core offerings and introduced vivado tools, our next generation software design suite. collaboration with our foundry suppliers in the development of new process technology has enabled us to be the first company in the pld industry to ship 45nm high-volume as well as 28nm and 20nm fpga devices. additionally, our investment in r&amp;d has allowed us to ship the industry's first 28nm with embedded arm technology as well as the industry's first 3d ic devices. our r&amp;d challenge is to continue to develop new products that create value-added solutions for customers. in fiscal 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , our r&amp;d expenses were $525.7 million , $492.4 million and $475.5 million , respectively. we believe technical leadership and innovation are essential to our future success and are committed to maintaining a significant level of r&amp;d investment. sales and distribution we sell our products to oems, emss and to electronic components distributors who resell these products to oems and emss. we use a dedicated global sales and marketing organization as well as independent sales representatives to generate sales. in general, we focus our direct demand creation efforts on a limited number of key accounts. distributors and independent sales representatives create demand within the balance of our customer base in defined territories. distributors also provide inventory, value-added services and logistics for a wide range of our oem customers. whether xilinx, the independent sales representative, or the distributor identifies the sales opportunity, a local distributor will process and fulfill the majority of all customer orders. in such situations, distributors are the sellers of the products and as such they bear all legal and financial risks generally related to the sale of commercial goods, including such risks as credit loss, inventory shrinkage, theft and foreign currency fluctuations, but excluding indemnity and warranty liability. in accordance with our distribution agreements and industry practice, we have granted our authorized distributors the contractual right to return certain amounts of unsold product on a periodic basis and also receive price adjustments for unsold product in the case of a change in list prices subsequent to the initial sale. revenue recognition on shipments to distributors worldwide is deferred until the products are sold to the distributors' end customers. avnet, inc. (avnet) distributes the substantial majority of our products worldwide. as of march 28, 2015 and march 29, 2014 , avnet accounted for 67% and 55% , respectively, of our total net accounts receivable. resale of product through avnet accounted for 43% , 46% and 46% of our worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. we also use other regional distributors throughout the world. we believe distributors provide a cost-effective means of reaching a broad range of customers while providing efficient logistics services. since plds are standard products, they do not carry many of the inventory risks posed by asics, and they simplify the requirements for distributor technical support. from time to time, we may add or terminate distributors in specific geographies, or move customers to a direct fulfillment model as we deem appropriate given our strategies, the level of distributor business activity and distributor performance and financial condition. see "note 2. summary of significant accounting policies and concentrations of risk" to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. "financial statements and supplementary data," for information about concentrations of credit risk and "note 16. segment information" for information about our revenues from external customers and domestic and international operations. no end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues in fiscal 2015 , 2014 or 2013 . backlog as of march 28, 2015 , our backlog from oem customers and backlog from end customers reported by our distributors scheduled for delivery within the next three months was $296.0 million, compared to $322.0 million as of march 29, 2014 . orders from end customers to our distributors are subject to changes in delivery schedules or to cancellation without significant penalty. as a 9 table of contents result, backlog from both oem customers and end customers reported by our distributors as of any particular period may not be a reliable indicator of revenue for any future period. wafer fabrication as a fabless semiconductor company, we do not manufacture wafers used for our ic products or proms. rather, we purchase our wafers from independent foundries including united microelectronics corporation (umc), tsmc, and samsung electronics co., ltd. (samsung). currently, umc manufactures the majority of our wafers and tsmc manufactures the wafers for our newest products. precise terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations with each wafer foundry. our strategy is to focus our resources on market development and creating new ics and software design tools rather than on wafer fabrication. we continuously evaluate opportunities to enhance foundry relationships and/or obtain additional capacity from our main suppliers as well as other suppliers of wafers manufactured with leading-edge process technologies, and we adjust loadings at particular foundries to meet our business needs. sort, assembly and test wafers are sorted by the foundry or independent sort subcontractors. sorted die are assembled by subcontractors. during the assembly process, the wafers are separated into individual die, which are then assembled into various package types. following assembly, the packaged units are generally tested by independent test subcontractors or by xilinx personnel. we purchase most of our assembly and some of our test services from siliconware precision industries ltd. in taiwan and amkor technology, inc. in korea and the philippines. we purchase most of our test services from king yuan electronics company in taiwan. quality certification xilinx has achieved and currently maintains quality management systems certification to tl9000/iso9001 for our facilities in san jose, california; longmont, colorado; singapore and hyderabad, india. in addition, xilinx achieved and currently maintains iso 14001 and ohsas 18001 environmental health and safety management system certifications in the san jose and singapore locations. patents and licenses while our various proprietary intellectual property rights are important to our success, we believe our business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. as of march 28, 2015 , we held over 3,300 issued united states (u.s.) patents, which vary in duration, and over 300 pending u.s. patent applications relating to our proprietary technology. we maintain an active program of filing for additional patents in the areas of, but not limited to, circuits, software, ic architecture, ip cores, system design, testing methodologies and other technologies relating to our products and business. we have licensed some parties to certain portions of our patent portfolio and obtained licenses to certain third-party patents as well. we have acquired various licenses from third parties to certain technologies that are implemented in ip cores or embedded in our plds, such as processors. those licenses support our continuing ability to make and sell these plds to our customers. we also have acquired various licenses to certain third-party proprietary software, open-source software and related technologies, such as compilers, for our design tools. continued use of such software and technology is important to the operation of the design tools upon which customers depend. we maintain the xilinx trade name and trademarks, including the following trademarks that are registered in the u.s. and other countries: xilinx, the xilinx logo, artix, ise, kintex, spartan, virtex, vivado and zynq. maintaining these trademarks, and the goodwill associated with them, is important to our business. we have also obtained the rights to use certain trademarks owned by consortiums and other trademark owners that are related to our products and business. we intend to continue to protect our ip rights (including, for example, patents, copyrights and trademarks) vigorously. we believe that failure to enforce our intellectual property rights or failure to protect our trade secrets effectively could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we incurred, and in the future we may continue to incur, litigation expenses to defend against claims of infringement and to enforce our intellectual property rights against third parties. however, any such litigation may or may not be successful. 10 table of contents corporate responsibility xilinx places a high level of importance on corporate responsibility. through senior-level sponsorship, regular environmental, health and safety assessments and company-wide performance targets, we strive to achieve a culture that emphasizes contribution to local and global communities through a number of key initiatives: company we strive to meet or exceed industry and regulatory standards for ethical business practices, product responsibility, and supplier management. all of xilinx's directors, officers and employees are required to comply not only with the letter of the laws, rules and regulations that govern the conduct of our business, but also with the spirit of those laws. environment we monitor regulatory and resource trends and are committed to setting focused targets for key resources and emissions. these targets address several parameters, including product design; chemical, energy, and water use; waste recycling; and emissions. as a company, we focus on reducing natural resource use, the solid and chemical waste of our operations and minimizing our overall environmental impact with regards to the communities around us and consistent with global climate change efforts. community we are committed to growing strategic relationships with a wide range of local organizations and programs that are designed to develop and strengthen communities located around the world. xilinx develops local community relationships at key sites through funding and involvement that encourages active participation, teamwork, and volunteerism. xilinx supports opportunities initiated by its employees and that involve participation and empowerment of its employees. we are committed to charitable giving programs that work toward systemic change and measurable results. workplace we provide a safe and healthy work environment where employee diversity is embraced and opportunities for training, growth, and advancement are strongly encouraged. the xilinx code of social responsibility outlines standards to ensure that working conditions at xilinx are safe and that workers are treated with respect, fairness and dignity. employees as of march 28, 2015 , we had 3,451 employees compared to 3,500 as of the end of the prior fiscal year. none of our employees are represented by a labor union. we have not experienced any work stoppages and believe we maintain good employee relations. executive officers of the registrant certain information regarding the executive officers of xilinx as of may 13, 2015 is set forth below: name age position moshe n. gavrielov 60 president and chief executive officer (ceo) steven l. glaser 53 senior vice president, corporate strategy and marketing scott r. hover-smoot 60 senior vice president, general counsel and secretary jon a. olson 61 executive vice president and chief financial officer (cfo) victor peng 55 executive vice president and general manager of products krishna rangasayee 46 senior vice president and general manager, global sales and markets vincent l. tong 53 senior vice president, global operations and quality there are no family relationships among the executive officers of the company or the board of directors. 11 table of contents moshe n. gavrielov joined the company in january 2008 as president and ceo and was appointed to the board of directors in february 2008. prior to joining the company, mr. gavrielov served at cadence design systems, inc., an electronic design automation company, as executive vice president and general manager of the verification division from april 2005 through november 2007. mr. gavrielov served as ceo of verisity ltd., an electronic design automation company, from march 1998 to april 2005 before its acquisition by cadence design systems, inc. prior to joining verisity, mr. gavrielov spent nearly 10 years at lsi corporation (formerly lsi logic corporation), a semiconductor manufacturer, in a variety of executive management positions, including executive vice president of the products group, senior vice president and general manager of international marketing and sales and senior vice president and general manager of lsi logic europe plc. additionally, mr. gavrielov held various engineering and engineering management positions at digital equipment corporation and national semiconductor corporation. steven l. glaser joined the company in january 2011 as corporate vice president, strategic planning. in april 2012, mr. glaser was promoted to his current position of senior vice president, corporate strategy and marketing. prior to joining the company, mr. glaser held various senior positions in cadence design systems between april 2005 and january 2011, including corporate vice president of strategic development and corporate vice president of marketing for the verification division. from june 2003 to april 2005, he served as senior vice president of marketing at verisity ltd. prior to that, mr. glaser held various senior business and technical positions at companies in the semiconductor and electronic design automation industries. scott r. hover-smoot joined the company in october 2007 and currently serves as senior vice president, general counsel and secretary, a position he has held since may 2014. from october 2007 to may 2014, mr. hover-smoot served as corporate vice president, general counsel and secretary. from november 2001 to october 2007, mr. hover-smoot served as regional counsel and director of legal operations with tsmc, an independent semiconductor foundry. he served as vice president and general counsel of california micro devices corporation, a provider of application-specific protection devices and display electronics devices from june 1994 to november 2001. prior to joining california micro devices corporation, mr. hover-smoot spent over 20 years working in law firms including berliner-cohen, flehr, hohbach, test, albritton &amp; herbert and lyon &amp; lyon. jon a. olson joined the company in june 2005 and currently serves as executive vice president and cfo, a position he has held since may 2014. from august 2006 to may 2014, mr. olson served as senior vice president, finance and cfo. from june 2005 to august 2006, he served as vice president, finance and cfo. prior to joining the company, mr. olson spent more than 25 years at intel corporation, a semiconductor chip maker, serving in a variety of positions, including vice president, finance and enterprise services, and director of finance. victor peng joined the company in april 2008 and currently serves as executive vice president and general manager of products, a position he has held since july 2014. from may 2013 through april 2014, mr. peng served as senior vice president and general manager of the programmable platforms group. from may 2012 through april 2013, he served as senior vice president of the programmable platforms group. from november 2008 through april 2012, he served as senior vice president of the programmable platforms development group. prior to joining the company, mr. peng served as corporate vice president, graphics products group at advanced micro devices (amd), a provider of processing solutions, from november 2005 to april 2008. prior to joining amd, mr. peng served in a variety of executive engineering positions at companies in the semiconductor and processor industries. krishna rangasayee joined the company in july 1999 and currently serves as senior vice president, and general manager, global sales and markets, a position he has held since january 2015. prior to that, he served in a number of key roles, including as senior director of vertical markets and partnerships from november 2005 through june 2008. he then served as the vice president of strategic planning from july 2008 through september 2010 and was promoted to the rank of corporate vice president for the same function. mr. rangasayee assumed the position of corporate vice president and general manager, communications business unit in october 2010. mr. rangasayee was promoted to the position of senior vice president, and general manager, communications business unit in april 2012. he became senior vice president, and general manager, market segments and communications business unit in october 2013. prior to joining xilinx, mr. rangasayee held various positions at altera, a provider of programmable logic solutions, and cypress semiconductor, a semiconductor company. vincent l. tong joined the company in may 1990 and currently serves as senior vice president, global operations and quality, a position he has held since january 2015, and executive leader, asia pacific since october 2011. mr. tong previously served as senior vice president, worldwide quality and new product introductions from june 2008 to january 2015. he has also served as vice president, worldwide quality and reliability from august 2006 to june 2008 and prior to that as vice president of product technology from may 2001 to july 2006. prior to joining the company, mr. tong served in a variety of engineering and management positions at monolithic memories, a producer of logic devices, and amd. he holds seven u.s. patents. 12 table of contents additional information we make available, via a link through our investor relations website located at www.investor.xilinx.com, access to our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the u.s. securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (exchange act) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission (sec). all such filings on our investor relations website are available free of charge. printed copies of these documents are also available to stockholders without charge, upon written request directed to xilinx, inc., attn: investor relations, 2100 logic drive, san jose, ca 95124. further, a copy of this annual report on form 10-k is located at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room can be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings at http://www.sec.gov. the content on any website referred to in this filing is not incorporated by reference into this filing unless expressly noted otherwise. additional information required by this item 1 is incorporated by reference to the section captioned "net revenues - net revenues by geography" in item 7. "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and to "note 16. segment information" to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. "financial statements and supplementary data." this annual report includes trademarks and service marks of xilinx and other companies that are unregistered and registered in the u.s. and other countries. item 1a. risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks to the company. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company, or that the company's management currently deems immaterial, also may impair its business operations. if any of the risks described below were to occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. our success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products and failure to do so would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. our success depends in large part on our ability to develop and introduce new products that address customer requirements and compete effectively on the basis of price, density, functionality, power consumption and performance. the success of new product introductions is dependent upon several factors, including: timely completion of new product designs; ability to generate new design opportunities and design wins; availability of specialized field application engineering resources supporting demand creation and customer adoption of new products; ability to utilize advanced manufacturing process technologies on circuit geometries of 28nm and smaller; achieving acceptable yields; ability to obtain adequate production capacity from our wafer foundries and assembly and test subcontractors; ability to obtain advanced packaging; availability of supporting software design tools; utilization of predefined ip logic; customer acceptance of advanced features in our new products; and market acceptance of our customers' products. our product development efforts may not be successful, our new products may not achieve industry acceptance and we may not achieve the necessary volume of production that would lead to further per unit cost reductions. revenues relating to our mature products are expected to decline in the future, which is normal for our product life cycles. as a result, we may be increasingly dependent on revenues derived from design wins for our newer products as well as anticipated cost reductions in the manufacture of our current products. we rely primarily on obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture of existing products, and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and other price/performance factors that enable us to increase revenues while maintaining consistent margins. to the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner, or to the extent that our products do not achieve market acceptance at prices with higher margins, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 13 table of contents we rely on independent foundries for the manufacture of all of our products and a manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could adversely affect our operations. most of our wafers are manufactured in taiwan by umc and by tsmc for our newest products. in addition, we also have wafers manufactured in south korea by samsung electronics co., ltd. terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations between xilinx and these wafer foundries, which usually result in short-term agreements that do not provide for long-term supply or allocation commitments. we are dependent on these foundries to supply the substantial majority of our wafers. we rely on umc, tsmc and our other foundries to produce wafers with competitive performance attributes. therefore, the foundries, particularly tsmc who manufactures our newest products, must be able to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies and increased wafer sizes, produce wafers at acceptable yields and deliver them in a timely manner. furthermore, we cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our wafers will offer us competitive pricing terms or other commercial terms important to our business. we cannot guarantee that our foundries will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies or difficulties due to limitations of new and existing process technologies. furthermore, we cannot guarantee the foundries will be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products or that they will continue to manufacture a product for the full life of the product. in addition, weak economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of the foundries and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us. for example, we may experience supply shortages due to the difficulties foundries may encounter if they must rapidly increase their production capacities from low utilization levels to high utilization levels because of an unexpected increase in demand. we may also experience supply shortages due to very strong demand for our products and a surge in demand for semiconductors in general, which may lead to tightening of foundry capacity across the industry. the insolvency of a foundry or any significant manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity would disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. general economic conditions and any related deterioration in the global business environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. during the past five years, global consumer confidence eroded amidst concerns over declining asset values, inflation, volatility in energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, rising unemployment, and the stability and solvency of financial institutions, financial markets, businesses and sovereign nations, among other concerns. these concerns slowed global economic growth and resulted in recessions in numerous countries, including many of those in north america, europe and asia. the financial condition of certain sovereign nations, particularly in europe, is of continuing concern as the sovereign debt crisis remains unresolved. these weak economic conditions resulted in reduced customer demand and had a negative impact on our results of operations for the second and third quarter of fiscal 2012 and the third quarter of fiscal 2013. if weak economic conditions return, there may be a number of negative effects on our business, including customers or potential customers reducing or delaying orders, the insolvency of key suppliers, potentially causing production delays, the inability of customers to obtain credit, and the insolvency of one or more customers. any of these effects could impact our ability to effectively manage inventory levels and collect receivables and ultimately decrease our net revenues and profitability. the semiconductor industry is characterized by cyclical market patterns and a significant industry downturn could adversely affect our operating results. the semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and our financial performance has been affected by downturns in the industry. down cycles are generally characterized by price erosion and weaker demand for our products. weaker demand for our products resulting from economic conditions in the end markets we serve and reduced capital spending by our customers can result, and in the past has resulted, in excess and obsolete inventories and corresponding inventory write-downs. we attempt to identify changes in market conditions as soon as possible; however, the dynamics of the market in which we operate make prediction of and timely reaction to such events difficult. due to these and other factors, our past results are not reliable predictors of our future results. the nature of our business makes our revenues difficult to predict which could have an adverse impact on our business. in addition to the challenging market conditions we may face, we have limited visibility into the demand for our products, particularly new products, because demand for our products depends upon our products being designed into our end customers' products and those products achieving market acceptance. due to the complexity of our customers' designs, the design to volume production process for our customers requires a substantial amount of time, frequently longer than a year. in addition to this, other factors may affect our end customers' demand for our products, including, but not limited to, end customer program delays and the ability of end customers to secure other complimentary products. we also are dependent upon "turns," orders received and turned for shipment in the same quarter. these factors make it difficult for us to forecast future sales and project quarterly revenues. the difficulty in forecasting future sales impairs our ability to project our inventory requirements, which could result, and in the past has resulted, in inventory write-downs or failure to meet customer product demands in a timely manner. in addition, difficulty in forecasting revenues compromises our ability to provide forward-looking revenue and earnings guidance. 14 table of contents if we are not able to compete successfully in our industry, our financial results and future prospects will be adversely affected. our plds compete in the ic industry, an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion. we expect increased competition from our primary pld competitors, altera, lattice and microsemi, and from new market entrants. in addition, competition from the asic market and from the assp market continues. we believe that important competitive factors in the logic ic industry include: product pricing; time-to-market; product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density; field upgradeability; adaptability of products to specific applications; ease of use and functionality of software design tools; availability and functionality of predefined ip logic; inventory and supply chain management; access to leading-edge process technology and assembly capacity; ability to provide timely customer service and support; and access to advanced packaging technology. our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high-volume, low-cost and low-power applications as well as high-performance, high-density applications. however, we may not be successful in executing this strategy. in addition, we anticipate continued pressure from our customers to reduce prices, which may outpace our ability to lower the cost for established products. other competitors include manufacturers of: high-density programmable logic products characterized by fpga type architectures; high-volume and low-cost fpgas as programmable replacements for asics and assps; asics and assps with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; high-speed, low-density complex programmable logic devices; high-performance digital signal processing devices; products with embedded processors; products with embedded multi-gigabit transceivers; and other new or emerging programmable logic products. several companies have introduced products that compete with ours or have announced their intention to sell pld products. to the extent that our efforts to compete are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the benefits of programmable logic have attracted a number of competitors to this segment. we recognize that different applications require different programmable technologies, and we are developing architectures, processes and products to meet these varying customer needs. recognizing the increasing importance of standard software solutions, we have developed common software design tools that support the full range of our ic products. we believe that automation and ease of design are significant competitive factors in this segment. we could also face competition from our licensees. in the past we have granted limited rights to other companies with respect to certain aspects of our older technology, and we may do so in the future. granting such rights may enable these companies to manufacture and market products that may be competitive with some of our older products. increased costs of wafers and materials, or shortages in wafers and materials, could adversely impact our gross margins and lead to reduced revenues. if greater demand for wafers is not offset by an increase in foundry capacity, market demand for wafers or production and assembly materials increases, or if a supplier of our wafers or other materials ceases or suspends operations, our supply of wafers and other materials could become limited. such shortages raise the likelihood of potential wafer price increases, wafer shortages or shortages in materials at production and test facilities, resulting in potential inability to address customer product demands in a timely manner. for example, when certain suppliers were forced to temporarily halt production as the result of a natural disaster, this resulted in a tightening of supply for those materials. such shortages of wafers and materials as well as increases in wafer or materials prices could adversely affect our gross margins and would adversely affect our ability to meet customer demands and lead to reduced revenue. we depend on distributors, primarily avnet, to generate a majority of our sales and complete order fulfillment. 15 table of contents resale of product through avnet accounted for 43% of our worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2015 and as of march 28, 2015 , avnet accounted for 67% of our total net accounts receivable. any adverse change to our relationship with avnet or our remaining distributors could have a material impact on our business. furthermore, if a key distributor materially defaults on a contract or otherwise fails to perform, our business and financial results would suffer. in addition, we are subject to concentrations of credit risk in our trade accounts receivable, which includes accounts of our distributors. a significant reduction of effort by a distributor to sell our products or a material change in our relationship with one or more distributors may reduce our access to certain end customers and adversely affect our ability to sell our products. in addition, the financial health of our distributors and our continuing relationships with them are important to our success. unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health of some of these distributors, particularly our smaller distributors. this could result in the insolvency of certain distributors, the inability of distributors to obtain credit to finance the purchase of our products, or cause distributors to delay payment of their obligations to us and increase our credit risk exposure. our business could be harmed if the financial health of these distributors impairs their performance and we are unable to secure alternate distributors. we are dependent on independent subcontractors for most of our assembly and test services, and unavailability or disruption of these services could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. we are dependent on subcontractors to provide semiconductor assembly, substrate, test and shipment services. any prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, any disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, delays in stabilizing manufacturing processes and ramping up volume for new products, transitions to new service providers or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands. in addition, unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of these subcontractors and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us. these factors would result in reduced net revenues and could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. a number of factors, including our inventory strategy, can impact our gross margins. a number of factors, including yield, wafer pricing, product mix, market acceptance of our new products, competitive pricing dynamics, geographic and/or market segment pricing strategies can cause our gross margins to fluctuate. in addition, forecasting our gross margins is difficult because a significant portion of our business is based on turns within the same quarter. our current inventory levels are higher than historical norms due to weaker than anticipated sales and a planned increase in safety stock across newer technologies in anticipation of future revenue growth. in the event demand does not materialize, we may be subject to incremental obsolescence costs. in addition, future product cost reductions could have an increased impact on our inventory valuation, which would then impact our operating results. reductions in the average selling prices of our products could have a negative impact on our gross margins. the average selling prices of our products generally decline as the products mature. we seek to offset the decrease in selling prices through yield improvement, manufacturing cost reductions and increased unit sales. we also continue to develop higher value products or product features that increase, or slow the decline of, the average selling price of our products. however, there is no guarantee that our ongoing efforts will be successful or that they will keep pace with the decline in selling prices of our products, which could ultimately lead to a decline in revenues and have a negative effect on our gross margins. because of our international business and operations, we are vulnerable to the economic conditions of the countries in which we operate and currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. in addition to our u.s. operations, we also have significant international operations, including foreign sales offices to support our international customers and distributors, our regional headquarters in ireland and singapore and an r&amp;d site in india. our international operations have grown because we have established certain operations and administrative functions outside the u.s. sales and operations outside of the u.s. subject us to the risks associated with conducting business in foreign economic and regulatory environments. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in countries in which we do significant business or by changes in foreign currency exchange rates affecting those countries. we derive over one-half of our revenues from international sales, primarily in the asia pacific region, europe and japan. past economic weaknesses in these markets adversely affected revenues. sales to all direct oems and distributors are denominated in u.s. dollars. while the recent movements of the euro and yen exchange rates against the u.s. dollar had no material impact to our business, increased volatility could impact our european and japanese customers. currency instability and volatility and disruptions in the credit and capital markets may increase credit risks for some of our customers and may impair our customers' ability to repay existing obligations. increased currency volatility could also positively or negatively impact our foreign-currency-denominated costs, assets and liabilities. in addition, any devaluation of the u.s. dollar relative to other foreign currencies may increase the operating expenses of our foreign subsidiaries adversely affecting our results of operations. furthermore, because we 16 table of contents are increasingly dependent on the global economy, instability in worldwide economic environments occasioned, for example, directly or indirectly by political instability, terrorist activity, u.s. or other military actions, and international sanctions or other diplomatic actions (potentially including sanctions adopted or under consideration by the u.s. or european union with respect to russia or russian individuals or businesses), could adversely impact economic activity and lead to a contraction of capital spending by our customers generally or in specific regions. any or all of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. we are subject to the risks associated with conducting business operations outside of the u.s. which could adversely affect our business. in addition to international sales and support operations and development activities, we purchase our wafers from foreign foundries, have our commercial products assembled, packaged and tested by subcontractors located outside the u.s. and utilize third party warehouse operators to store and manage inventory levels for certain of our products. all of these activities are subject to the uncertainties associated with international business operations, including global laws and regulations, trade barriers, economic sanctions, tax regulations, import and export regulations, duties and tariffs and other trade restrictions, changes in trade policies, anti-corruption laws, foreign governmental regulations, potential vulnerability of and reduced protection for ip, longer receivable collection periods and disruptions or delays in production or shipments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. additional factors that could adversely affect us due to our international operations include rising oil prices and increased costs of natural resources. moreover, our financial condition and results of operations could be affected in the event of political conflicts or economic crises in countries where our main wafer providers, warehouses, end customers and contract manufacturers who provide assembly and test services worldwide, are located. adverse change to the circumstances or conditions of our international business operations could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and changes in credit rating and in the market values of our portfolio investments which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. our cash, short-term and long-term investments represent significant assets that may be subject to fluctuating or even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements, changes in credit rating and financial market conditions. global credit market disruptions and economic slowdown and uncertainty have in the past negatively impacted the values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities. the global credit and capital markets may again experience significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system, uncertainty related to global economic conditions and concerns regarding sovereign financial stability. therefore, there is a risk that we may incur other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments should credit market conditions deteriorate or the underlying assets fail to perform as anticipated. our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair values of our debt securities is judged to be other than temporary. furthermore, we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or financial market conditions. our failure to protect and defend our ip could impair our ability to compete effectively. we rely upon patent, copyright, trade secret, mask work and trademark laws to protect our ip. we cannot provide assurance that such ip rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, violated, circumvented or challenged. from time to time, third parties, including our competitors, have asserted against us patent, copyright and other ip rights to technologies that are important to us. third parties may attempt to misappropriate our ip through electronic or other means or assert infringement claims against our indemnities or us in the future. such assertions by third parties may result in costly litigation, indemnity claims or other legal actions, and we may not prevail in such matters or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. this could result in the loss of our ability to import and sell our products or require us to pay costly royalties to third parties in connection with sales of our products. any infringement claim, indemnification claim, or impairment or loss of use of our ip could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our ability to design and introduce new products in a timely manner is dependent upon third-party ip. in the design and development of new products and product enhancements, we rely on third-party intellectual property such as software development tools and hardware testing tools. furthermore, certain product features may rely on intellectual property acquired from third parties. the design requirements necessary to meet future consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from semiconductor products may exceed the capabilities of the third-party intellectual property or development tools that are available to us. if the third-party intellectual property that we use becomes unavailable or fails to produce designs that meet consumer demands, our business could be adversely affected. we rely on information technology (it) systems, and failure of these systems to function properly or unauthorized access to our systems could result in business disruption. 17 table of contents we rely in part on various it systems to manage our operations, including financial reporting, and we regularly evaluate these systems and make changes to improve them as necessary. consequently, we periodically implement new, or upgrade or enhance existing, operational and it systems, procedures and controls. for example, in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 we upgraded the it systems we use to manage our operations and record and report financial information, and in the past we simplified our supply chain and were required to make certain changes to our it systems. any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. these systems are also subject to power and telecommunication outages or other general system failures. failure of our it systems or difficulties in managing them could result in business disruption. we also may be subject to unauthorized access to our it systems through a security breach or cyber attack. we experience cyber attacks of varying degrees on an ongoing basis. in the past there have been attempts by third parties to penetrate and/or infect our network and systems with malicious software, in an effort to gain access to our network and systems. third parties may continue to attempt to fraudulently induce employees, users, or customers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our networks systems. we seek to detect and investigate any security incidents and prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to and sabotage our systems change frequently, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate protections. our business could be significantly harmed and we could be subject to third party claims in the event of such a security breach. earthquakes and other natural disasters could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the independent foundries, upon which we rely to manufacture our products, as well as our california and singapore facilities, are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. umc's and tsmc's foundries in taiwan and our assembly and test partners in other regions as well as many of our operations in california are centered in areas that have been seismically active in the recent past and some areas have been affected by other natural disasters such as typhoons. any catastrophic event in these locations will disrupt our operations, including our manufacturing activities and our insurance may not cover losses resulting from such disruptions of our operations. this type of disruption could result in our inability to manufacture or ship products, thereby materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. for example, as a result of the march 2011 earthquake in japan, production at the seiko foundry at sakata was halted temporarily, impacting production of some of our older devices. in addition, suppliers of wafers and substrates were forced to halt production temporarily. disruption of operations at these foundries for any reason, including other natural disasters such as typhoons, tsunamis, volcano eruptions, fires or floods, as well as disruptions in access to adequate supplies of electricity, natural gas or water could cause delays in shipments of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. furthermore, natural disasters can also indirectly impact us. for example, our customers' supply of other complimentary products may be disrupted by a natural disaster and may cause them to delay orders of our products. if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls, our stock price could be adversely affected. we are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (the act). our controls necessary for continued compliance with the act may not operate effectively at all times and may result in a material weakness disclosure. the identification of material weaknesses in internal control, if any, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements and could cause investors to lose confidence and our stock price to drop. we compete with others to attract and retain key personnel, and any loss of, or inability to attract, such personnel would harm us. we depend on the efforts and abilities of certain key members of management and other technical personnel. our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to retain such personnel and attract and retain other highly qualified personnel, particularly product engineers. competition for such personnel is intense and we may not be successful in hiring or retaining new or existing qualified personnel. from time to time we have effected restructurings which eliminate a number of positions. even if such personnel are not directly affected by the restructuring effort, such terminations can have a negative impact on morale and our ability to attract and hire new qualified personnel in the future. if we lose existing qualified personnel or are unable to hire new qualified personnel, as needed, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. unfavorable results of legal proceedings could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. from time to time we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business. the amount of damages alleged in certain legal claims may be significant. for example, in december 2013, we entered into a settlement and license agreement with pact xpp technologies, ag ( pact) in which the parties agreed to dismiss with prejudice all outstanding patent litigation among us, avnet and pact. as part of the settlement, we agreed to pay pact a lump sum of $33.5 million. certain other claims involving the company are not yet resolved, including those that are discussed under item 3. "legal proceedings," included in part i of this form 10-k, and additional claims may arise in the future. results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. regardless of its merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations 18 table of contents and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention and we may enter into material settlements to avoid these risks. should we fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against us in the same reporting period, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that would materially and adversely affect a portion of our business and might materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. our products could have defects which could result in reduced revenues and claims against us. we develop complex and evolving products that include both hardware and software. despite our testing efforts and those of our subcontractors, defects may be found in existing or new products. these defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair or replacement costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with customers. subject to certain terms and conditions, we have agreed to compensate certain customers for limited specified costs they actually incur in the event our hardware products experience epidemic failure. as a result, epidemic failure and other performance problems could result in claims against us, the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and would likely harm our business. our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. in addition, we could be subject to product liability claims. a product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly to defend. product liability risks are particularly significant with respect to aerospace, automotive and medical applications because of the risk of serious harm to users of these products. any product liability claim, whether or not determined in our favor, could result in significant expense, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and harm our business. in preparing our financial statements, we make good faith estimates and judgments that may change or turn out to be erroneous. in preparing our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s., we must make estimates and judgments in applying our most critical accounting policies. those estimates and judgments have a significant impact on the results we report in our consolidated financial statements. the most difficult estimates and subjective judgments that we make concern valuation of marketable and non-marketable securities, revenue recognition, inventories, long-lived assets including acquisition-related intangibles, goodwill, taxes and stock-based compensation. we base our estimates on historical experience, input from outside experts and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. we also have other key accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult, but which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial reporting. actual results may differ materially from these estimates. if these estimates or their related assumptions change, our operating results for the periods in which we revise our estimates or assumptions could be adversely and perhaps materially affected. our failure to comply with the requirements of the export administration regulations (ear) and the international traffic and arms regulations (itar) could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. xilinx fpgas and related technologies are subject to ear, which are administered by the u.s. department of commerce. in addition, xilinx may, from time to time, receive technical data from third parties that is subject to the itar, which are administered by the u.s. department of state. ear and itar govern the export and re-export of these fpgas, the transfer of related technologies, whether in the u.s. or abroad, and the provision of services. we are required to maintain an internal compliance program and security infrastructure to meet ear and itar requirements. an inability to obtain the required export licenses, or to predict when they will be granted, increases the difficulties of forecasting shipments. in addition, security or compliance program failures that could result in penalties or a loss of export privileges, as well as stringent licensing restrictions that may make our products less attractive to overseas customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. our inability to effectively control the sale of our products on the gray market could have a material adverse effect on us. we market and sell our products directly to oems and through authorized third-party distributors which helps to ensure that products delivered to our customers are authentic and properly handled. from time to time, customers may purchase products bearing our name from the unauthorized "gray market." these parts may be counterfeit, salvaged or re-marked parts, or parts that have been altered, mishandled, or damaged. gray market products result in shadow inventory that is not visible to us, thus making it difficult to forecast supply or demand. also, when gray market products enter the market, we and our authorized distributors may compete with brokers of these discounted products, which can adversely affect demand for our products and negatively impact our margins. in addition, our reputation with customers may be negatively impacted when gray market products bearing our name fail or are found to be substandard. 19 table of contents the conflict minerals provisions of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act could result in additional costs and liabilities. in accordance with the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, the sec established disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use "conflict" minerals mined from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries in their products, whether or not these products are manufactured by third parties. these requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of our semiconductor products. there will also be costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, including for due diligence in regard to the sources of any conflict minerals used in our products, in addition to the cost of remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. we may face reputational challenges if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all minerals used in our products through the due diligence process we implement. moreover, we may encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products are certified as conflict free. exposure to greater than anticipated income tax liabilities, changes in tax rules and regulations, changes in interpretation of tax rules and regulations, or unfavorable assessments from tax audits could affect our effective tax rates, financial condition and results of operations. we are a u.s.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple u.s. and foreign tax jurisdictions. our income tax obligations could be affected by many factors, including but not limited to changes to our corporate operating structure, intercompany arrangements and tax planning strategies. a significant portion of our earnings are earned by our subsidiaries outside the u.s. in addition to providing for u.s. income taxes on earnings from the u.s., we provide for u.s. income taxes on the earnings of foreign subsidiaries unless the subsidiaries' earnings are considered permanently reinvested outside the u.s. while we do not anticipate changing our intention regarding permanently reinvested earnings, if certain foreign earnings previously treated as permanently reinvested are repatriated, the related u.s. tax on such repatriated earnings could negatively impact our effective tax rates, financial condition and results of operations. our income tax expense is computed based on tax rates at the time of the respective financial period. our future effective tax rates, financial condition and results from operations could be unfavorably affected by changes in the tax rates in jurisdictions where our income is earned, by changes in the tax rules and regulations or the interpretation of tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business, by lapses of the availability (or by the reintroduction, when such credit has lapsed) of the u.s. research and development tax credit, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets. in addition, we are subject to examinations of our income tax returns by the u.s. internal revenue service and other domestic and foreign tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that may result from the current examinations. there can be no assurance that the final determination of any of these examinations will not have an adverse effect on our effective tax rates, financial position and results of operations. the conditional conversion features of our 2.625% senior convertible debentures due june 15, 2017 (2017 convertible notes) were triggered and holders of the 2017 convertible notes may elect to convert such 2017 convertible notes which could have a material effect on our liquidity. the 2017 convertible notes have conditional conversion features which were triggered in fiscal 2013. holders of the 2017 convertible notes are entitled to convert the 2017 convertible notes at any time during specified periods at their option. as a result of this, we were required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the 2017 convertible notes as a current rather than long-term liability. in addition, we were required to increase the number of shares used in our net income per share calculations to reflect the potentially dilutive impact of the conversion. if one or more holders elect to convert their 2017 convertible notes, we would be required to settle any converted principal through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. considerable amounts of our common shares are available for issuance under our equity incentive plans and 2017 convertible notes, and significant issuances in the future may adversely impact the market price of our common shares. as of march 28, 2015 we had 2.00 billion authorized common shares, of which 258.3 million shares were outstanding. in addition, 36.0 million common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to our equity incentive plans and employee stock purchase plan (espp), 20.0 million common shares were reserved for issuance upon conversion or repurchase of the 2017 convertible notes and 20.2 million common shares were reserved for issuance upon exercise of warrants. the availability of substantial amounts of our common shares resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity incentive plans or the conversion or repurchase of convertible debentures using common shares, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. 20 table of contents we have indebtedness that could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. the aggregate amount of our consolidated indebtedness as of march 28, 2015 was $1.60 billion (principal amount), which consists of $500.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 2.125% notes due 2019 (2019 notes), $500.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 3.000% notes due 2021 (2021 notes) and $600.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 2017 convertible notes. we also may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our indebtedness may: make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including making scheduled principal and interest payments on the debentures and our other indebtedness; limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; require us to use a portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments; limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions; and require us to repatriate off-shore cash to the u.s. at unfavorable tax rates. our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. the agreements governing the 2019 notes and 2021 notes contain covenants that may adversely affect our ability to operate our business. the indentures governing the 2019 notes and 2021 notes contain various covenants limiting our and our subsidiaries' ability to, among other things: create certain liens on principal property or the capital stock of certain subsidiaries; enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions with respect to principal property; consolidate or merge with, or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all our assets, taken as a whole, to, another person. a failure to comply with these covenants and other provisions in these indentures could result in events of default under the indentures, which could permit acceleration of the 2019 notes and the 2021 notes. any required repayment as a result of such acceleration could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. the call options and warrant transactions related to our 2017 convertible notes may affect the value of the debentures and our common stock. to hedge against potential dilution upon conversion of the 2017 convertible notes, we purchased call options on our common stock from the hedge counterparties. we also sold warrants to the hedge counterparties, which could separately have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants of $41.99 per share. as the hedge counterparties and their respective affiliates modify hedge positions, they may enter or unwind various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchase or sell our common stock in secondary market transactions. this activity also could affect the market price of our common stock and/or debentures, which could affect the ability of the holders of the debentures to convert and the number of shares and value of the consideration that will be received by the holders of the debentures upon conversion. acquisitions and strategic investments present risks, and we may not realize the goals that were contemplated at the time of a transaction. in the past, we have acquired technology companies whose products complement our products. we also have made a number of strategic investments in other technology companies. we may make similar acquisitions and strategic investments in the future. acquisitions and strategic investments present risks, including: our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management's attention may be diverted by investment, acquisition, transition or integration activities; an acquisition or strategic investment may not further our business strategy as we expected, and we may not integrate an acquired company or technology as successfully as we expected; our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by claims or liabilities that we assume from an acquired company or technology or that are otherwise related to an acquisition; 21 table of contents we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines; we may have higher than anticipated costs in continuing support and development of acquired products, and in general and administrative functions that support such products; our strategic investments may not perform as expected; and we may experience unexpected changes in how we are required to account for our acquisitions and strategic investments pursuant to u.s. gaap. the occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions or strategic investments. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 38 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our investment portfolio, which consists of fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $3.24 billion as of march 28, 2015 . our primary aim with our investment portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal and meeting liquidity needs. our investment portfolio includes municipal bonds, mortgage-backed securities, financial institution securities, non-financial institution securities, student loan auction rate securities, u.s. and foreign government and agency securities, asset-backed securities, bank loans and debt mutual funds. in accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer based upon the issuer's credit rating. these securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. a hypothetical 100 basis-point (one percentage point) increase or decrease in interest rates compared to rates at march 28, 2015 and march 29, 2014 would have affected the fair value of our investment portfolio by approximately $44.0 million and $53.0 million, respectively. credit market risk the global credit markets may experience adverse conditions that negatively impact the values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities. the global credit and capital markets may experience significant volatility and disruption due to 38 table of contents instability in the global financial system, uncertainty related to global economic conditions and concerns regarding sovereign financial stability. therefore, there is a risk that we may incur other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments should credit market conditions deteriorate. see "note 4. financial instruments" to our consolidated financial statements, included inrisk factors 14 "risk factors." often, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words, such as "may," "will," "could," "should," "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," "continue," "plan," "intend," "project" and other similar terminology, or the negative of such terms. we disclaim any responsibility to update or revise any forward-looking statement provided in this annual report or in any of our other communications for any reason. item 1. business xilinx, inc. (xilinx, the company or we) designs and develops programmable devices and associated technologies, including: integrated circuits (ics) in the form of programmable logic devices (plds), including programmable system on chips (socs) and three-dimensional ics (3d ics); software design tools to program the plds; targeted reference designs; printed circuit boards; and intellectual property (ip), which consists of xilinx and various third-party verification and ip cores. in addition to its programmable platforms, xilinx provides design services, customer training, field engineering and technical support. our plds include field programmable gate arrays (fpgas), complex programmable logic devices (cplds) that our customers program to perform desired logic functions, and programmable socs, which combine industry standard arm processor-based systems with programmable logic in a single device. we also design and develop 3d ics, which consist of a combination of fpgas, transceivers and a wide memory interface in a single package to exceed the capacity and bandwidth of monolithic devices. our product portfolio is designed to provide high integration and quick time-to-market for electronic equipment manufacturers in end markets such as wireline and wireless communications, industrial, scientific and medical, aerospace and defense, audio, video and broadcast, consumer, automotive and test and measurement. we sell our products and services through independent domestic and foreign distributors and through direct sales to original equipment manufacturers (oems) and electronic manufacturing service providers (ems). sales are generated by these independent distributors, independent sales representative or our direct sales organization. xilinx was founded and incorporated in california in february 1984. in april 1990, the company was reincorporated in delaware. our corporate facilities and executive offices are located at 2100 logic drive, san jose, california 95124, and our website address is www.xilinx.com. industry overview there are three principal types of ics used in most digital electronic systems: processors, which generally are utilized for control and computing tasks; memory devices, which are used for storing program instructions and data; and logic devices, which generally are used to manage the interchange and manipulation of digital signals within a system. xilinx designs and develops plds, a type of logic device. alternatives to plds may include application specific integrated circuits (asics) and application specific standard products (assps). plds, asics and assps may be utilized in many of the same types of electronic systems. however, differences in unit pricing, development cost, product performance, reliability, power consumption, capacity, features and functionality, ease of use and time-to-market determine which devices are best-suited for specific applications. 3 table of contents plds have key competitive advantages over asics and assps, including: faster time-to-market and increased design flexibility. both of these advantages are enabled by xilinx desktop software which allows users to implement and revise their designs quickly. in contrast, asics and assps require significant development time and offer limited, if any, flexibility to make design changes. plds are standard components. this means that the same device can be sold to many different users for a myriad of applications. in sharp contrast, asics and assps are customized for an individual user or a specific application. plds are generally disadvantaged in terms of relative device size when compared to chips that are designed to perform a fixed function in a single or small set of applications. asics and assps tend to be smaller than plds performing the same fixed function, resulting in a lower unit cost. however, there is a high fixed cost associated with asic and assp development that is not applicable to pld customers. this fixed cost of asic and assp development is expected to significantly increase on next generation technology nodes. from a total cost of development perspective, asics and assps have generally been more cost effective when used in high-volume production, and plds have generally been more cost effective when used in low- to mid-volume production. however, we expect plds to be able to address higher volume applications and gain market share from asic and assp suppliers as the fixed cost of asic and assp development increases on next generation technology nodes. an overview of typical pld end market applications for our products is shown in the following table: end markets sub-segments applications communications &amp; data center wireless 3g/4g/5g base stations wireless backhaul wireline enterprise routers and switches metro optical networks data centers high performance computing industrial, aerospace &amp; defense industrial, scientific and medical factory automation medical imaging machine vision augmented reality test and measurement semiconductor test and measurement equipment asic emulation and prototyping aerospace and defense secure communications avionics electronic warfare and surveillance broadcast, consumer &amp; consumer digital televisions automotive multifunction printers automotive infotainment systems driver information systems driver assistance systems audio, video and broadcast post production equipment broadcast cameras 4 table of contents strategy and competition our strategy for expansion is the displacement of asics and assps in the development of next generation electronic systems. the costs and risks associated with application-specific devices can only be justified for high-volume or highly-specialized commodity products. programmable platforms, alternatively, are becoming critical for our customers to meet increasingly stringent product requirements - cost, power, performance and density - in a business environment characterized by increased complexity, shrinking market windows, rapidly changing market demands, capped engineering budgets, escalating asic and assp engineering costs and increased economic and development risk. with every new generation of fpgas, our strategy is to increase the performance, density and system-level functionality and integration, while driving down cost and power consumption at each manufacturing process node. this enables us to provide simpler, smarter programmable platforms and design methodologies allowing our customers to focus on innovation and differentiation of their products. our plds compete in the logic ic industry, an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion. we expect continued competition from our primary pld competitors such as intel corporation (intel), which acquired altera corporation (altera), lattice semiconductor corporation (lattice) and microsemi corporation (microsemi), and from assp vendors such as broadcom corporation (broadcom), marvell technology group, ltd. (marvell) and texas instruments incorporated (texas instruments), as well as from new companies that may enter the traditional programmable logic market segment. in addition, we expect continued competition from the asic market, which has been ongoing since the inception of fpgas. other competitors include manufacturers of: high-density programmable logic products characterized by fpga-type architectures; high-volume and low-cost fpgas as programmable replacements for asics and assps; asics and assps with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; high-speed, low-density cplds; high-performance digital signal processing (dsp) devices; products with embedded processors; products with embedded multi-gigabit transceivers; and other new or emerging programmable logic products. we believe that important competitive factors in the logic ic industry include: product pricing; time-to-market; product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density; field upgradability; adaptability of products to specific applications; ease of use and functionality of software design tools; availability and functionality of predefined ip; inventory and supply chain management; access to leading-edge process technology and assembly capacity; ability to provide timely customer service and support; and access to advanced packaging technology. silicon product overview a brief overview of the silicon product offerings is listed in the table below. these products comprise the majority of our revenues. additionally, some of our more mature product families have been excluded from the table, although they continue to generate revenues. we operate and track our results in one operating segment for financial reporting purposes. 5 table of contents product families plds date introduced virtex ultrascale+ january 2016 kintex ultrascale+ december 2015 zynq ultrascale+ september 2015 virtex ultrascale may 2014 kintex ultrascale november 2013 virtex-7 june 2010 kintex-7 june 2010 artix-7 june 2010 zynq-7000 march 2011 virtex-6 february 2009 spartan-6 february 2009 virtex-5 may 2006 see information under the caption "results of operations - net revenues" in item 7. "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" for information about our revenues from our product families. see also "note 16. segment information" to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8. "financial information and supplementary data" for information regarding segments. ultrascale+ product families the ultrascale+ portfolio consists of three product families, and is manufactured using taiwan semiconductor manufacturing company limited's (tsmc) 16 nanometer (nm) finfet+ process. the ultrascale+ portfolio includes fpgas, 3d ic technology, and multi- processing system on a chip (mpsocs) products, combining new memory, 3d on 3d and multiprocessing soc technologies. the zynq ultrascale+ product family represents the company's second generation programmable soc family. this new family combines seven user programmable processors including a 64-bit quad-core arm cortex a53 application processing unit, a 32-bit dual-core arm cortex r5 real time processing unit, and an arm mali 400 graphics processing unit. these devices enable the development of next generation embedded vision, automotive, industrial internet of things (iot) and communication systems by providing significant increases in system level performance/watt and any-to-any connectivity with the security and safety required for next generation systems. kintex ultrascale+ devices provide a strong price/performance watt balance in a finfet node, delivering a very cost effective solution for high-end capabilities including transceiver and memory interface line rates, as well as 100g connectivity cores. these devices are ideal for both packet processing and dsp-intensive functions, and are well suited for applications ranging from wireless technology to high-speed wired networking and data center. virtex ultrascale+ devices, which include industry-leading capabilities such as 32g transceivers, peripheral component interconnect express (pcie) gen 4 integrated cores, and ultraram on-chip memory technology, provide the required performance and integration needed for next generation data center, 400g and terabit wireline, test and measurement, and aerospace and defense applications. 6 table of contents ultrascale product families these devices deliver an asic-class advantage, based on the ultrascale architecture and utilizing tsmc's 20soc gate density process. these devices deliver next generation routing, asic-like clocking, and enhancements to logic and fabric to eliminate interconnect bottlenecks while supporting consistent device utilization. kintex ultrascale fpgas represent the company's second generation mid-range fpga family. these devices offer high price-performance at the lowest power. kintex ultrascale devices are designed to meet the requirements for the growing number of key applications including next generation wireline and wireless communications and ultra-high definition displays and equipment. virtex ultrascale devices provide advanced levels of performance, system integration and bandwidth on a single chip. the largest family member delivers 4.4m logic cells, more than doubling xilinx's industry's highest capacity device and delivering 50m equivalent asic gates. virtex ultrascale devices are expected to be used in the industry's most challenging applications including: 400g communication applications, high performance computing, surveillance and reconnaissance systems, and asic emulation and prototyping. 28nm product families the 28nm product families are fabricated on a high-k metal gate, high performance and low power 28nm process technology. these product families are based on a scalable and optimized architecture, which enables design, ip portability and re-use across all families as well as provides designers the ability to achieve the appropriate combination of i/o support, performance, feature quantities, packaging and power consumption to address a wide range of applications. the 28nm product families include: virtex-7 fpgas, including 3d ics, are optimized for applications requiring the highest capacity, performance, dsp and serial connectivity with transceivers operating up to 28g. target applications include 400g and 100g line cards, high-performance computing and test and measurement applications. kintex-7 fpgas represent xilinx's first mid-range fpga family. these devices maximize price-performance and performance per watt. target applications include wireless lte infrastructure, video display technology and medical imaging. artix-7 fpgas offer the lowest power and system cost at higher performance than alternative high volume fpgas. these devices are targeted to high volume applications such as handheld portable ultrasound devices, multi-function printers and software defined radios. the zynq-7000 family is the first family of xilinx programmable socs. this new class of product combines an industry-standard arm dual-core cortex-a9 mpcore processing system with xilinx 28nm architecture. there are five devices in the zynq-7000 soc family that allow designers to target cost sensitive as well as high-performance applications from a single platform using industry-standard tools. these devices are designed to enable incremental market opportunities in applications such as industrial motor control, driver assistance and smart surveillance systems, and smart heterogeneous wireless networks. 40nm and 45nm product families the virtex-6 fpga family consists of 13 devices and is the sixth generation in the virtex series of fpgas. virtex-6 fpgas are fabricated on a high-performance 40nm process technology. there are three virtex-6 families, and each is optimized to deliver different feature mixes to address a variety of markets. the latest generation in the spartan fpga series, the spartan-6 fpga family, is fabricated on a low-power 45nm process technology. the spartan-6 family is the pld industry's only 45nm high-volume fpga family, consisting of 11 devices in two product families. other product families prior generation virtex families include virtex-5, virtex-4, virtex-ii pro, virtex-ii, virtex-e and the original virtex family. spartan family fpgas include 90nm spartan-3 fpgas, the spartan-3e family and the spartan-3a family. prior generation spartan families include spartan-iie, spartan-ii, spartan xl and the original spartan family. cplds operate on the lowest end of the programmable logic density spectrum. cplds are single-chip, nonvolatile solutions characterized by instant-on and universal interconnect. cplds combine the advantages of ultra-low power consumption with the benefits of high performance and low cost. prior generations of cplds include the coolrunner and xc9500 product families. 7 table of contents easypath fpgas easypath fpgas offer customers a fast, simple method of cost-reducing fpga designs. easypath fpgas use the same production masks and fabrication process as standard fpgas and are tested to a specific customer application to improve yield and lower costs. as a result, easypath fpgas provide customers with significant cost reduction when compared to the standard fpga devices without the conversion risk, engineering effort, or the additional time required to move to an asic. the latest generation of easypath fpgas and easypath-7 fpgas provide lower total product cost of ownership for cost-reducing high performance fpgas. design platforms and services programmable platforms we offer three types of programmable platforms that support our customers' designs and reduce their development efforts: the base platform is the delivery vehicle for all of our new silicon offerings used to develop and run customer-specific software applications and hardware designs. released at launch, the base platform is comprised of: fpga silicon; vivado design suite design environment; integration support for optional third-party synthesis, simulation and signal integrity tools; reference designs; development boards and ip. the domain-specific platform targets one of the three primary xilinx fpga user profiles: the embedded processing developer; the dsp developer; or the logic/connectivity developer. it accomplishes this by augmenting the base platform with a targeted set of integrated technologies, including: higher-level design methodologies and tools; domain-specific ip including embedded, mixed signal, video, dsp and connectivity; domain-specific development hardware and reference designs; and operating systems and software. the market-specific platform enables software or hardware developers to quickly build and run their specific application or solution. built for specific markets such as automotive, consumer, aerospace and defense, communications, audio, video and broadcast, industrial, or scientific and medical, the market-specific platform integrates both the base and domain-specific platforms with higher targeted applications elements such as ip, reference designs and boards optimized for a particular market. design tools to accommodate the various design methodologies and design flows employed by the wide range of our customers' user profiles such as system designers, algorithm designers, software coders and logic designers, we provide the appropriate design environment tailored to each user profile for design creation, design implementation and design verification. in april 2012, xilinx introduced the next-generation vivado design suite designed to improve developer productivity resulting in faster design integration and implementation. the vivado design suite hallmarks include an easy-to-use ip-centric design flow and significant improvement in run times. the standards-based vivado tools include high-level synthesis to provide a more direct flow in retargeting dsps and general purpose processor designs into our fpgas, ip integrator to rapidly stitch together cores at higher levels of abstraction, and a new analytical place-and-route engine which significantly improves run times. the vivado design suite supports xilinx 7 series fpgas and zynq-7000, our programmable socs, as well as the ultrascale and ultrascale+ product generations. the previous generation tool suite, the ise design suite, supports xilinx 7 series fpgas, programmable socs and all previous generation fpgas, enabling customers to transition to the vivado design suite when the timing is right for their design needs. both the vivado design suite and ise design suite operate with a wide range of third-party electronic design automation software point-tools offerings. in early 2015, xilinx also introduced the sdx development environment, which will significantly expand the xilinx user base to include the broad community of systems and software engineers in both existing and new markets. this innovative development environment also enables end user and third party platform developers to rapidly define, integrate and verify system level solutions and provide their end customers with a customized programming environment. the sdx family includes the sdnet environment, which enables the easy creation of high-performance packet processing systems with high level user defined specifications and compilation to highly optimized fpgas; the sdaccel environment for opencl, c and c++ software designers focusing on data center acceleration applications; and the sdsoc environment for all programmable socs and mpsocs. 8 table of contents intellectual property xilinx and various third parties offer hundreds of no charge and fee-bearing ip core licenses covering ethernet, memory controllers, interlaken and pcie interfaces, as well as an abundance of domain-specific ip in the areas of embedded, dsp and connectivity, and market-specific ip cores. in addition, our products and technology leverage industry standards such as arm amba axi-4 interconnect technology, ip-xact and ieee p1735 encryption to facilitate plug-and-play fpga design and take advantage of the large ecosystem of arm ip developers. development boards, kits and configuration products in addition to the broad selection of legacy development boards presently offered, we have introduced a new unified board strategy that enables the creation of a standardized and coordinated set of base boards available both from xilinx and our ecosystem vendors, all utilizing the industry-standard extensions that enable customization for market specific applications. adopting this standard for all of our base boards enables the creation of a scalable and extensible delivery mechanism for all xilinx programmable platforms. we also offer comprehensive development kits including hardware, design tools, ip and reference designs that are designed to streamline and accelerate the development of domain-specific and market-specific applications. finally, xilinx offers a range of configuration products including one-time programmable and in-system programmable storage devices to configure xilinx fpgas. these programmable read-only memory (prom) products support all of our fpga devices. third-party alliances xilinx and certain third parties have developed and continue to offer a robust ecosystem of ip, boards, tools, services and support through the xilinx alliance program. xilinx also works with these third parties to promote our programmable platforms through third-party tools, ip, software, boards and design services. engineering services xilinx engineering services provide customers with engineering resources to augment their design teams and to provide expert design-specific advice. xilinx tailors its engineering services to the needs of its customers, ranging from hands-on training to full design creation and implementation. research and development our research and development (r&amp;d) activities are primarily directed towards the design of new ics and the development of new software design automation tools for hardware and embedded software, the design of logic ip, the adoption of advanced semiconductor manufacturing processes for ongoing cost reductions, performance and signal integrity improvements and lowering pld power consumption. as a result of our r&amp;d efforts, we have introduced a number of new products during the past several years including the virtex, kintex and zynq ultrascale+, virtex &amp; kintex ultrascale and artix, kintex, virtex &amp; zynq 7 series program families. we have enhanced our ip core offerings and introduced our next generation software design suite (vivado) optimized for sdsoc, sdaccel and sdnet application development. through process technology collaboration with our foundry suppliers along with strategic investment in eda tools and improved design techniques, we have been the first pld company to ship 45nm high-volume, 28nm, 20nm and 16nm fpga devices. additionally, our investment in r&amp;d has allowed us to ship the industry's first 28nm and 16nm devices with embedded arm technology as well as the industry's first 3d ic devices on the 28nm and 20nm process nodes. we believe technical leadership and innovation are essential to our future success, and we continue to invest in our technology. in fiscal 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , our r&amp;d expenses were $533.9 million , $525.7 million and $492.4 million , respectively. sales and distribution we sell our products to oems, ems and to electronic components distributors who resell these products to oems and ems. we use a dedicated global sales and marketing organization as well as independent sales representatives to generate sales. in general, we focus our direct demand creation efforts on a limited number of key accounts. distributors and independent sales 9 table of contents representatives create demand within the balance of our customer base in defined territories. distributors also provide inventory, value-added services and logistics for a wide range of our oem customers. whether xilinx, the independent sales representative, or the distributor identifies the sales opportunity, a local distributor will process and fulfill the majority of all customer orders. in such situations, distributors are the sellers of the products and as such they bear most legal and financial risks generally related to the sale of commercial goods, including such risks as credit loss, inventory shrinkage, theft and foreign currency fluctuations, but excluding certain indemnity and warranty liability. in accordance with our distribution agreements and industry practice, we have granted our authorized distributors the contractual right to return certain amounts of unsold product on a periodic basis and also receive price adjustments for unsold product in the case of a change in list prices subsequent to the initial sale. revenue recognition on shipments to distributors worldwide is deferred until the products are sold to the distributors' end customers. avnet, inc. (avnet) distributes the substantial majority of our products worldwide. as of april 2, 2016 and march 28, 2015 , avnet accounted for 75% and 67% , respectively, of our total net accounts receivable. resale of product through avnet accounted for 50% , 43% and 46% of our worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. we also use other regional distributors throughout the world. we believe distributors provide a cost-effective means of reaching a broad range of customers while providing efficient logistics services. since plds are standard products, they do not carry many of the inventory risks posed by asics. from time to time, we may add or terminate distributors in specific geographies, or move customers to a direct support or fulfillment model as we deem appropriate given our strategies, the level of distributor business activity and distributor performance and financial condition. see "note 2. summary of significant accounting policies and concentrations of risk" to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. "financial statements and supplementary data," for information about concentrations of credit risk and "note 16. segment information" for information about our revenues from external customers and domestic and international operations. no end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues in fiscal 2016 , 2015 or 2014 . backlog as of april 2, 2016 , our backlog from oem customers and backlog from end customers reported by our distributors scheduled for delivery within the next three months was $289.0 million, compared to $296.0 million as of march 28, 2015 . orders from end customers to our distributors are subject to changes in delivery schedules or to cancellation without significant penalty. as a result, backlog from both oem customers and end customers reported by our distributors as of any particular period may not be a reliable indicator of revenue for any future period. wafer fabrication as a fabless semiconductor company, we do not manufacture wafers used for our ic products or proms. rather, we purchase our wafers from independent foundries including tsmc, united microelectronics corporation (umc) and samsung electronics co., ltd. (samsung). tsmc manufactures the wafers for our newest products. precise terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations with each wafer foundry. our strategy is to focus our resources on market development and creating new ics and software design tools rather than on wafer fabrication. we continuously evaluate opportunities to enhance foundry relationships and/or obtain additional capacity from our main suppliers as well as other suppliers of wafers manufactured with leading-edge process technologies, and we adjust loadings at particular foundries to meet our business needs. sort, assembly and test wafers are sorted by the foundry or independent sort subcontractors. sorted die are assembled by subcontractors. during the assembly process, the wafers are separated into individual die, which are then assembled into various package types. following assembly, the packaged units are generally tested by independent test subcontractors or by xilinx personnel. we purchase most of our assembly services from siliconware precision industries ltd and most of our test services from king yuan electronics company in taiwan. 10 table of contents quality certification xilinx has achieved and currently maintains quality management systems certification to tl9000/iso9001 for our facilities in san jose, california; longmont, colorado; singapore and hyderabad, india. in addition, xilinx achieved and currently maintains iso 14001 and ohsas 18001 environmental health and safety management system certifications in the san jose and singapore locations. intellectual property and licenses while our various proprietary intellectual property rights are important to our success, we believe our business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. as of april 2, 2016 , we held over 3,500 issued united states (u.s.) patents, which vary in duration, and over 300 pending u.s. patent applications relating to our proprietary technology. we maintain an active program of filing for additional patents in the areas of, but not limited to, circuits, software, ic architecture, ip cores, system design, testing methodologies and other technologies relating to our products and business. we have licensed some parties to certain portions of our patent portfolio and obtained licenses to certain third-party patents as well. we have acquired various licenses from third parties to certain technologies that are implemented in ip cores or embedded in our plds, such as processors. those licenses support our continuing ability to make and sell these plds to our customers. we also have acquired various licenses to certain third-party proprietary software, open-source software and related technologies, such as compilers, for our design tools. continued use of such software and technology is important to the operation of the design tools upon which customers depend. we maintain the xilinx trade name and trademarks, including the following trademarks that are registered in the u.s. and other countries: xilinx, the xilinx logo, artix, coolrunner, ise, kintex, spartan, virtex, vivado and zynq. maintaining these trademarks, and the goodwill associated with them, is important to our business. we have also obtained the rights to use certain trademarks owned by consortiums and other trademark owners that are related to our products and business. we intend to continue to protect our ip rights (including, for example, patents, copyrights and trademarks) vigorously. we believe that failure to enforce our intellectual property rights or failure to protect our trade secrets effectively could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we incurred, and in the future we may continue to incur, litigation expenses to defend against claims of infringement and to enforce our intellectual property rights against third parties. however, any such litigation may or may not be successful. corporate responsibility xilinx places a high level of importance on corporate responsibility. through senior-level sponsorship, regular environmental, health and safety assessments and company-wide performance targets, we strive to achieve a culture that emphasizes contribution to local and global communities through a number of key initiatives: company we strive to meet or exceed industry and regulatory standards for ethical business practices, product responsibility, and supplier management. all of xilinx's directors, officers and employees are required to comply not only with the letter of the laws, rules and regulations that govern the conduct of our business, but also with the spirit of those laws. environment we monitor regulatory and resource trends and are committed to setting focused targets for key resources and emissions. these targets address several parameters, including product design; chemical, energy and water use; waste recycling; and emissions. as a company, we focus on reducing natural resource use, the solid and chemical waste of our operations and minimizing our overall environmental impact with regards to the communities around us and consistent with global climate change efforts. community we are committed to growing strategic relationships with a wide range of local organizations and programs that are designed to develop and strengthen communities located around the world. xilinx develops local community relationships at key sites through funding and involvement that encourages active participation, teamwork, and volunteerism. xilinx supports opportunities initiated 11 table of contents by its employees and that involve participation and empowerment of its employees. we are committed to charitable giving programs that work towards systemic change and measurable results. workplace we provide a safe and healthy work environment where employee diversity is embraced and opportunities for training, growth, and advancement are strongly encouraged. the xilinx code of social responsibility outlines standards to ensure that working conditions at xilinx are safe and that workers are treated with respect, fairness and dignity. employees as of april 2, 2016 , we had 3,458 employees compared to 3,451 as of the end of the prior fiscal year. none of our employees are represented by a labor union. we have not experienced any work stoppages and believe we maintain good employee relations. executive officers of the registrant certain information regarding the executive officers and persons chosen to become executive officers of xilinx as of may 17, 2016 is set forth below: name age position moshe n. gavrielov 61 president and chief executive officer (ceo) steven l. glaser 54 senior vice president, corporate strategy and marketing scott r. hover-smoot 61 senior vice president, general counsel and secretary jon a. olson (1) 62 executive vice president and chief financial officer (cfo) victor peng 56 executive vice president and general manager of products krishna rangasayee 47 senior vice president and general manager, global sales and markets vincent l. tong 54 senior vice president, global operations and quality lorenzo a. flores (2) 51 corporate vice president of finance and corporate controller (1) mr. olson will retire as cfo in late may 2016 and will provide transition services to the company through july 15, 2016. (2) upon mr. olson's retirement as cfo, mr. flores will become senior vice president and cfo. there are no family relationships among the executive officers of the company or the board of directors. moshe n. gavrielov joined the company in january 2008 as president and ceo and was appointed to the board of directors in february 2008. prior to joining the company, mr. gavrielov served at cadence design systems, inc., an electronic design automation company, as executive vice president and general manager of the verification division from april 2005 through november 2007. mr. gavrielov served as ceo of verisity ltd., an electronic design automation company, from march 1998 to april 2005 before its acquisition by cadence design systems, inc. prior to joining verisity, mr. gavrielov spent nearly 10 years at lsi corporation (formerly lsi logic corporation), a semiconductor manufacturer, in a variety of executive management positions, including executive vice president of the products group, senior vice president and general manager of international marketing and sales and senior vice president and general manager of lsi logic europe plc. additionally, mr. gavrielov held various engineering and engineering management positions at digital equipment corporation and national semiconductor corporation. steven l. glaser joined the company in january 2011 as corporate vice president, strategic planning. in april 2012, mr. glaser was promoted to his current position of senior vice president, corporate strategy and marketing. prior to joining the company, mr. glaser held various senior positions in cadence design systems between april 2005 and january 2011, including corporate vice president of strategic development and corporate vice president of marketing for the verification division. from june 2003 to april 2005, he served as senior vice president of marketing at verisity ltd. prior to that, mr. glaser held various senior business and technical positions at companies in the semiconductor and electronic design automation industries. 12 table of contents scott r. hover-smoot joined the company in october 2007 and currently serves as senior vice president, general counsel and secretary, a position he has held since may 2014. from october 2007 to may 2014, mr. hover-smoot served as corporate vice president, general counsel and secretary. from november 2001 to october 2007, mr. hover-smoot served as regional counsel and director of legal operations with tsmc, an independent semiconductor foundry. he served as vice president and general counsel of california micro devices corporation, a provider of application-specific protection devices and display electronics devices from june 1994 to november 2001. prior to joining california micro devices corporation, mr. hover-smoot spent over 20 years working in law firms including berliner-cohen, flehr, hohbach, test, albritton &amp; herbert and lyon &amp; lyon. jon a. olson joined the company in june 2005 and currently serves as executive vice president and cfo, a position he has held since may 2014. mr. olson will retire as cfo in late may 2016, and will remain an executive vice president providing transition services until july 15, 2016. from august 2006 to may 2014, mr. olson served as senior vice president, finance and cfo. from june 2005 to august 2006, he served as vice president, finance and cfo. prior to joining the company, mr. olson spent more than 25 years at intel, a semiconductor chip maker, serving in a variety of positions, including vice president, finance and enterprise services, and director of finance. victor peng joined the company in april 2008 and currently serves as executive vice president and general manager of products, a position he has held since july 2014. from may 2013 through april 2014, mr. peng served as senior vice president and general manager of the programmable platforms group. from may 2012 through april 2013, he served as senior vice president of the programmable platforms group. from november 2008 through april 2012, he served as senior vice president of the programmable platforms development group. prior to joining the company, mr. peng served as corporate vice president, graphics products group at advanced micro devices (amd), a provider of processing solutions, from november 2005 to april 2008. prior to joining amd, mr. peng served in a variety of executive engineering positions at companies in the semiconductor and processor industries. krishna rangasayee joined the company in july 1999 and currently serves as senior vice president, and general manager, global sales and markets, a position he has held since january 2015. prior to that, he served in a number of key roles, including as senior director of vertical markets and partnerships from november 2005 through june 2008. he then served as the vice president of strategic planning from july 2008 through september 2010 and was promoted to the rank of corporate vice president for the same function. mr. rangasayee assumed the position of corporate vice president and general manager, communications business unit in october 2010. mr. rangasayee was promoted to the position of senior vice president, and general manager, communications business unit in april 2012. he became senior vice president, and general manager, market segments and communications business unit in october 2013. prior to joining xilinx, mr. rangasayee held various positions at altera, a provider of programmable logic solutions, and cypress semiconductor, a semiconductor company. vincent l. tong joined the company in may 1990 and currently serves as senior vice president, global operations and quality, a position he has held since january 2015, and executive leader, asia pacific since october 2011. mr. tong previously served as senior vice president, worldwide quality and new product introductions from june 2008 to january 2015. he has also served as vice president, worldwide quality and reliability from august 2006 to june 2008 and prior to that as vice president of product technology from may 2001 to july 2006. prior to joining the company, mr. tong served in a variety of engineering and management positions at monolithic memories, a producer of logic devices, and amd. he holds seven u.s. patents. lorenzo a. flores joined the company in september 2008 and currently serves as corporate vice president of finance and corporate controller, a position he has held since july 2012. from september 2008 to june 2012 he served as vice president of finance and corporate controller. prior to joining the company, mr. flores was assistant vice president of financial planning and analysis at cognizant technology solutions, served as cfo of a venture funded startup, and spent ten years at intel corporation, a semiconductor chip maker, serving in a variety of positions, including controller, intel architecture cpus and controller, telecommunications and embedded group. mr. flores will become cfo upon mr. olson's retirement as cfo in late may 2016. 13 table of contents additional information we make available, via a link through our investor relations website located at www.investor.xilinx.com, access to our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the u.s. securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (exchange act) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission (sec). all such filings on our investor relations website are available free of charge. printed copies of these documents are also available to stockholders without charge, upon written request directed to xilinx, inc., attn: investor relations, 2100 logic drive, san jose, ca 95124. further, a copy of this annual report on form 10-k is located at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room can be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings at http://www.sec.gov. the content on any website referred to in this filing is not incorporated by reference into this filing unless expressly noted otherwise. additional information required by this item 1 is incorporated by reference to the section captioned "net revenues - net revenues by geography" in item 7. "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and to "note 16. segment information" to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. "financial statements and supplementary data." this annual report includes trademarks and service marks of xilinx and other companies that are unregistered and registered in the u.s. and other countries. item 1a. risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks to the company. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company, or that the company's management currently deems immaterial, also may impair its business operations. if any of the risks described below were to occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. our success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products and failure to do so would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. our success depends in large part on our ability to develop and introduce new products that address customer requirements and compete effectively on the basis of price, density, functionality, power consumption and performance. consolidation in our industry may increasingly mean that our competitors have greater resources, or other synergies, that provide them with a competitive advantage in those regards. the success of new product introductions is dependent upon several factors, including: timely completion of new product designs; ability to generate new design opportunities and design wins; availability of specialized field application engineering resources supporting demand creation and customer adoption of new products; ability to utilize advanced manufacturing process technologies on circuit geometries of 28nm and smaller; achieving acceptable yields; ability to obtain adequate production capacity from our wafer foundries and assembly and test subcontractors; ability to obtain advanced packaging; availability of supporting software design tools; utilization of predefined ip logic; customer acceptance of advanced features in our new products; ability of our customers to complete their product designs and bring them to market; and market acceptance of our customers' products. our product development efforts may not be successful, our new products may not achieve industry acceptance and we may not achieve the necessary volume of production that would lead to further per unit cost reductions. revenues relating to our mature products are expected to decline in the future, which is normal for our product life cycles. as a result, we may be increasingly dependent on revenues derived from design wins for our newer products as well as anticipated cost reductions in the manufacture of our current products. we rely primarily on obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture of existing products, and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and other price/performance factors that enable us to increase revenues while maintaining consistent margins. to the extent that such cost reductions and new product 14 table of contents introductions do not occur in a timely manner, or to the extent that our products do not achieve market acceptance at prices with higher margins, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we rely on independent foundries for the manufacture of all of our products and a manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could adversely affect our operations. most of our wafers are manufactured in taiwan by umc and by tsmc for our newest products. in addition, we also have wafers manufactured in south korea by samsung electronics co., ltd. terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations between xilinx and these wafer foundries, which usually result in short-term agreements that do not provide for long-term supply or allocation commitments. we are dependent on these foundries to supply the substantial majority of our wafers. we rely on umc, tsmc and our other foundries to produce wafers with competitive performance attributes. therefore, the foundries, particularly tsmc who manufactures our newest products, must be able to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies and increased wafer sizes, produce wafers at acceptable yields and deliver them in a timely manner. furthermore, we cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our wafers will offer us competitive pricing terms or other commercial terms important to our business. we cannot guarantee that our foundries will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies or difficulties due to limitations of new and existing process technologies. furthermore, we cannot guarantee the foundries will be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products or that they will continue to manufacture a product for the full life of the product. in addition, weak economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of the foundries and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us. for example, we may experience supply shortages due to the difficulties foundries may encounter if they must rapidly increase their production capacities from low utilization levels to high utilization levels because of an unexpected increase in demand. we may also experience supply shortages due to very strong demand for our products and a surge in demand for semiconductors in general, which may lead to tightening of foundry capacity across the industry. the insolvency of a foundry or any significant manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity would disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. earthquakes and other natural disasters could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the independent foundries, upon which we rely to manufacture our products, as well as our california and singapore facilities, are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. umc's and tsmc's foundries in taiwan and our assembly and test partners in other regions as well as many of our operations in california are centered in areas that have been seismically active in the recent past and some areas have been affected by other natural disasters such as typhoons. any catastrophic event in these locations will disrupt our operations, including our manufacturing activities, and our insurance may not cover losses resulting from such disruptions of our operations. this type of disruption could result in our inability to manufacture or ship products, thereby materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. for example, as a result of the march 2011 earthquake in japan, production at the seiko foundry at sakata was halted temporarily, impacting production of some of our older devices. in addition, suppliers of wafers and substrates were forced to halt production temporarily. disruption of operations at these foundries for any reason, including other natural disasters such as typhoons, tsunamis, volcano eruptions, fires or floods, as well as disruptions in access to adequate supplies of electricity, natural gas or water could cause delays in shipments of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. furthermore, natural disasters can also indirectly impact us. for example, our customers' supply of other complimentary products may be disrupted by a natural disaster and may cause them to delay orders of our products. more vertically-integrated competitors may be less exposed to some or all of these and other risks. general economic conditions and any related deterioration in the global business environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. during the past five years, global consumer confidence eroded amidst concerns over declining asset values, inflation, volatility in energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, rising unemployment, and the stability and solvency of financial institutions, financial markets, businesses and sovereign nations, among other concerns. these concerns slowed global economic growth and resulted in recessions in numerous countries, including many of those in north america, europe and asia. the financial condition of certain sovereign nations, particularly in europe, is of continuing concern as the sovereign debt crisis remains unresolved. these weak economic conditions resulted in reduced customer demand and had a negative impact on our results of operations in some parts of fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2013. if weak economic conditions return, there may be a number of negative effects on our business, including customers or potential customers reducing or delaying orders, the insolvency of key suppliers, potentially causing production delays, the inability of customers to obtain credit, and the insolvency of one or more 15 table of contents customers. any of these effects could impact our ability to effectively manage inventory levels and collect receivables and ultimately decrease our net revenues and profitability. the semiconductor industry is characterized by cyclical market patterns and a significant industry downturn could adversely affect our operating results. the semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and our financial performance has been affected by downturns in the industry. down cycles are generally characterized by price erosion and weaker demand for our products. weaker demand for our products resulting from economic conditions in the end markets we serve and reduced capital spending by our customers can result, and in the past has resulted, in excess and obsolete inventories and corresponding inventory write-downs. we attempt to identify changes in market conditions as soon as possible; however, the dynamics of the market in which we operate make prediction of and timely reaction to such events difficult. due to these and other factors, our past results are not reliable predictors of our future results. the nature of our business makes our revenues difficult to predict which could have an adverse impact on our business. in addition to the challenging market conditions we may face, we have limited visibility into the demand for our products, particularly new products, because demand for our products depends upon our products being designed into our end customers' products and those products achieving market acceptance. due to the complexity of our customers' designs, the design to volume production process for our customers requires a substantial amount of time, frequently longer than a year. in addition to this, other factors may affect our end customers' demand for our products, including, but not limited to, end customer program delays and the ability of end customers to secure other complimentary products. we also are dependent upon "turns," orders received and turned for shipment in the same quarter. these factors make it difficult for us to forecast future sales and project quarterly revenues. the difficulty in forecasting future sales impairs our ability to project our inventory requirements, which could result, and in the past has resulted, in inventory write-downs or failure to meet customer product demands in a timely manner. in addition, difficulty in forecasting revenues compromises our ability to provide forward-looking revenue and earnings guidance. if we are not able to compete successfully in our industry, our financial results and future prospects will be adversely affected. our plds compete in the ic industry, an industry that is intensely competitive, continues to consolidate, and is characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion. we expect increased competition from our primary pld competitors, altera (part of intel), lattice and microsemi, and from new market entrants. in addition, competition from the asic market and from the assp market continues. we believe that important competitive factors in the logic ic industry include: product pricing; time-to-market; product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density; field upgradeability; adaptability of products to specific applications; ease of use and functionality of software design tools; availability and functionality of predefined ip logic; inventory and supply chain management; access to leading-edge process technology and assembly capacity; ability to provide timely customer service and support; and access to advanced packaging technology. our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high-volume, low-cost and low-power applications as well as high-performance, high-density applications. however, we may not be successful in executing this strategy. in addition, we anticipate continued pressure from our customers to reduce prices, which may outpace our ability to lower the cost for established products. other competitors include manufacturers of: high-density programmable logic products characterized by fpga type architectures; high-volume and low-cost fpgas as programmable replacements for asics and assps; asics and assps with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; high-speed, low-density complex programmable logic devices; high-performance digital signal processing devices; 16 table of contents products with embedded processors; products with embedded multi-gigabit transceivers; and other new or emerging programmable logic products. several companies have introduced products that compete with ours or have announced their intention to sell pld products. to the extent that our efforts to compete are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the benefits of programmable logic have attracted a number of competitors to this segment. we recognize that different applications require different programmable technologies, and we are developing architectures, processes and products to meet these varying customer needs. recognizing the increasing importance of standard software solutions, we have developed common software design tools that support the full range of our ic products. we believe that automation and ease of design are significant competitive factors in this segment. we could also face competition from our licensees. in the past we have granted limited rights to other companies with respect to certain aspects of our older technology, and we may do so in the future. granting such rights may enable these companies to manufacture and market products that may be competitive with some of our older products. increased costs of wafers and materials, or shortages in wafers and materials, could adversely impact our gross margins and lead to reduced revenues. if greater demand for wafers is not offset by an increase in foundry capacity, market demand for wafers or production and assembly materials increases, or if a supplier of our wafers or other materials ceases or suspends operations, our supply of wafers and other materials could become limited. such shortages raise the likelihood of potential wafer price increases, wafer shortages or shortages in materials at production and test facilities, resulting in potential inability to address customer product demands in a timely manner. for example, when certain suppliers were forced to temporarily halt production as the result of a natural disaster, this resulted in a tightening of supply for those materials. such shortages of wafers and materials as well as increases in wafer or materials prices could adversely affect our gross margins and would adversely affect our ability to meet customer demands and lead to reduced revenue. we depend on distributors, primarily avnet, to generate a majority of our sales and complete order fulfillment. resale of product through avnet accounted for 50% of our worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2016 and as of april 2, 2016 , avnet accounted for 75% of our total net accounts receivable. any adverse change to our relationship with avnet or our remaining distributors could have a material impact on our business. furthermore, if a key distributor materially defaults on a contract or otherwise fails to perform, our business and financial results would suffer. in addition, we are subject to concentrations of credit risk in our trade accounts receivable, which includes accounts of our distributors. a significant reduction of effort by a distributor to sell our products or a material change in our relationship with one or more distributors may reduce our access to certain end customers and adversely affect our ability to sell our products. in addition, the financial health of our distributors and our continuing relationships with them are important to our success. unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health of some of these distributors, particularly our smaller distributors. this could result in the insolvency of certain distributors, the inability of distributors to obtain credit to finance the purchase of our products, or cause distributors to delay payment of their obligations to us and increase our credit risk exposure. our business could be harmed if the financial health of these distributors impairs their performance and we are unable to secure alternate distributors. we are dependent on independent subcontractors for most of our assembly and test services, and unavailability or disruption of these services could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. we are dependent on subcontractors to provide semiconductor assembly, substrate, test and shipment services. any prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, any disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, delays in stabilizing manufacturing processes and ramping up volume for new products, transitions to new service providers or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands. in addition, unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of these subcontractors and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us. these factors would result in reduced net revenues and could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. 17 table of contents a number of factors, including our inventory strategy, can impact our gross margins. a number of factors, including yield, wafer pricing, product mix, market acceptance of our new products, competitive pricing dynamics, geographic and/or market segment pricing strategies can cause our gross margins to fluctuate. in addition, forecasting our gross margins is difficult because a significant portion of our business is based on turns within the same quarter. our inventory levels have recently been higher than historical norms due to weaker than anticipated sales and a planned increase in safety stock across newer technologies in anticipation of future revenue growth. in the event demand does not materialize, we may be subject to incremental obsolescence costs. in addition, future product cost reductions could have an increased impact on our inventory valuation, which would then impact our operating results. reductions in the average selling prices of our products could have a negative impact on our gross margins. the average selling prices of our products generally decline as the products mature. we seek to offset the decrease in selling prices through yield improvement, manufacturing cost reductions and increased unit sales. we also continue to develop higher value products or product features that increase, or slow the decline of, the average selling price of our products. however, there is no guarantee that our ongoing efforts will be successful or that they will keep pace with the decline in selling prices of our products, which could ultimately lead to a decline in revenues and have a negative effect on our gross margins. because of our international business and operations, we are vulnerable to the economic conditions of the countries in which we operate and currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. in addition to our u.s. operations, we also have significant international operations, including foreign sales offices to support our international customers and distributors, our regional headquarters in ireland and singapore and an r&amp;d site in india. our international operations have grown because we have established certain operations and administrative functions outside the u.s. sales and operations outside of the u.s. subject us to the risks associated with conducting business in foreign economic and regulatory environments. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in countries in which we do significant business or by changes in foreign currency exchange rates affecting those countries. we derive over one-half of our revenues from international sales, primarily in the asia pacific region, europe and japan. past economic weaknesses in these markets adversely affected revenues. sales to all direct oems and distributors are denominated in u.s. dollars. while the recent movements of the euro and yen exchange rates against the u.s. dollar had no material impact to our business, increased volatility could impact our european and japanese customers. currency instability and volatility and disruptions in the credit and capital markets may increase credit risks for some of our customers and may impair our customers' ability to repay existing obligations. increased currency volatility could also positively or negatively impact our foreign-currency-denominated costs, assets and liabilities. in addition, any devaluation of the u.s. dollar relative to other foreign currencies may increase the operating expenses of our foreign subsidiaries adversely affecting our results of operations. furthermore, because we are increasingly dependent on the global economy, instability in worldwide economic environments occasioned, for example, directly or indirectly by political instability, terrorist activity, u.s. or other military actions, and international sanctions or other diplomatic actions (potentially including sanctions adopted or under consideration by the u.s. or european union with respect to russia or russian individuals or businesses), could adversely impact economic activity and lead to a contraction of capital spending by our customers generally or in specific regions. any or all of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. we are subject to the risks associated with conducting business operations outside of the u.s. which could adversely affect our business. in addition to international sales and support operations and development activities, we purchase our wafers from foreign foundries, have our commercial products assembled, packaged and tested by subcontractors located outside the u.s. and utilize third party warehouse operators to store and manage inventory levels for certain of our products. all of these activities are subject to the uncertainties associated with international business operations, including global laws and regulations, trade barriers, economic sanctions, tax regulations, import and export regulations, duties and tariffs and other trade restrictions, changes in trade policies, anti-corruption laws, foreign governmental regulations, potential vulnerability of and reduced protection for ip, longer receivable collection periods and disruptions or delays in production or shipments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. for example, on march 8, 2016, the u.s. department of commerce added zte corporation to its "entity list" and placed certain export restrictions on zte and its suppliers. while on march 24th, the u.s. department of commerce announced a temporary relief from the sanction until june 30, 2016, the announced restrictions could cause a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. additional factors that could adversely affect us due to our international operations include rising oil prices and increased costs of natural resources. moreover, 18 table of contents our financial condition and results of operations could be affected in the event of political conflicts or economic crises in countries where our main wafer providers, warehouses, end customers and contract manufacturers who provide assembly and test services worldwide, are located. adverse change to the circumstances or conditions of our international business operations could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and changes in credit rating and in the market values of our portfolio investments which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. our cash, short-term and long-term investments represent significant assets that may be subject to fluctuating or even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements, changes in credit rating and financial market conditions. global credit market disruptions and economic slowdown and uncertainty have in the past negatively impacted the values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities. the global credit and capital markets may again experience significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system, uncertainty related to global economic conditions and concerns regarding sovereign financial stability. therefore, there is a risk that we may incur other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments should credit market conditions deteriorate or the underlying assets fail to perform as anticipated. our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair values of our debt securities is judged to be other than temporary. furthermore, we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or financial market conditions. our failure to protect and defend our ip could impair our ability to compete effectively. we rely upon patent, copyright, trade secret, mask work and trademark laws to protect our ip. we cannot provide assurance that such ip rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, violated, circumvented or challenged. from time to time, third parties, including our competitors, have asserted against us patent, copyright and other ip rights to technologies that are important to us. third parties may attempt to misappropriate our ip through electronic or other means or assert infringement claims against our indemnities or us in the future. such assertions by third parties may result in costly litigation, indemnity claims or other legal actions, and we may not prevail in such matters or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. this could result in the loss of our ability to import and sell our products or require us to pay costly royalties to third parties in connection with sales of our products. any infringement claim, indemnification claim, or impairment or loss of use of our ip could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our ability to design and introduce new products in a timely manner is dependent upon third-party ip. in the design and development of new products and product enhancements, we rely on third-party intellectual property such as software development tools and hardware testing tools. furthermore, certain product features may rely on intellectual property acquired from third parties. the design requirements necessary to meet future consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from semiconductor products may exceed the capabilities of the third-party intellectual property or development tools that are available to us. if the third-party intellectual property that we use becomes unavailable or fails to produce designs that meet consumer demands, our business could be adversely affected. we rely on information technology (it) systems, and failure of these systems to function properly or unauthorized access to our systems could result in business disruption. we rely in part on various it systems to manage our operations, including financial reporting, and we regularly evaluate these systems and make changes to improve them as necessary. consequently, we periodically implement new, or upgrade or enhance existing, operational and it systems, procedures and controls. any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. these systems are also subject to power and telecommunication outages or other general system failures. failure of our it systems or difficulties in managing them could result in business disruption. we also may be subject to unauthorized access to our it systems through a security breach or cyber attack. we experience cyber attacks of varying degrees on an ongoing basis. in the past there have been attempts by third parties to penetrate and/or infect our network and systems with malicious software in an effort to gain access to our network and systems. third parties may continue to attempt to fraudulently induce employees, users, or customers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our network systems. we seek to detect and investigate any security incidents and prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to and sabotage our systems change frequently, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate protections. our business could be significantly harmed, and we could be subject to third party claims in the event of such a security breach. our it systems 19 table of contents are also linked to the it systems of customers, suppliers, and distribution partners and those links provide critical information we use to manage our operations, including information used for financial reporting. the it systems of our customers, suppliers, and distribution partners and the links between our it systems and our customers are subject to the same risks as that of our it systems. for example, in early april 2016, one of our key distribution partners implemented a new information system in north america, and if it cannot successfully complete that implementation, our ability to record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis may be compromised. if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls, our stock price could be adversely affected. we are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (the act). our controls necessary for continued compliance with the act may not operate effectively at all times and may result in a material weakness disclosure. the identification of material weaknesses in internal control, if any, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements and could cause investors to lose confidence and our stock price to drop. we compete with others to attract and retain key personnel, and any loss of, or inability to attract, such personnel would harm us. we depend on the efforts and abilities of certain key members of management and other technical personnel. our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to retain such personnel and attract and retain other highly qualified personnel, particularly product engineers. competition for such personnel is intense and we may not be successful in hiring or retaining new or existing qualified personnel. from time to time we have effected restructurings which eliminate a number of positions. even if such personnel are not directly affected by the restructuring effort, such terminations can have a negative impact on morale and our ability to attract and hire new qualified personnel in the future. if we lose existing qualified personnel or are unable to hire new qualified personnel, as needed, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. unfavorable results of legal proceedings could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. from time to time we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business. the amount of damages alleged in certain legal claims may be significant. for example, in december 2013, we entered into a settlement and license agreement with pact xpp technologies, ag ( pact) in which the parties agreed to dismiss with prejudice all outstanding patent litigation among us, avnet and pact. as part of the settlement, we agreed to pay pact a lump sum of $33.5 million. certain other claims involving the company are not yet resolved, including those that are discussed under item 3. "legal proceedings," included in part i of this form 10-k, and additional claims may arise in the future. results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. regardless of its merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention and we may enter into material settlements to avoid these risks. should we fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against us in the same reporting period, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that would materially and adversely affect a portion of our business and might materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. our products could have defects which could result in reduced revenues and claims against us. we develop complex and evolving products that include both hardware and software. despite our testing efforts and those of our subcontractors, defects may be found in existing or new products. these defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair or replacement costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with customers. subject to certain terms and conditions, we have agreed to compensate certain customers for limited specified costs they actually incur in the event our hardware products experience epidemic failure. as a result, epidemic failure and other performance problems could result in claims against us, the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and would likely harm our business. our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. in addition, we could be subject to product liability claims. a product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly to defend. product liability risks are particularly significant with respect to aerospace, automotive and medical applications because of the risk of serious harm to users of these products. any product liability claim, whether or not determined in our favor, could result in significant expense, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and harm our business. 20 table of contents in preparing our financial statements, we make good faith estimates and judgments that may change or turn out to be erroneous. in preparing our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s., we must make estimates and judgments in applying our most critical accounting policies. those estimates and judgments have a significant impact on the results we report in our consolidated financial statements. the most difficult estimates and subjective judgments that we make concern valuation of marketable and non-marketable securities, revenue recognition, inventories, long-lived assets including acquisition-related intangibles, goodwill, taxes and stock-based compensation. we base our estimates on historical experience, input from outside experts and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. we also have other key accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult, but which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial reporting. actual results may differ materially from these estimates. if these estimates or their related assumptions change, our operating results for the periods in which we revise our estimates or assumptions could be adversely and perhaps materially affected. our failure to comply with the requirements of the export administration regulations (ear) and the international traffic and arms regulations (itar) could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. xilinx fpgas and related technologies are subject to ear, which are administered by the u.s. department of commerce. in addition, xilinx may, from time to time, receive technical data from third parties that is subject to the itar, which are administered by the u.s. department of state. ear and itar govern the export and re-export of these fpgas, the transfer of related technologies, whether in the u.s. or abroad, and the provision of services. we are required to maintain an internal compliance program and security infrastructure to meet ear and itar requirements. an inability to obtain the required export licenses, or to predict when they will be granted, increases the difficulties of forecasting shipments. in addition, security or compliance program failures that could result in penalties or a loss of export privileges, as well as stringent licensing restrictions that may make our products less attractive to overseas customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. our inability to effectively control the sale of our products on the gray market could have a material adverse effect on us. we market and sell our products directly to oems and through authorized third-party distributors which helps to ensure that products delivered to our customers are authentic and properly handled. from time to time, customers may purchase products bearing our name from the unauthorized "gray market." these parts may be counterfeit, salvaged or re-marked parts, or parts that have been altered, mishandled, or damaged. gray market products result in shadow inventory that is not visible to us, thus making it difficult to forecast supply or demand. also, when gray market products enter the market, we and our authorized distributors may compete with brokers of these discounted products, which can adversely affect demand for our products and negatively impact our margins. in addition, our reputation with customers may be negatively impacted when gray market products bearing our name fail or are found to be substandard. the conflict minerals provisions of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act could result in additional costs and liabilities. in accordance with the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, the sec established disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use "conflict" minerals mined from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries in their products, whether or not these products are manufactured by third parties. these requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of our semiconductor products. there will also be costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, including for due diligence in regard to the sources of any conflict minerals used in our products, in addition to the cost of remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. we may face reputational challenges if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all minerals used in our products through the due diligence process we implement. moreover, we may encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products are certified as conflict free. 21 table of contents exposure to greater than anticipated income tax liabilities, changes in tax rules and regulations, changes in interpretation of tax rules and regulations, or unfavorable assessments from tax audits could affect our effective tax rates, financial condition and results of operations. we are a u.s.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple u.s. and foreign tax jurisdictions. our income tax obligations could be affected by many factors, including but not limited to changes to our corporate operating structure, intercompany arrangements and tax planning strategies. a significant portion of our earnings are earned by our subsidiaries outside the u.s. in addition to providing for u.s. income taxes on earnings from the u.s., we provide for u.s. income taxes on the earnings of foreign subsidiaries unless the subsidiaries' earnings are considered permanently reinvested outside the u.s. while we do not anticipate changing our intention regarding permanently reinvested earnings, if certain foreign earnings previously treated as permanently reinvested are repatriated, the related u.s. tax on such repatriated earnings could negatively impact our effective tax rates, financial condition and results of operations. our income tax expense is computed based on tax rates at the time of the respective financial period. our future effective tax rates, financial condition and results from operations could be unfavorably affected by changes in the tax rates in jurisdictions where our income is earned, by changes in the tax rules and regulations or the interpretation of tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets. in addition, we are subject to examinations of our income tax returns by the u.s. internal revenue service and other domestic and foreign tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that may result from the current examinations. there can be no assurance that the final determination of any of these examinations will not have an adverse effect on our effective tax rates, financial position and results of operations. the conditional conversion features of our 2.625% senior convertible debentures due june 15, 2017 (2017 convertible notes) were triggered and holders of the 2017 convertible notes may elect to convert such 2017 convertible notes which could have a material effect on our liquidity. the 2017 convertible notes have conditional conversion features which were triggered in fiscal 2013. holders of the 2017 convertible notes are entitled to convert the 2017 convertible notes at any time during specified periods at their option. as a result of this, we were required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the 2017 convertible notes as a current rather than long-term liability. in addition, we were required to increase the number of shares used in our net income per share calculations to reflect the potentially dilutive impact of the conversion. if one or more holders elect to convert their 2017 convertible notes, we would be required to settle any converted principal through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. considerable amounts of our common shares are available for issuance under our equity incentive plans and 2017 convertible notes, and significant issuances in the future may adversely impact the market price of our common shares. as of april 2, 2016 we had 2.00 billion authorized common shares, of which 253.7 million shares were outstanding. in addition, 30.3 million common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to our equity incentive plans and employee stock purchase plan (espp), 20.0 million common shares were reserved for issuance upon conversion or repurchase of the 2017 convertible notes and 20.5 million common shares were reserved for issuance upon exercise of warrants. the availability of substantial amounts of our common shares resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity incentive plans or the conversion or repurchase of convertible debentures using common shares, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. we have indebtedness that could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. the aggregate amount of our consolidated indebtedness as of april 2, 2016 was $1.60 billion (principal amount), which consists of $500.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 2.125% notes due 2019 (2019 notes), $500.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 3.000% notes due 2021 (2021 notes) and $600.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 2017 convertible notes. we also may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our indebtedness may: make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including making scheduled principal and interest payments on the debentures and our other indebtedness; 22 table of contents limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; require us to use a portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments; limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions; and require us to repatriate off-shore cash to the u.s. at unfavorable tax rates. our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. the agreements governing the 2019 notes and 2021 notes contain covenants that may adversely affect our ability to operate our business. the indentures governing the 2019 notes and 2021 notes contain various covenants limiting our and our subsidiaries' ability to, among other things: create certain liens on principal property or the capital stock of certain subsidiaries; enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions with respect to principal property; and consolidate or merge with, or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all our assets, taken as a whole, to, another person. a failure to comply with these covenants and other provisions in these indentures could result in events of default under the indentures, which could permit acceleration of the 2019 notes and the 2021 notes. any required repayment as a result of such acceleration could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. the call options and warrant transactions related to our 2017 convertible notes may affect the value of the debentures and our common stock. to hedge against potential dilution upon conversion of the 2017 convertible notes, we purchased call options on our common stock from the hedge counterparties. we also sold warrants to the hedge counterparties, which could separately have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants of $41.45 per share. as the hedge counterparties and their respective affiliates modify hedge positions, they may enter or unwind various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchase or sell our common stock in secondary market transactions. this activity also could affect the market price of our common stock and/or debentures, which could affect the ability of the holders of the debentures to convert and the number of shares and value of the consideration that will be received by the holders of the debentures upon conversion. acquisitions and strategic investments present risks, and we may not realize the goals that were contemplated at the time of a transaction. in the past, we have acquired technology companies whose products complement our products. we also have made a number of strategic investments in other technology companies. we may make similar acquisitions and strategic investments in the future. acquisitions and strategic investments present risks, including: our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management's attention may be diverted by investment, acquisition, transition or integration activities; an acquisition or strategic investment may not further our business strategy as we expected, and we may not integrate an acquired company or technology as successfully as we expected; our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by claims or liabilities that we assume from an acquired company or technology or that are otherwise related to an acquisition; we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines; we may have higher than anticipated costs in continuing support and development of acquired products, and in general and administrative functions that support such products; our strategic investments may not perform as expected; and 23 table of contents we may experience unexpected changes in how we are required to account for our acquisitions and strategic investments pursuant to u.s. gaap. the occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions or strategic investments. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 36 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our investment portfolio, which consists of fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $3.26 billion as of april 2, 2016 . our primary aim with our investment portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal and meeting liquidity needs. our investment portfolio includes municipal bonds, mortgage-backed securities, financial institution securities, non-financial institution securities, student loan auction rate securities, u.s. and foreign government and agency securities, asset-backed securities, bank loans and debt mutual funds. in accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer based upon the issuer's credit rating. these securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. a hypothetical 100 basis-point (one percentage point) increase or decrease in interest rates compared to rates at april 2, 2016 and march 28, 2015 would have affected the fair value of our investment portfolio by approximately $47.0 million and $44.0 million, respectively. credit market risk the global credit markets may experience adverse conditions that negatively impact the values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities. the global credit and capital markets may experience significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system, uncertainty related to global economic conditions and concerns regarding sovereign financial stability. therefore, there is a risk that we may incur other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments should credit market conditions deteriorate. see "note 4. financial instruments" to our consolidated financial statements, included inrisk factors 14 "risk factors." often, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words, such as "may," "will," "could," "should," "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," "continue," "plan," "intend," "project" and other similar terminology, or the negative of such terms. we disclaim any responsibility to update or revise any forward-looking statement provided in this annual report or in any of our other communications for any reason. item 1. business xilinx, inc. (xilinx, the company or we) designs and develops programmable devices and associated technologies, including: integrated circuits (ics) in the form of programmable logic devices (plds), including programmable system on chips (socs) and three-dimensional ics (3d ics); software design tools to program the plds; software development environments and embedded platforms; targeted reference designs; printed circuit boards; and intellectual property (ip), which consists of xilinx and various third-party verification and ip cores. in addition to its programmable platforms, xilinx provides design services, customer training, field engineering and technical support. our plds include field programmable gate arrays (fpgas), complex programmable logic devices (cplds) that our customers program to perform desired logic functions, and programmable socs, which combine industry standard arm processor-based systems with programmable logic in a single device. we also design and develop 3d ics, which consist of a combination of fpgas, transceivers and a wide memory interface in a single package to exceed the capacity and bandwidth of monolithic devices. our product portfolio is designed to provide high integration and quick time-to-market for electronic equipment manufacturers in sub-segments such as wireline and data center, wireless, aerospace and defense, test and measurement, industrial, scientific and medical, automotive, audio, video and broadcast and consumer. we sell our products and services through independent domestic and foreign distributors and through direct sales to original equipment manufacturers (oems) and electronic manufacturing service providers (ems). sales are generated by these independent distributors, independent sales representative or our direct sales organization. xilinx was founded and incorporated in california in february 1984. in april 1990, the company was reincorporated in delaware. our corporate facilities and executive offices are located at 2100 logic drive, san jose, california 95124, and our website address is www.xilinx.com. industry overview there are three principal types of ics used in most digital electronic systems: processors, which generally are utilized for control and computing tasks; memory devices, which are used for storing program instructions and data; and logic devices, which generally are used to manage the interchange and manipulation of digital signals within a system. xilinx designs and develops plds, a type of logic device. alternatives to plds may include application specific integrated circuits (asics) and application specific standard products (assps). plds, asics and assps may be utilized in many of the same types of electronic systems. however, differences in unit pricing, development cost, product performance, reliability, power consumption, capacity, features and functionality, ease of use and time-to-market determine which devices are best-suited for specific applications. 3 table of contents plds have key competitive advantages over asics and assps, including: faster time-to-market and increased design flexibility. both of these advantages are enabled by xilinx desktop software which allows users to implement and revise their designs quickly. in contrast, asics and assps require significant development time and offer limited, if any, flexibility to make design changes. plds are standard components. this means that the same device can be sold to many different users for a myriad of applications. in sharp contrast, asics and assps are customized for an individual user or a specific application. plds are generally disadvantaged in terms of relative device size when compared to chips that are designed to perform a fixed function in a single or small set of applications. asics and assps tend to be smaller than plds performing the same fixed function, resulting in a lower unit cost. however, there is a high fixed cost associated with asic and assp development that is not applicable to pld customers. this fixed cost of asic and assp development is expected to significantly increase on next generation technology nodes. from a total cost of development perspective, asics and assps have generally been more cost effective when used in high-volume production, and plds have generally been more cost effective when used in low- to mid-volume production. however, we expect plds to be able to address higher volume applications and gain market share from asic and assp suppliers as the fixed cost of asic and assp development increases on next generation technology nodes. an overview of typical pld end market applications for our products is shown in the following table: end markets sub-segments applications communications &amp; data center wireless 3g/4g/5g base stations wireless backhaul wireline and data center enterprise routers and switches metro optical networks data centers high performance computing industrial, aerospace &amp; defense industrial, scientific and medical factory automation medical imaging machine vision augmented reality test and measurement semiconductor test and measurement equipment asic emulation and prototyping aerospace and defense secure communications avionics electronic warfare and surveillance broadcast, consumer &amp; consumer digital televisions automotive multifunction printers automotive driver assistance systems driver information systems infotainment systems audio, video and broadcast post production equipment broadcast cameras 4 table of contents strategy and competition our strategy for growth is the displacement of asics and assps in the development of next generation electronic systems. the costs and risks associated with application-specific devices can only be justified for high-volume or highly-specialized commodity products. programmable platforms, alternatively, are becoming critical for our customers to meet increasingly stringent product requirements - cost, power, performance and density - in a business environment characterized by increased complexity, shrinking market windows, rapidly changing market demands, capped engineering budgets, escalating asic and assp engineering costs and increased economic and development risk. with every new generation of fpgas, our strategy is to increase the performance, density and system-level functionality and integration, while driving down cost and power consumption at each manufacturing process node. this enables us to provide simpler, smarter programmable platforms and design methodologies allowing our customers to focus on innovation and differentiation of their products. our plds compete in the logic ic industry, an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion. we expect continued competition from our primary pld competitors such as intel corporation (intel), lattice semiconductor corporation (lattice) and microsemi corporation (microsemi), and from assp vendors such as broadcom corporation (broadcom), marvell technology group, ltd. (marvell) and texas instruments incorporated (texas instruments), as well as from companies such as nvidia with whom we traditionally have not participated in competing markets. in addition, we expect continued competition from the asic market, which has been ongoing since the inception of fpgas. other competitors include manufacturers of: high-density programmable logic products characterized by fpga-type architectures; high-volume and low-cost fpgas as programmable replacements for asics and assps; asics and assps with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; high-speed, low-density cplds; high-performance digital signal processing (dsp) devices; products with embedded processors; products with embedded multi-gigabit transceivers; and other new or emerging programmable logic products. we believe that important competitive factors in the logic ic industry include: product pricing; time-to-market; product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density; field upgradability; adaptability of products to specific applications; ease of use and functionality of software design tools; availability and functionality of predefined ip; inventory and supply chain management; access to leading-edge process technology and assembly capacity; ability to provide timely customer service and support; and access to advanced packaging technology. silicon product overview a brief overview of the silicon product offerings is listed in the table below. these products comprise the majority of our revenues. additionally, some of our more mature product families have been excluded from the table, although they continue to generate revenues. we operate and track our results in one operating segment for financial reporting purposes. 5 table of contents product families plds date introduced virtex ultrascale+ january 2016 kintex ultrascale+ december 2015 zynq ultrascale+ september 2015 virtex ultrascale may 2014 kintex ultrascale november 2013 zynq-7000 march 2011 virtex-7 june 2010 kintex-7 june 2010 artix-7 june 2010 virtex-6 february 2009 spartan-6 february 2009 virtex-5 may 2006 see information under the caption "results of operations - net revenues" in item 7. "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" for information about our revenues from our product families. see also "note 15. segment information" to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8. "financial information and supplementary data" for information regarding segments. ultrascale+ product families the ultrascale+ portfolio consists of three product families, and is manufactured using taiwan semiconductor manufacturing company limited's (tsmc) 16 nanometer (nm) finfet+ process. the ultrascale+ portfolio includes fpgas, 3d ic technology, and multi- processing system on a chip (mpsocs) products, combining new memory, 3d on 3d and multiprocessing soc technologies. the zynq ultrascale+ product family represents the company's second generation programmable soc family. this new family combines seven user programmable processors cores including a 64-bit quad-core arm cortex a53 application processing unit, a 32-bit dual-core arm cortex r5 real time processing unit, and an arm mali 400 graphics processing unit. these devices enable the development of next generation embedded vision, automotive, industrial internet of things (iot) and communication systems by providing significant increases in system level performance/watt and any-to-any connectivity with the security and safety required for next generation systems. kintex ultrascale+ devices provide a strong price/performance watt balance in a finfet node, delivering a very cost-effective solution for high-end capabilities including transceiver and memory interface line rates, as well as 100g connectivity cores. these devices are ideal for both packet processing and dsp-intensive functions, and are well suited for applications ranging from wireless technology to high-speed wired networking and data center. virtex ultrascale+ devices, which include industry-leading capabilities such as 32g transceivers, peripheral component interconnect express (pcie) gen 4 integrated cores, and ultraram on-chip memory technology, provide the required performance and integration needed for next generation data center, 400g and terabit wireline, test and measurement, and aerospace and defense applications. 6 table of contents ultrascale product families these devices deliver an asic-class advantage, based on the ultrascale architecture and utilizing tsmc's 20soc gate density process. these devices deliver next generation routing, asic-like clocking, and enhancements to logic and fabric to eliminate interconnect bottlenecks while supporting consistent device utilization. kintex ultrascale fpgas represent the company's second generation mid-range fpga family. these devices offer high price-performance at the lowest power. kintex ultrascale devices are designed to meet the requirements for the growing number of key applications including next generation wireline and wireless communications and ultra-high definition displays and equipment. virtex ultrascale devices provide advanced levels of performance, system integration and bandwidth on a single chip. the largest family member delivers 4.4m logic cells, more than doubling xilinx's industry's highest capacity device and delivering 50m equivalent asic gates. virtex ultrascale devices are expected to be used in the industry's most challenging applications including: 400g communication applications, high performance computing, surveillance and reconnaissance systems, and asic emulation and prototyping. 28nm product families the 28nm product families are fabricated on a high-k metal gate, high performance and low power 28nm process technology. these product families are based on a scalable and optimized architecture, which enables design, ip portability and re-use across all families as well as provides designers the ability to achieve the appropriate combination of i/o support, performance, feature quantities, packaging and power consumption to address a wide range of applications. the 28nm product families include: virtex-7 fpgas, including 3d ics, are optimized for applications requiring the highest capacity, performance, dsp and serial connectivity with transceivers operating up to 28g. target applications include 400g and 100g line cards, high-performance computing and test and measurement applications. kintex-7 fpgas represent xilinx's first mid-range fpga family. these devices maximize price-performance and performance per watt. target applications include wireless lte infrastructure, video display technology and medical imaging. artix-7 fpgas offer the lowest power and system cost at higher performance than alternative high volume fpgas. these devices are targeted to high volume applications such as handheld portable ultrasound devices, multi-function printers and software defined radios. the zynq-7000 family is the first family of xilinx programmable socs. this new class of product combines an industry-standard arm dual-core cortex-a9 mpcore processing system with xilinx 28nm architecture. there are five devices in the zynq-7000 soc family that allow designers to target cost sensitive as well as high-performance applications from a single platform using industry-standard tools. these devices are designed to enable incremental market opportunities in applications such as industrial motor control, driver assistance and smart surveillance systems, and smart heterogeneous wireless networks. spartan-7 fpgas offer the best performance and power consumption in their class, along with small form factor packaging to meet the most stringent requirements. these devices are ideally suited for industrial, consumer, and automotive applications including any-to-any connectivity, sensor fusion, and embedded vision. 40nm and 45nm product families the virtex-6 fpga family consists of 13 devices and is the sixth generation in the virtex series of fpgas. virtex-6 fpgas are fabricated on a high-performance 40nm process technology. there are three virtex-6 families, and each is optimized to deliver different feature mixes to address a variety of markets. the spartan-6 fpga family, is fabricated on a low-power 45nm process technology. the spartan-6 family is the pld industry's only 45nm high-volume fpga family, consisting of 11 devices in two product families. other product families prior generation virtex families include virtex-5, virtex-4, virtex-ii pro, virtex-ii and the original virtex family. spartan family fpgas include spartan-3 fpgas, the spartan-3e family and the spartan-3a family. prior generation spartan families include spartan-iie, spartan-ii, spartan xl and the original spartan family. 7 table of contents cplds operate on the lowest end of the programmable logic density spectrum. cplds are single-chip, nonvolatile solutions characterized by instant-on and universal interconnect. cplds combine the advantages of ultra-low power consumption with the benefits of high performance and low cost. prior generations of cplds include the coolrunner and xc9500 product families. easypath fpgas easypath fpgas offer customers a fast, simple method of cost-reducing fpga designs. easypath fpgas use the same production masks and fabrication process as standard fpgas and are tested to a specific customer application to improve yield and lower costs. as a result, easypath fpgas provide customers with significant cost reduction when compared to the standard fpga devices without the conversion risk, engineering effort, or the additional time required to move to an asic. the latest generation of easypath fpgas and easypath-7 fpgas provide lower total product cost of ownership for cost-reducing high performance fpgas. design platforms and services programmable platforms we offer three types of programmable platforms that support our customers' designs and reduce their development efforts: the base platform is the delivery vehicle for all of our new silicon offerings used to develop and run customer-specific software applications and hardware designs. released at launch, the base platform is comprised of: fpga silicon; vivado design suite design environment; integration support for optional third-party synthesis, simulation and signal integrity tools; reference designs; development boards and ip. the domain-specific platform targets one of the three primary xilinx fpga user profiles: the embedded processing developer; the dsp developer; or the logic/connectivity developer. it accomplishes this by augmenting the base platform with a targeted set of integrated technologies, including: higher-level design methodologies and tools; domain-specific ip including embedded, mixed signal, video, dsp and connectivity; domain-specific development hardware and reference designs; and operating systems and software. the market-specific platform enables software or hardware developers to quickly build and run their specific application or solution. built for specific markets such as automotive, consumer, aerospace and defense, communications, audio, video and broadcast, industrial, or scientific and medical, the market-specific platform integrates both the base and domain-specific platforms with higher targeted applications elements such as ip, reference designs and boards optimized for a particular market. design tools to accommodate the various design methodologies and design flows employed by the wide range of our customers' user profiles such as system designers, algorithm designers, software coders and logic designers, we provide the appropriate design environment tailored to each user profile for design creation, design implementation and design verification. in april 2012, xilinx introduced the next-generation vivado design suite designed to improve developer productivity resulting in faster design integration and implementation. the vivado design suite hallmarks include an easy-to-use ip-centric design flow and significant improvement in run times. the standards-based vivado tools include high-level synthesis to provide a more direct flow in retargeting dsps and general purpose processor designs into our fpgas, ip integrator to rapidly stitch together cores at higher levels of abstraction, and a new analytical place-and-route engine which significantly improves run times. the vivado design suite supports xilinx 7 series fpgas and zynq-7000, our programmable socs, as well as the ultrascale and ultrascale+ product generations. the previous generation tool suite, the ise design suite, supports xilinx 7 series fpgas, programmable socs and all previous generation fpgas, enabling customers to transition to the vivado design suite when the timing is right for their design needs. both the vivado design suite and ise design suite operate with a wide range of third-party electronic design automation software point-tools offerings. in early 2015, xilinx also introduced the sdx development environment, which has significantly expanded the xilinx user base to include the broad community of systems and software engineers in both existing and new markets. this innovative development environment also enables end user and third party platform developers to rapidly define, integrate and verify system level solutions and provide their end customers with a customized programming environment. the sdx family includes the sdnet environment, which enables the easy creation of high-performance packet processing systems with high level user defined specifications and compilation to highly optimized fpgas; the sdaccel environment for opencl, c and c++ software designers focusing on data center acceleration applications; and the sdsoc environment for all programmable socs and mpsocs. 8 table of contents intellectual property xilinx and various third parties offer hundreds of no charge and fee-bearing ip core licenses covering ethernet, memory controllers, interlaken and pcie interfaces, as well as an abundance of domain-specific ip in the areas of embedded, dsp and connectivity, and market-specific ip cores. in addition, our products and technology leverage industry standards such as arm amba axi-4 interconnect technology, ip-xact and ieee p1735 encryption to facilitate plug-and-play fpga design and take advantage of the large ecosystem of arm ip developers. development boards, kits and configuration products in addition to the broad selection of legacy development boards presently offered, we have introduced a new unified board strategy that enables the creation of a standardized and coordinated set of base boards available both from xilinx and our ecosystem vendors, all utilizing the industry-standard extensions that enable customization for market specific applications. adopting this standard for all of our base boards enables the creation of a scalable and extensible delivery mechanism for all xilinx programmable platforms. we also offer comprehensive development kits including hardware, design tools, ip and reference designs that are designed to streamline and accelerate the development of domain-specific and market-specific applications. finally, xilinx offers a range of configuration products including one-time programmable and in-system programmable storage devices to configure xilinx fpgas. these programmable read-only memory (prom) products support all of our fpga devices. third-party alliances xilinx and certain third parties have developed and continue to offer a robust ecosystem of ip, boards, tools, services and support through the xilinx alliance program. xilinx also works with these third parties to promote our programmable platforms through third-party tools, ip, software, boards and design services. in may of 2016, xilinx led the formation of the very broad cache coherent interconnect acceleration (ccix) consortium with the singular goal of bringing a high performance, open acceleration framework to the data center market. as of march of 2017, this consortium had approximately 30 members, ranging from silicon providers to a rich ecosystem of partners including design, verification, software and system vendors. engineering services xilinx engineering services provide customers with engineering resources to augment their design teams and to provide expert design-specific advice. xilinx tailors its engineering services to the needs of its customers, ranging from hands-on training to full design creation and implementation. research and development our research and development (r&amp;d) activities are primarily directed towards the design of new ics and the development of new software design automation tools for hardware and embedded software, the design of logic ip, the adoption of advanced semiconductor manufacturing processes for ongoing cost reductions, performance and signal integrity improvements and lowering pld power consumption. as a result of our r&amp;d efforts, we have introduced a number of new products during the past several years including the virtex, kintex and zynq ultrascale+, virtex &amp; kintex ultrascale and artix, kintex, virtex &amp; zynq 7 series program families. we have enhanced our ip core offerings and introduced our next generation software design suite (vivado) optimized for sdsoc, sdaccel and sdnet application development. through process technology collaboration with our foundry suppliers along with strategic investment in eda tools and improved design techniques, we have been the first pld company to ship 45nm high-volume, 28nm, 20nm and 16nm fpga devices. additionally, our investment in r&amp;d has allowed us to ship the industry's first 28nm and 16nm devices with embedded arm technology as well as the industry's first 3d ic devices on the 28nm and 20nm process nodes. we believe technical leadership and innovation are essential to our future success, and we continue to invest in our technology. in fiscal 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , our r&amp;d expenses were $601.4 million , $533.9 million and $525.7 million , respectively. 9 table of contents sales and distribution we sell our products to oems, ems and to electronic components distributors who resell these products to oems and ems. we use a dedicated global sales and marketing organization, and to a lesser extent, independent sales representatives, to generate sales. in general, we focus our direct demand creation efforts on a limited number of key accounts. distributors and independent sales representatives create demand within the balance of our customer base in defined territories. distributors also provide inventory, value-added services and logistics for a wide range of our oem customers. whether xilinx, the distributor, or the independent sales representative identifies the sales opportunity, a local distributor will process and fulfill the majority of all customer orders. in such situations, distributors are the sellers of the products and as such they bear most legal and financial risks generally related to the sale of commercial goods, including such risks as credit loss, inventory shrinkage, theft and foreign currency fluctuations, but excluding certain indemnity and warranty liabilities. in accordance with our distribution agreements and industry practice, we have granted our authorized distributors the contractual right to return certain amounts of unsold product on a periodic basis and also receive price adjustments for unsold product in the case of a change in list prices subsequent to the initial sale. revenue recognition on shipments to distributors worldwide is deferred until the products are sold to the distributors' end customers. avnet, inc. (avnet) distributes the substantial majority of our products worldwide. as of april 1, 2017 and april 2, 2016 , avnet accounted for 59% and 75% , respectively, of our total net accounts receivable. resale of product through avnet accounted for 44% , 50% and 43% of our worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. we also use other regional distributors throughout the world. we believe distributors provide a cost-effective means of reaching a broad range of customers while providing efficient logistics services. since plds are standard products, they do not carry many of the inventory risks posed by asics. from time to time, we may add or terminate distributors in specific geographies, or move customers to a direct support or fulfillment model as we deem appropriate given our strategies, the level of distributor business activity and distributor performance and financial condition. see "note 2. summary of significant accounting policies and concentrations of risk" to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. "financial statements and supplementary data," for information about concentrations of credit risk and "note 15. segment information" for information about our revenues from external customers and domestic and international operations. no end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues in fiscal 2017 , 2016 or 2015 . backlog as of april 1, 2017 , our backlog from oem customers and backlog from end customers reported by our distributors scheduled for delivery within the next three months was $356.0 million, compared to $289.0 million as of april 2, 2016 . orders from end customers to our distributors are subject to changes in delivery schedules or to cancellation without significant penalty. as a result, backlog from both oem customers and end customers reported by our distributors as of any particular period may not be a reliable indicator of revenue for any future period. wafer fabrication as a fabless semiconductor company, we do not manufacture wafers used for our ic products or proms. rather, we purchase our wafers from independent foundries including tsmc, united microelectronics corporation (umc) and samsung electronics co., ltd. (samsung). tsmc manufactures the wafers for our newest products. precise terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations with each wafer foundry. our strategy is to focus our resources on market development and creating new ics and software design tools rather than on wafer fabrication. we continuously evaluate opportunities to enhance foundry relationships and/or obtain additional capacity from our main suppliers as well as other suppliers of wafers manufactured with leading-edge process technologies, and we adjust loadings at particular foundries to meet our business needs. sort, assembly and test wafers are sorted by the foundry or independent sort subcontractors. sorted die are assembled by subcontractors. during the assembly process, the wafers are separated into individual die, which are then assembled into various package types. following 10 table of contents assembly, the packaged units are generally tested by independent test subcontractors or by xilinx personnel. we purchase most of our assembly services from siliconware precision industries ltd. and most of our test services from king yuan electronics company in taiwan. quality certification xilinx has achieved and currently maintains quality management system certification to tl9000/iso9001 for our facilities in san jose, california; longmont, colorado; singapore; and hyderabad, india. in addition, xilinx achieved and currently maintains iso 14001 and ohsas 18001 environmental health and safety management system certifications in the san jose and singapore locations. intellectual property and licenses while our various proprietary intellectual property rights (including patents, copyrights, trade secrets, and trademarks) are important to our success, we believe our business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. as of april 1, 2017 , we held over 4,000 issued patents, which vary in duration, and over 500 pending patent applications relating to our proprietary technology in various jurisdictions around the world. we maintain an active program of filing for additional patents in the areas of, but not limited to, circuits, software, ic architecture, ip cores, system design, testing methodologies and other technologies relating to our products and business. we licensed portions of our patent portfolio to certain external parties and obtained patent licenses from certain third-parties as well. we have acquired various licenses from third parties to certain technologies that are implemented in ip cores or embedded in our devices, such as processors. these licenses support our continuing ability to make and sell our products. we have also acquired various licenses to certain third-party proprietary software, open-source software, and related technologies, such as compilers, for our design tools. continued use of such software and technology is important to the operation of the design tools upon which customers depend. we maintain the xilinx trade name and trademarks, including the following trademarks that are registered in the u.s. and other countries: xilinx, the xilinx logo, artix, coolrunner, ise, kintex, spartan, virtex, vivado, and zynq. maintaining these trademarks, and the goodwill associated with them, is important to our business. we have also obtained the rights to use certain trademarks owned by consortiums and other trademark owners that are related to our products and business. we intend to continue to protect our intellectual property vigorously. we believe that failure to enforce our intellectual property rights or failure to protect our trade secrets effectively could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we incurred, and in the future we may continue to incur, litigation expenses to defend against claims of infringement and to enforce our intellectual property rights against third parties. however, any such litigation may or may not be successful. corporate responsibility xilinx places a high level of importance on corporate responsibility. through senior-level sponsorship, regular environmental, health and safety assessments and company-wide performance targets, we strive to achieve a culture that emphasizes contribution to local and global communities through a number of key initiatives: company we strive to meet or exceed industry and regulatory standards for ethical business practices, product responsibility, and supplier management. all of xilinx's directors, officers and employees are required to comply not only with the letter of the laws, rules and regulations that govern the conduct of our business, but also with the spirit of those laws. environment we continually monitor regulatory requirement and resource trends in order to identify, manage and control activities that have an environmental impact. we focus on the conservations of energy and natural resource, reducing the solid and chemical waste of our operations, avoiding and preventing pollution and minimizing our overall environmental impact with regards to the communities around us and consistent with global climate change efforts. 11 table of contents community we are committed to growing strategic relationships with a wide range of local organizations and programs that are designed to develop and strengthen communities located around the world. xilinx develops local community relationships at key sites through funding and involvement that encourages active participation, teamwork, and volunteerism. xilinx supports opportunities initiated by its employees and that involve participation and empowerment of its employees. we are committed to charitable giving programs that work towards systemic change and measurable results. workplace we provide a safe and healthy work environment for all employees. employee diversity and inclusion are embraced and opportunities for training, growth, and advancement are strongly encouraged. the xilinx code of social responsibility outlines standards to ensure that working conditions at xilinx are safe and that workers are treated with respect, fairness and dignity. employees as of april 1, 2017 , we had 3,831 employees compared to 3,458 as of the end of the prior fiscal year. none of our employees are represented by a labor union. we have not experienced any work stoppages and believe we maintain good employee relations. executive officers of the registrant certain information regarding the executive officers and persons chosen to become executive officers of xilinx as of may 15, 2017 is set forth below: name age position moshe n. gavrielov 62 president and chief executive officer (ceo) lorenzo a. flores 52 senior vice president and chief financial officer (cfo) steven l. glaser 55 senior vice president, corporate strategy and marketing scott r. hover-smoot 62 senior vice president, general counsel and secretary victor peng 57 chief operating officer krishna rangasayee 48 executive vice president of global sales vincent l. tong 55 executive vice president, global operations and quality there are no family relationships among the executive officers of the company or the board of directors. moshe n. gavrielov joined the company in january 2008 as president and ceo and was appointed to the board of directors in february 2008. prior to joining the company, mr. gavrielov served at cadence design systems, inc., an electronic design automation company, as executive vice president and general manager of the verification division from april 2005 through november 2007. mr. gavrielov served as ceo of verisity ltd., an electronic design automation company, from march 1998 to april 2005 before its acquisition by cadence design systems, inc. prior to joining verisity, mr. gavrielov spent nearly 10 years at lsi corporation (formerly lsi logic corporation), a semiconductor manufacturer, in a variety of executive management positions, including executive vice president of the products group, senior vice president and general manager of international marketing and sales and senior vice president and general manager of lsi logic europe plc. additionally, mr. gavrielov held various engineering and engineering management positions at digital equipment corporation and national semiconductor corporation. lorenzo a. flores joined the company in september 2008 and currently serves as senior vice president and cfo, a position he has held since may 2016. from july 2012 to may 2016, mr. flores served as corporate vice president of finance and corporate controller. from september 2008 to june 2012 he served as vice president of finance and corporate controller. prior to joining the company, mr. flores was assistant vice president of financial planning and analysis at cognizant technology solutions, served as cfo of a venture funded startup, and spent ten years at intel corporation, a semiconductor chip maker, serving in a variety of positions, including controller, intel architecture cpus and controller, telecommunications and embedded group. 12 table of contents steven l. glaser joined the company in january 2011 and currently serves as senior vice president, corporate strategy and marketing, a position he has held since april 2012. from january 2011 to april 2012, he served as corporate vice president, strategic planning. prior to joining the company, mr. glaser held various senior positions in cadence design systems between april 2005 and january 2011, including corporate vice president of strategic development and corporate vice president of marketing for the verification division. from june 2003 to april 2005, he served as senior vice president of marketing at verisity ltd. prior to that, mr. glaser held various senior business and technical positions at companies in the semiconductor and electronic design automation industries. scott r. hover-smoot joined the company in october 2007 and currently serves as senior vice president, general counsel and secretary, a position he has held since may 2014. from october 2007 to may 2014, mr. hover-smoot served as corporate vice president, general counsel and secretary. from november 2001 to october 2007, mr. hover-smoot served as regional counsel and director of legal operations with tsmc, an independent semiconductor foundry. he served as vice president and general counsel of california micro devices corporation, a provider of application-specific protection devices and display electronics devices from june 1994 to november 2001. prior to joining california micro devices corporation, mr. hover-smoot spent over 20 years working in law firms including berliner-cohen, flehr, hohbach, test, albritton &amp; herbert and lyon &amp; lyon. victor peng joined the company in april 2008 and currently serves as chief operating officer, a position he has held since april 2017. from july 2014 to april 2017, he served as executive vice president and general manager of products. from may 2013 through april 2014, mr. peng served as senior vice president and general manager of the programmable platforms group. from may 2012 through april 2013, he served as senior vice president of the programmable platforms group. from november 2008 through april 2012, he served as senior vice president of the programmable platforms development group. prior to joining the company, mr. peng served as corporate vice president, graphics products group at advanced micro devices (amd), a provider of processing solutions, from november 2005 to april 2008. prior to joining amd, mr. peng served in a variety of executive engineering positions at companies in the semiconductor and processor industries. krishna rangasayee joined the company in july 1999 and currently serves as executive vice president of global sales, a position he has held since april 2017. from january 2015 to april 2017, mr. rangasayee served as senior vice president and general manager, global sales and markets. from october 2013 to january 2015, he served as senior vice president and general manager, market segments and communications business unit. from april 2012 to october 2013, he served as senior vice president and general manager, communications business unit. prior to that, he served in a number of key roles, including as corporate vice president and general manager, communications unit, vice president of strategic planning and senior director of vertical markets and partnerships. prior to joining xilinx, mr. rangasayee held various positions at altera, a provider of programmable logic solutions, and cypress semiconductor, a semiconductor company. vincent l. tong joined the company in may 1990 and currently serves as executive vice president, global operations &amp; quality, a position he has held since may 2016. from january 2015 to may 2016, mr. tong served as senior vice president, global operations and quality. he also has served as executive leader, asia pacific since october 2011. mr. tong previously served as senior vice president, worldwide quality and new product introductions from june 2008 to january 2015. he has also served as vice president, worldwide quality and reliability from august 2006 to june 2008 and prior to that as vice president of product technology from may 2001 to july 2006. prior to joining the company, mr. tong served in a variety of engineering and management positions at monolithic memories, a producer of logic devices, and amd. he holds seven u.s. patents. additional information we make available, via a link through our investor relations website located at www.investor.xilinx.com, access to our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the u.s. securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (exchange act) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission (sec). all such filings on our investor relations website are available free of charge. printed copies of these documents are also available to stockholders without charge, upon written request directed to xilinx, inc., attn: investor relations, 2100 logic drive, san jose, ca 95124. further, a copy of this annual report on form 10-k is located at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room can be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings at http://www.sec.gov. the content on any website referred to in this filing is not incorporated by reference into this filing unless expressly noted otherwise. additional information required by this item 1 is incorporated by reference to the section captioned "net revenues - net revenues by geography" in item 7. "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and to "note 13 table of contents 15. segment information" to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. "financial statements and supplementary data." this annual report includes trademarks and service marks of xilinx and other companies that are unregistered and registered in the u.s. and other countries. item 1a. risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks to the company. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company, or that the company's management currently deems immaterial, also may impair its business operations. if any of the risks described below were to occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. our success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products and failure to do so would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. our success depends in large part on our ability to develop and introduce new products that address customer requirements and compete effectively on the basis of price, density, functionality, power consumption and performance. consolidation in our industry may increasingly mean that our competitors have greater resources, or other synergies, that provide them with a competitive advantage in those regards. the success of new product introductions is dependent upon several factors, including: timely completion of new product designs; ability to generate new design opportunities and design wins; availability of specialized field application engineering resources supporting demand creation and customer adoption of new products; ability to utilize advanced manufacturing process technologies on circuit geometries of 28nm and smaller; achieving acceptable yields; ability to obtain adequate production capacity from our wafer foundries and assembly and test subcontractors; ability to obtain advanced packaging; availability of supporting software design tools; utilization of predefined ip logic; customer acceptance of advanced features in our new products; ability of our customers to complete their product designs and bring them to market; and market acceptance of our customers' products. our product development efforts may not be successful, our new products may not achieve industry acceptance and we may not achieve the necessary volume of production that would lead to further per unit cost reductions. revenues relating to our mature products are expected to decline in the future, which is normal for our product life cycles. as a result, we may be increasingly dependent on revenues derived from design wins for our newer products as well as anticipated cost reductions in the manufacture of our current products. we rely primarily on obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture of existing products, and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and other price/performance factors that enable us to increase revenues while maintaining consistent margins. to the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner, or to the extent that our products do not achieve market acceptance at prices with higher margins, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we rely on independent foundries for the manufacture of all of our products and a manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could adversely affect our operations. most of our wafers are manufactured in taiwan by umc and, for our newest products, by tsmc. in addition, we also have wafers manufactured in south korea by samsung electronics co., ltd. terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations between us and these wafer foundries, which usually result in short-term agreements that do not provide for long-term supply or allocation commitments. we are dependent on these foundries to supply the substantial majority of our wafers. we rely on umc, tsmc and our other foundries to produce wafers with competitive performance attributes. therefore, the foundries, particularly tsmc who manufactures our newest products, must be able to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies and increased wafer sizes, produce wafers at acceptable yields and deliver them in a timely manner. furthermore, we cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our wafers will offer us competitive pricing terms or other commercial terms important to our business. 14 table of contents we cannot guarantee that our foundries will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies or difficulties due to limitations of new and existing process technologies. furthermore, we cannot guarantee the foundries will be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products or that they will continue to manufacture a product for the full life of the product. in addition, weak economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of the foundries and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us. for example, we may experience supply shortages due to the difficulties foundries may encounter if they must rapidly increase their production capacities from low utilization levels to high utilization levels because of an unexpected increase in demand. we may also experience supply shortages due to very strong demand for our products and a surge in demand for semiconductors in general, which may lead to tightening of foundry capacity across the industry. the insolvency of a foundry or any significant manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity would disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. earthquakes and other natural disasters could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the independent foundries, upon which we rely to manufacture our products, as well as our california and singapore facilities, are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. umc's and tsmc's foundries in taiwan and our assembly and test partners in other regions as well as many of our operations in california are centered in areas that have been seismically active in the recent past and some areas have been affected by other natural disasters such as typhoons. any catastrophic event in these locations will disrupt our operations, including our manufacturing activities, and our insurance may not cover losses resulting from such disruptions of our operations. this type of disruption could result in our inability to manufacture or ship products, thereby materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. for example, as a result of the march 2011 earthquake in japan, production at the seiko foundry at sakata was halted temporarily, impacting production of some of our older devices. in addition, suppliers of wafers and substrates were forced to halt production temporarily. disruption of operations at these foundries for any reason, including other natural disasters such as typhoons, tsunamis, volcano eruptions, fires or floods, as well as disruptions in access to adequate supplies of electricity, natural gas or water could cause delays in shipments of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. furthermore, natural disasters can also indirectly impact us. for example, our customers' supply of other complimentary products may be disrupted by a natural disaster and may cause them to delay orders of our products. more vertically-integrated competitors may be less exposed to some or all of these and other risks. general negative economic conditions and any related deterioration in the global business environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. as a result of the 2008 global financial crisis, global consumer confidence eroded amidst concerns over declining asset values, inflation, volatility in energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, rising unemployment, and the stability and solvency of financial institutions, financial markets, businesses and sovereign nations, among other concerns. these concerns slowed global economic growth and resulted in recessions in numerous countries, including many of those in north america, europe and asia. the financial condition of certain sovereign nations, particularly in europe, is of continuing concern as the sovereign debt crisis remains unresolved. these weak economic conditions resulted in reduced customer demand and had a negative impact on our results of operations in some parts of fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2013. if weak economic conditions return, there may be a number of negative effects on our business, including customers or potential customers reducing or delaying orders, the insolvency of key suppliers, potentially causing production delays, the inability of customers to obtain credit, and the insolvency of one or more customers. any of these effects could impact our ability to effectively manage inventory levels and collect receivables and ultimately decrease our net revenues and profitability. the semiconductor industry is characterized by cyclical market patterns and a significant industry downturn could adversely affect our operating results. the semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and our financial performance has been affected by downturns in the industry. down cycles are generally characterized by price erosion and weaker demand for our products. weaker demand for our products resulting from economic conditions in the end markets we serve and reduced capital spending by our customers can result, and in the past has resulted, in excess and obsolete inventories and corresponding inventory write-downs. we attempt to identify changes in market conditions as soon as possible; however, the dynamics of the market in which we operate make prediction of and timely reaction to such events difficult. due to these and other factors, our past results are not reliable predictors of our future results. 15 table of contents the nature of our business makes our revenues difficult to predict which could have an adverse impact on our business. in addition to the challenging market conditions we may face, we have limited visibility into the demand for our products, particularly new products, because demand for our products depends upon our products being designed into our end customers' products and those products achieving market acceptance. due to the complexity of our customers' designs, the design to volume production process for our customers requires a substantial amount of time, frequently longer than a year. in addition to this, other factors may affect our end customers' demand for our products, including, but not limited to, end customer program delays and the ability of end customers to secure other complementary products. we also are dependent upon "turns," orders received and turned for shipment in the same quarter. these factors make it difficult for us to forecast future sales and project quarterly revenues. the difficulty in forecasting future sales impairs our ability to project our inventory requirements, which could result, and in the past has resulted, in inventory write-downs or failure to meet customer product demands in a timely manner. in addition, difficulty in forecasting revenues compromises our ability to provide forward-looking revenue and earnings guidance. if we are not able to compete successfully in our industry, our financial results and future prospects will be adversely affected. our plds compete in the ic industry, an industry that is intensely competitive, continues to consolidate, and is characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion. we expect increased competition from our primary pld competitors, intel, lattice and microsemi, and from new market entrants. in addition, competition from the asic market and from the assp market continues. we believe that important competitive factors in the logic ic industry include: product pricing; time-to-market; product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density; field upgradeability; adaptability of products to specific applications; ease of use and functionality of software design tools; availability and functionality of predefined ip logic; inventory and supply chain management; access to leading-edge process technology and assembly capacity; ability to provide timely customer service and support; and access to advanced packaging technology. our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high-volume, low-cost and low-power applications as well as high-performance, high-density applications. however, we may not be successful in executing this strategy. in addition, we anticipate continued pressure from our customers to reduce prices, which may outpace our ability to lower the cost for established products. other competitors include manufacturers of: high-density programmable logic products characterized by fpga type architectures; high-volume and low-cost fpgas as programmable replacements for asics and assps; asics and assps with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; high-speed, low-density complex programmable logic devices; high-performance digital signal processing devices; products with embedded processors; products with embedded multi-gigabit transceivers; and other new or emerging programmable logic products. several companies have introduced products that compete with ours or have announced their intention to sell pld products. to the extent that our efforts to compete are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the benefits of programmable logic have attracted a number of competitors to this segment. we recognize that different applications require different programmable technologies, and we are developing architectures, processes and products to meet these varying customer needs. recognizing the increasing importance of standard software solutions, we have developed common software design tools that support the full range of our ic products. we believe that automation and ease of design are significant competitive factors in this segment. 16 table of contents we could also face competition from our licensees. in the past we have granted limited rights to other companies with respect to certain aspects of our older technology, and we may do so in the future. granting such rights may enable these companies to manufacture and market products that may be competitive with some of our older products. increased costs of wafers and materials, or shortages in wafers and materials, could adversely impact our gross margins and lead to reduced revenues. if greater demand for wafers is not offset by an increase in foundry capacity, market demand for wafers or production and assembly materials increases, or if a supplier of our wafers or other materials ceases or suspends operations, our supply of wafers and other materials could become limited. such shortages raise the likelihood of potential wafer price increases, wafer shortages or shortages in materials at production and test facilities, resulting in potential inability to address customer product demands in a timely manner. for example, when certain suppliers were forced to temporarily halt production as the result of a natural disaster, this resulted in a tightening of supply for those materials. such shortages of wafers and materials as well as increases in wafer or materials prices could adversely affect our gross margins and would adversely affect our ability to meet customer demands and lead to reduced revenue. we depend on distributors, primarily avnet, to generate a significant portion of our sales and complete order fulfillment. resale of product through avnet accounted for 44% of our worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2017 and as of april 1, 2017 , avnet accounted for 59% of our total net accounts receivable. any adverse change to our relationship with avnet or our remaining distributors could have a material impact on our business. furthermore, if a key distributor materially defaults on a contract or otherwise fails to perform, our business and financial results would suffer. in addition, we are subject to concentrations of credit risk in our trade accounts receivable, which includes accounts of our distributors. a significant reduction of effort by a distributor to sell our products or a material change in our relationship with one or more distributors may reduce our access to certain end customers and adversely affect our ability to sell our products. in addition, the financial health of our distributors and our continuing relationships with them are important to our success. unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health of some of these distributors, particularly our smaller distributors. this could result in the insolvency of certain distributors, the inability of distributors to obtain credit to finance the purchase of our products, or cause distributors to delay payment of their obligations to us and increase our credit risk exposure. our business could be harmed if the financial health of these distributors impairs their performance and we are unable to secure alternate distributors. we are dependent on independent subcontractors for most of our assembly and test services, and unavailability or disruption of these services could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. we are dependent on subcontractors to provide semiconductor assembly, substrate, test and shipment services. any prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, any disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, delays in stabilizing manufacturing processes and ramping up volume for new products, transitions to new service providers or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands. in addition, unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of these subcontractors and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us. these factors would result in reduced net revenues and could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. a number of factors, including our inventory strategy, can impact our gross margins. a number of factors, including yield, wafer pricing, product mix, market acceptance of our new products, competitive pricing dynamics, licensing costs, geographic and/or market segment pricing strategies can cause our gross margins to fluctuate. in addition, forecasting our gross margins is difficult because a significant portion of our business is based on turns within the same quarter. while our overall inventory levels fluctuate over time, the inventory of newer product lines may be higher than other products due to a planned increase in safety stock in anticipation of future revenue growth. in the event demand does not materialize, we may be subject to incremental obsolescence costs. in addition, future product cost reductions could have an increased impact on our inventory valuation, which would then impact our operating results. 17 table of contents reductions in the average selling prices of our products could have a negative impact on our gross margins. the average selling prices of our products generally decline as the products mature. we seek to offset the decrease in selling prices through yield improvement, manufacturing cost reductions and increased unit sales. we also continue to develop higher value products or product features that increase, or slow the decline of, the average selling price of our products. however, there is no guarantee that our ongoing efforts will be successful or that they will keep pace with the decline in selling prices of our products, which could ultimately lead to a decline in revenues and have a negative effect on our gross margins. because of our international business and operations, we are vulnerable to the economic conditions of the countries in which we operate and currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. in addition to our u.s. operations, we also have significant international operations, including foreign sales offices to support our international customers and distributors, our regional headquarters in ireland and singapore and an r&amp;d site in india. our international operations have grown because we have established certain operations and administrative functions outside the u.s. sales and operations outside of the u.s. subject us to the risks associated with conducting business in foreign economic and regulatory environments. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in countries in which we do significant business or by changes in foreign currency exchange rates affecting those countries. we derive over one-half of our revenues from international sales, primarily in the asia pacific region, europe and japan. past economic weaknesses in these markets adversely affected revenues. sales to all direct oems and distributors are denominated in u.s. dollars. while the recent movements of the euro and yen exchange rates against the u.s. dollar had no material impact to our business, increased volatility could impact our european and japanese customers. currency instability and volatility and disruptions in the credit and capital markets including as a result of the united kingdom referendum on june 23, 2016, in which voters approved an exit from the european union (commonly referred to as "brexit") may increase credit risks for some of our customers and may impair our customers' ability to repay existing obligations. increased currency volatility could also positively or negatively impact our foreign-currency-denominated costs, assets and liabilities. in addition, any devaluation of the u.s. dollar relative to other foreign currencies may increase the operating expenses of our foreign subsidiaries adversely affecting our results of operations. furthermore, because we are increasingly dependent on the global economy, instability in worldwide economic environments occasioned, for example, directly or indirectly by political instability (such as due to brexit), terrorist activity, u.s. or other military actions, and international sanctions or other diplomatic actions (potentially including sanctions adopted or under consideration by the u.s. or european union with respect to russia or russian individuals or businesses), could adversely impact economic activity and lead to a contraction of capital spending by our customers generally or in specific regions. any or all of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. we are subject to the risks associated with conducting business operations outside of the u.s. which could adversely affect our business. in addition to international sales and support operations and development activities, we purchase our wafers from foreign foundries, have our commercial products assembled, packaged and tested by subcontractors located outside the u.s. and utilize third party warehouse operators to store and manage inventory levels for certain of our products. all of these activities are subject to the uncertainties associated with international business operations, including global laws and regulations, trade barriers, economic sanctions, tax regulations, import and export regulations, duties and tariffs and other trade restrictions, changes in trade policies, anti-corruption laws, foreign governmental regulations, potential vulnerability of and reduced protection for ip, longer receivable collection periods and disruptions or delays in production or shipments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. for example, on march 8, 2016, the u.s. department of commerce added zte corporation (zte) to its "entity list" and placed certain export restrictions on zte and its suppliers. although interim relief was provided until the u.s. department of commerce and zte reached a settlement effective on march 29, 2017, which removed zte from the "entity list," had zte not been removed, the restrictions could have caused a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. additional factors that could adversely affect us due to our international operations include rising oil prices and increased costs of natural resources. moreover, our financial condition and results of operations could be affected in the event of political conflicts or economic crises in countries where our main wafer providers, warehouses, end customers and contract manufacturers who provide assembly and test services worldwide, are located. adverse change to the circumstances or conditions of our international business operations, including instability and uncertainty as a result of brexit, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 18 table of contents we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and changes in credit rating and in the market values of our portfolio investments which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. our cash, short-term and long-term investments represent significant assets that may be subject to fluctuating or even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements, changes in credit rating and financial market conditions. global credit market disruptions and economic slowdown and uncertainty have in the past negatively impacted the values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities. the global credit and capital markets may again experience significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system, uncertainty related to global economic conditions and concerns regarding sovereign financial stability. therefore, there is a risk that we may incur other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments should credit market conditions deteriorate or the underlying assets fail to perform as anticipated. our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair values of our debt securities is judged to be other than temporary. furthermore, we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or financial market conditions. our failure to protect and defend our ip could impair our ability to compete effectively. we rely upon patent, copyright, trade secret, mask work and trademark laws to protect our ip. we cannot provide assurance that such ip rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, violated, circumvented or challenged. from time to time, third parties, including our competitors, have asserted against us patent, copyright and other ip rights to technologies that are important to us. third parties may attempt to misappropriate our ip through electronic or other means or assert infringement claims against our indemnities or us in the future. such assertions by third parties may result in costly litigation, indemnity claims or other legal actions, and we may not prevail in such matters or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. this could result in the loss of our ability to import and sell our products or require us to pay costly royalties to third parties in connection with sales of our products. any infringement claim, indemnification claim, or impairment or loss of use of our ip could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our ability to design and introduce new products in a timely manner is dependent upon third-party ip. in the design and development of new products and product enhancements, we rely on third-party intellectual property such as software development tools and hardware testing tools. furthermore, certain product features may rely on intellectual property acquired from third parties. the design requirements necessary to meet future consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from semiconductor products may exceed the capabilities of the third-party intellectual property or development tools that are available to us. if the third-party intellectual property that we use becomes unavailable or fails to produce designs that meet consumer demands, our business could be adversely affected. we rely on information technology (it) systems, and failure of these systems to function properly or unauthorized access to our systems could result in business disruption. we rely in part on various it systems to manage our operations, including financial reporting, and we regularly evaluate these systems and make changes to improve them as necessary. consequently, we periodically implement new, or upgrade or enhance existing, operational and it systems, procedures and controls. any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. these systems are also subject to power and telecommunication outages or other general system failures. failure of our it systems or difficulties in managing them could result in business disruption. we also may be subject to unauthorized access to our it systems through a security breach or cyber attack. we experience cyber attacks of varying degrees on an ongoing basis. in the past there have been attempts by third parties to penetrate and/or infect our network and systems with malicious software in an effort to gain access to our network and systems. third parties may continue to attempt to fraudulently induce employees, users, or customers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our network systems. we seek to detect and investigate any security incidents and prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to and sabotage our systems change frequently, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate protections. our business could be significantly harmed, and we could be subject to third party claims in the event of such a security breach. our it systems are also linked to the it systems of customers, suppliers, and distribution partners and those links provide critical information we use to manage our operations, including information used for financial reporting. the it systems of our customers, suppliers, and distribution partners and the links between our it systems and our customers are subject to the same risks as that of our it systems. 19 table of contents if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls, our stock price could be adversely affected. we are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (the act). our controls necessary for continued compliance with the act may not operate effectively at all times and may result in a material weakness disclosure. the identification of material weaknesses in internal control, if any, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements and could cause investors to lose confidence and our stock price to drop. we compete with others to attract and retain key personnel, and any loss of, or inability to attract, such personnel would harm us. we depend on the efforts and abilities of certain key members of management and other technical personnel. our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to retain such personnel and attract and retain other highly qualified personnel, particularly product engineers. competition for such personnel is intense and we may not be successful in hiring or retaining new or existing qualified personnel. changes to the u.s. immigration laws may also impact the availability of qualified personnel. from time to time we have effected restructurings which eliminate a number of positions. even if such personnel are not directly affected by the restructuring effort, such terminations can have a negative impact on morale and our ability to attract and hire new qualified personnel in the future. if we lose existing qualified personnel or are unable to hire new qualified personnel, as needed, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. unfavorable results of legal proceedings could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. from time to time we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business. the amount of damages alleged in certain legal claims may be significant. for example, in december 2013, we entered into a settlement and license agreement with pact xpp technologies, ag (pact) in which the parties agreed to dismiss with prejudice all outstanding patent litigation among us, avnet and pact. as part of the settlement, we agreed to pay pact a lump sum of $33.5 million. certain other claims involving the company are not yet resolved, including those that are discussed under "item 3. legal proceedings" included in part i of this form 10-k, and additional claims may arise in the future. results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. regardless of its merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention and we may enter into material settlements to avoid these risks. should we fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against us in the same reporting period, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that would materially and adversely affect a portion of our business and might materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. our products could have defects which could result in reduced revenues and claims against us. we develop complex and evolving products that include both hardware and software. despite our testing efforts and those of our subcontractors, defects may be found in existing or new products. these defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair or replacement costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with customers. subject to certain terms and conditions, we have agreed to compensate certain customers for limited specified costs they actually incur in the event our hardware products experience epidemic failure. as a result, epidemic failure and other performance problems could result in claims against us, the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and would likely harm our business. our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. in addition, we could be subject to product liability claims. a product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly to defend. product liability risks are particularly significant with respect to aerospace, automotive and medical applications because of the risk of serious harm to users of these products. any product liability claim, whether or not determined in our favor, could result in significant expense, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and harm our business. 20 table of contents in preparing our financial statements, we make good faith estimates and judgments that may change or turn out to be erroneous. in preparing our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s., we must make estimates and judgments in applying our most critical accounting policies. those estimates and judgments have a significant impact on the results we report in our consolidated financial statements. the most difficult estimates and subjective judgments that we make concern valuation of marketable and non-marketable securities, revenue recognition, inventories, long-lived assets including acquisition-related intangibles, goodwill, taxes and stock-based compensation. we base our estimates on historical experience, input from outside experts and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. we also have other key accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult, but which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial reporting. actual results may differ materially from these estimates. if these estimates or their related assumptions change, our operating results for the periods in which we revise our estimates or assumptions could be adversely and perhaps materially affected. our failure to comply with the requirements of the export administration regulations (ear) and the international traffic and arms regulations (itar) could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our fpgas and related technologies are subject to ear, which are administered by the u.s. department of commerce. in addition, we may, from time to time, receive technical data from third parties that is subject to the itar, which are administered by the u.s. department of state. ear and itar govern the export and re-export of these fpgas, the transfer of related technologies, whether in the u.s. or abroad, and the provision of services. we are required to maintain an internal compliance program and security infrastructure to meet ear and itar requirements. an inability to obtain the required export licenses, or to predict when they will be granted, increases the difficulties of forecasting shipments. in addition, security or compliance program failures that could result in penalties or a loss of export privileges, as well as stringent licensing restrictions that may make our products less attractive to overseas customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. our inability to effectively control the sale of our products on the gray market could have a material adverse effect on us. we market and sell our products directly to oems and through authorized third-party distributors which helps to ensure that products delivered to our customers are authentic and properly handled. from time to time, customers may purchase products bearing our name from the unauthorized "gray market." these parts may be counterfeit, salvaged or re-marked parts, or parts that have been altered, mishandled, or damaged. gray market products result in shadow inventory that is not visible to us, thus making it difficult to forecast supply or demand. also, when gray market products enter the market, we and our authorized distributors may compete with brokers of these discounted products, which can adversely affect demand for our products and negatively impact our margins. in addition, our reputation with customers may be negatively impacted when gray market products bearing our name fail or are found to be substandard. the conflict minerals provisions of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act could result in additional costs and liabilities. in accordance with the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, the sec established disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use "conflict" minerals mined from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries in their products, regardless of whether such products are manufactured by third parties. these requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of our semiconductor products. the costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements include those for due diligence in regard to the sources of any conflict minerals used in our products, remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. we may face reputational challenges if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all minerals used in our products through the due diligence process we implement. moreover, we may encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products are certified as conflict free. 21 table of contents exposure to greater than anticipated income tax liabilities, changes in tax rules and regulations, changes in interpretation of tax rules and regulations, or unfavorable assessments from tax audits could affect our effective tax rates, financial condition and results of operations. we are a u.s.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple u.s. and foreign tax jurisdictions. our income tax obligations could be affected by many factors, including but not limited to changes to our corporate operating structure, intercompany arrangements and tax planning strategies. a significant portion of our earnings are earned by our subsidiaries outside the u.s. in addition to providing for u.s. income taxes on earnings from the u.s., we provide for u.s. income taxes on the earnings of foreign subsidiaries unless the subsidiaries' earnings are considered permanently reinvested outside the u.s. while we do not anticipate changing our intention regarding permanently reinvested earnings, if certain foreign earnings previously treated as permanently reinvested are repatriated, the related u.s. tax on such repatriated earnings could negatively impact our effective tax rates, financial condition and results of operations. our income tax expense is computed based on tax rates at the time of the respective financial period. our future effective tax rates, financial condition and results from operations could be unfavorably affected by changes in the tax rates in jurisdictions where our income is earned, by changes in the tax rules and regulations or the interpretation of tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets. notably, the current u.s. administration and certain members of congress have made public statements indicating that corporate tax reform is a priority. changes to u.s. tax laws could materially affect the tax treatment of our domestic and foreign earnings. in addition, we are subject to examinations of our income tax returns by domestic and foreign tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that may result from the current examinations. there can be no assurance that the final determination of any of these examinations will not have an adverse effect on our effective tax rates, financial position and results of operations. our 2.625% senior convertible debenture (2017 convertible notes) mature on june 15, 2017, which could have a material effect on our liquidity. the 2017 convertible notes have conditional conversion features which were triggered in fiscal 2013 and entitled holders of the 2017 convertible notes to convert the 2017 convertible notes at any time during specified periods at their option. as a result of this, we were required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the 2017 convertible notes as a current rather than long-term liability. in addition, we were required to increase the number of shares used in our net income per share calculations to reflect the potentially dilutive impact of the conversion. during fiscal 2017, we received conversion requests from certain holders of the 2017 convertible notes and paid cash of $142.1 million. the remaining balance of the 2017 convertible notes of $457.9 million will mature on june 15, 2017. at maturity, we will be required to settle any converted principal through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. considerable amounts of our common shares are available for issuance under our equity incentive plans and 2017 convertible notes, and significant issuances in the future may adversely impact the market price of our common shares. as of april 1, 2017 we had 2.00 billion authorized common shares, of which 248.0 million shares were outstanding. in addition, 27.8 million common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to our equity incentive plans and employee stock purchase plan (espp), 15.9 million common shares were reserved for issuance upon conversion or maturity of the 2017 convertible notes and 20.8 million common shares were reserved for issuance upon exercise of warrants. the availability of substantial amounts of our common shares resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity incentive plans or the conversion or maturity of convertible debenture using common shares, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. we have indebtedness that could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. the aggregate amount of our consolidated indebtedness as of april 1, 2017 was $1.46 billion (principal amount), which consists of $500.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 2.125% notes due 2019 (2019 notes), $500.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 3.000% notes due 2021 (2021 notes) and $457.9 million in aggregate principal amount of our 2017 convertible notes. we also may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our indebtedness may: 22 table of contents make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including making scheduled principal and interest payments on the debentures and our other indebtedness; limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; require us to use a portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments; limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions; and require us to repatriate off-shore cash to the u.s. at unfavorable tax rates. our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. the agreements governing the 2019 notes and 2021 notes contain covenants that may adversely affect our ability to operate our business. the indentures governing the 2019 notes and 2021 notes contain various covenants limiting our and our subsidiaries' ability to, among other things: create certain liens on principal property or the capital stock of certain subsidiaries; enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions with respect to principal property; and consolidate or merge with, or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all our assets, taken as a whole, to, another person. a failure to comply with these covenants and other provisions in these indentures could result in events of default under the indentures, which could permit acceleration of the 2019 notes and the 2021 notes. any required repayment as a result of such acceleration could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. the call options and warrant transactions related to our 2017 convertible notes may affect the value of the debenture and our common stock. to hedge against potential dilution upon conversion of the 2017 convertible notes, we purchased call options on our common stock from the hedge counterparties. we also sold warrants to the hedge counterparties, which could separately have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants of $40.89 per share. such dilutive effects could be exacerbated, or we could experience other adverse effects, if a hedge counterparty becomes subject to insolvency proceedings or otherwise fails to deliver common shares they may owe us under those hedges. as the hedge counterparties and their respective affiliates modify hedge positions, they may enter or unwind various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchase or sell our common stock in secondary market transactions. this activity also could affect the market price of our common stock and/or debenture, which could affect the ability of the holders of the debenture to convert and the number of shares and value of the consideration that will be received by the holders of the debenture upon conversion. acquisitions and strategic investments present risks, and we may not realize the goals that were contemplated at the time of a transaction. in the past, we have acquired technology companies whose products complement our products. we also have made a number of strategic investments in other technology companies. we may make similar acquisitions and strategic investments in the future. acquisitions and strategic investments present risks, including: our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management's attention may be diverted by investment, acquisition, transition or integration activities; an acquisition or strategic investment may not further our business strategy as we expected, and we may not integrate an acquired company or technology as successfully as we expected; our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by claims or liabilities that we assume from an acquired company or technology or that are otherwise related to an acquisition; 23 table of contents we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines; we may have higher than anticipated costs in continuing support and development of acquired products, and in general and administrative functions that support such products; our strategic investments may not perform as expected; and we may experience unexpected changes in how we are required to account for our acquisitions and strategic investments pursuant to u.s. gaap. the occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions or strategic investments. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our investment portfolio, which consists of fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $3.07 billion as of april 1, 2017 . our primary aim with our investment portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal and meeting liquidity needs. our investment portfolio includes municipal bonds, mortgage-backed securities, financial institution securities, non-financial institution securities, student loan auction rate securities, u.s. and foreign government and agency securities, asset-backed securities, bank loans and debt mutual funds. in accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer based upon the issuer's credit rating. these securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. a hypothetical 100 basis-point (one percentage point) increase or decrease in interest rates compared to rates at april 1, 2017 and april 2, 2016 would have affected the fair value of our investment portfolio by approximately $60.0 million and $50.0 million, respectively. 39 table of contents credit market risk the global credit markets may experience adverse conditions that negatively impact the values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities. the global credit and capital markets may experience significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system, uncertainty related to global economic conditions and concerns regarding sovereign financial stability. therefore, there is a risk that we may incur other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments should credit market conditions deteriorate. see "note 4. financial instruments" to our consolidated financial statements, included inrisk factors 15 "risk factors." often, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words, such as "may," "will," "could," "should," "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," "continue," "plan," "would," "intend," "project" and other similar terminology, or the negative of such terms. we disclaim any responsibility to update or revise any forward-looking statement provided in this annual report or in any of our other communications for any reason. item 1. business xilinx, inc. (xilinx, the company or we) designs and develops programmable devices and associated technologies, including: integrated circuits (ics) in the form of programmable logic devices (plds), including programmable system on chips (socs) and three-dimensional ics (3d ics); adaptive compute acceleration platform (acap): a highly integrated multi-core heterogeneous compute platform; software design tools to program the plds; software development environments and embedded platforms; targeted reference designs; printed circuit boards; and intellectual property (ip), which consists of xilinx and various third-party verification and ip cores. in addition to its programmable platforms, xilinx provides design services, customer training, field engineering and technical support. our plds include field programmable gate arrays (fpgas), complex programmable logic devices (cplds) that our customers program to perform desired logic functions, and programmable socs, which combine industry standard arm processor-based systems with programmable logic in a single device. we also design and develop 3d ics, which consist of a combination of fpgas, transceivers and a wide memory interface in a single package to exceed the capacity and bandwidth of monolithic devices. in addition, earlier this year we announced a new breakthrough product category called acap, a highly integrated multi-core heterogeneous compute platform, which extends far beyond the capabilities of an fpgas. our product portfolio is designed to provide high integration and quick time-to-market for electronic equipment manufacturers in sub-segments such as wireline and data center, wireless, aerospace and defense, test and measurement, industrial, scientific and medical, automotive, audio, video and broadcast and consumer. we sell our products and services through independent domestic and foreign distributors and through direct sales to original equipment manufacturers (oems) and electronic manufacturing service providers (ems). sales are generated by these independent distributors, independent sales representative or our direct sales organization. xilinx was founded and incorporated in california in february 1984. in april 1990, the company was reincorporated in delaware. our corporate facilities and executive offices are located at 2100 logic drive, san jose, california 95124, and our website address is www.xilinx.com. industry overview there are three principal types of ics used in most digital electronic systems: processors, which generally are utilized for control and computing tasks; memory devices, which are used for storing program instructions and data; and logic devices, which generally are used to manage the interchange and manipulation of digital signals within a system. xilinx designs and develops plds, a type of logic device. alternatives to plds may include application specific integrated circuits (asics) and application specific standard products (assps). plds, asics and assps may be utilized in many of the same types of electronic systems. however, differences in unit pricing, development cost, product performance, reliability, power consumption, capacity, features and functionality, ease of use and time-to-market determine which devices are best-suited for specific applications. 3 table of contents plds have key competitive advantages over asics and assps, including: faster time-to-market and increased design flexibility. both of these advantages are enabled by xilinx desktop software which allows users to implement and revise their designs quickly. in contrast, asics and assps require significant development time and offer limited, if any, flexibility to make design changes. plds are standard components. this means that the same device can be sold to many different users for a myriad of applications. in sharp contrast, asics and assps are customized for an individual user or a specific application. plds are generally disadvantaged in terms of relative device size when compared to chips that are designed to perform a fixed function in a single or small set of applications. asics and assps tend to be smaller than plds performing the same fixed function, resulting in a lower unit cost. however, there is a high fixed cost associated with asic and assp development that is not applicable to pld customers. this fixed cost of asic and assp development is expected to significantly increase on next generation technology nodes. from a total cost of development perspective, asics and assps have generally been more cost effective when used in high-volume production, and plds have generally been more cost effective when used in low- to mid-volume production. however, we expect plds to be able to address higher volume applications and gain market share from asic and assp suppliers as the fixed cost of asic and assp development increases on next generation technology nodes. an overview of typical pld end market applications for our products is shown in the following table: end markets sub-segments applications communications &amp; data center wireless 3g/4g/5g base stations wireless backhaul wireline and data center enterprise routers and switches metro optical networks compute, storage and network infrastructure card acceleration high performance computing industrial, aerospace &amp; defense industrial, scientific and medical factory automation medical imaging machine vision augmented reality test and measurement semiconductor test and measurement equipment asic emulation and prototyping aerospace and defense secure communications avionics electronic warfare and surveillance broadcast, consumer &amp; consumer digital televisions automotive cryptocurrencies automotive driver assistance systems driver information systems infotainment systems audio, video and broadcast post production equipment "prosumer" video equipment 4 table of contents strategy and competition our strategy for growth is to displace asics, assps and traditional pld in the next generation electronic systems. additionally, we focus on enabling building the adaptable intelligent world" with an emphasis including the three major elements described below. data center first: xilinx is ramping up its efforts with key data center customers, ecosystem partners and software application developers, to further enable innovation and deployments in compute acceleration, computational storage and network acceleration. accelerated growth in core markets: core markets consists of automotive; wireless infrastructure; wired communications; audio, video and broadcast; aerospace and defense; industrial, scientific and medical; test, measurement and emulation; and consumer technologies where the company has deep technology leadership market traction. these core markets and customers are central to xilinx, and xilinx continues to drive and enable innovation to these areas. drive adaptive computing with the introduction of acap: in march 2018, we announced the acap, which we believe is a breakthrough product category. acap is a highly integrated multi-core heterogeneous compute platform that can be changed at the hardware level to adapt to the needs of a wide range of applications and workloads. an acap's adaptability, which can be done dynamically in milliseconds during operation, delivers levels of performance and performance per-watt that is unmatched by cpus or gpus. the costs and risks associated with application-specific devices can only be justified for high-volume or highly-specialized commodity products. programmable platforms, alternatively, are becoming critical for our customers to meet increasingly stringent product requirements - cost, power, performance and density - in a business environment characterized by increased complexity, shrinking market windows, rapidly changing market demands, capped engineering budgets, escalating asic and assp engineering costs and increased economic and development risk. with every new generation of fpgas, our strategy is to increase the performance, density and system-level functionality and integration, while driving down cost and power consumption at each manufacturing process node. this enables us to provide simpler, smarter programmable platforms and design methodologies allowing our customers to focus on innovation and differentiation of their products. our plds compete in the logic ic industry, an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion. we expect continued competition from our primary pld competitors such as intel corporation (intel), lattice semiconductor corporation (lattice) and microsemi corporation (microsemi), and from assp vendors such as broadcom corporation (broadcom), marvell technology group, ltd. (marvell) and texas instruments incorporated (texas instruments), as well as from companies such as nvidia with whom we traditionally have not participated in competing markets. in addition, we expect continued competition from the asic market, which has been ongoing since the inception of fpgas. other competitors include manufacturers of: high-density programmable logic products characterized by fpga-type architectures; high-volume and low-cost fpgas as programmable replacements for asics and assps; asics and assps with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; high-speed, low-density cplds; high-performance digital signal processing (dsp) devices; products with embedded processors; products with embedded multi-gigabit transceivers; and other new or emerging programmable logic products. we believe that important competitive factors in the logic ic industry include: product pricing; time-to-market; product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density; field upgradability; adaptability of products to specific applications; ease of use and functionality of software design tools; availability and functionality of predefined ip; inventory and supply chain management; access to leading-edge process technology and assembly capacity; ability to provide timely customer service and support; and 5 table of contents access to advanced packaging technology. silicon product overview a brief overview of the silicon product offerings is listed in the table below. these products comprise the majority of our revenues. additionally, some of our more mature product families have been excluded from the table, although they continue to generate revenues. we operate and track our results in one operating segment for financial reporting purposes. 6 table of contents product families plds date introduced zynq ultrascale+ rfsocs february 2017 spartan-7 september 2016 virtex ultrascale+ january 2016 kintex ultrascale+ december 2015 zynq ultrascale+ september 2015 virtex ultrascale may 2014 kintex ultrascale november 2013 zynq-7000 march 2011 virtex-7 june 2010 kintex-7 june 2010 artix-7 june 2010 virtex-6 february 2009 spartan-6 february 2009 see information under the caption "results of operations - net revenues" in item 7. "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" for information about our revenues from our product families. see also "note 15. segment information" to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8. "financial information and supplementary data" for information regarding segments. ultrascale+ product families the ultrascale+ portfolio consists of three product families, and is manufactured using taiwan semiconductor manufacturing company limited's (tsmc) 16 nanometer (nm) finfet+ process. the ultrascale+ portfolio includes fpgas, 3d ic technology, multi- processing system on a chip (mpsocs) products, combining new memory, 3d on 3d and multiprocessing soc technologies, and the industry's first all programmable soc architecture with integrated radio frequency (rf) data converters. zynq ultrascale+ rfsocs integrate rf data converters into an all programmable soc architecture. complete with an arm cortex-a53 processing subsystem, ultrascale+ programmable logic, and the highest signal processing bandwidth in a zynq ultrascale+ device, the new family provides a comprehensive rf signal chain for wireless, cable access, test &amp; measurement, early warning / radar, and other high performance rf applications. virtex ultrascale+ devices, which include industry-leading capabilities such as 32g transceivers, peripheral component interconnect express (pcie) gen 4 integrated cores, and ultraram on-chip memory technology, provide the required performance and integration needed for next generation data center, 400g and terabit wireline, test and measurement, and aerospace and defense applications. kintex ultrascale+ devices provide a strong price/performance watt balance in a finfet node, delivering a very cost-effective solution for high-end capabilities including transceiver and memory interface line rates, as well as 100g connectivity cores. these devices are ideal for both packet processing and dsp-intensive functions, and are well suited for applications ranging from wireless technology to high-speed wired networking and data center. 7 table of contents the zynq ultrascale+ product family represents the company's second generation programmable soc family. this new family combines seven user programmable processors cores including a 64-bit quad-core arm cortex a53 application processing unit, a 32-bit dual-core arm cortex r5 real time processing unit, and an arm mali 400 graphics processing unit. these devices enable the development of next generation embedded vision, automotive, industrial internet of things (iot) and communication systems by providing significant increases in system level performance/watt and any-to-any connectivity with the security and safety required for next generation systems. ultrascale product families these devices deliver an asic-class advantage, based on the ultrascale architecture and utilizing tsmc's 20soc gate density process. these devices deliver next generation routing, asic-like clocking, and enhancements to logic and fabric to eliminate interconnect bottlenecks while supporting consistent device utilization. kintex ultrascale fpgas represent the company's second generation mid-range fpga family. these devices offer high price-performance at the lowest power. kintex ultrascale devices are designed to meet the requirements for the growing number of key applications including next generation wireline and wireless communications and ultra-high definition displays and equipment. virtex ultrascale devices provide advanced levels of performance, system integration and bandwidth on a single chip. the largest family member delivers 4.4m logic cells, more than doubling xilinx's industry's highest capacity device and delivering 50m equivalent asic gates. virtex ultrascale devices are expected to be used in the industry's most challenging applications including: 400g communication applications, high performance computing, surveillance and reconnaissance systems, and asic emulation and prototyping. 28nm product families the 28nm product families are fabricated on a high-k metal gate, high performance and low power 28nm process technology. these product families are based on a scalable and optimized architecture, which enables design, ip portability and re-use across all families as well as provides designers the ability to achieve the appropriate combination of i/o support, performance, feature quantities, packaging and power consumption to address a wide range of applications. the 28nm product families include: virtex-7 fpgas, including 3d ics, are optimized for applications requiring the highest capacity, performance, dsp and serial connectivity with transceivers operating up to 28g. target applications include 400g and 100g line cards, high-performance computing and test and measurement applications. kintex-7 fpgas represent xilinx's first mid-range fpga family. these devices maximize price-performance and performance per watt. target applications include wireless lte infrastructure, video display technology and medical imaging. artix-7 fpgas offer the lowest power and system cost at higher performance than alternative high volume fpgas. these devices are targeted to high volume applications such as handheld portable ultrasound devices, multi-function printers and software defined radios. the zynq-7000 family is the first family of xilinx programmable socs. this class of product combines an industry-standard arm dual-core cortex-a9 mpcore processing system with xilinx 28nm architecture. there are five devices in the zynq-7000 soc family that allow designers to target cost sensitive as well as high-performance applications from a single platform using industry-standard tools. these devices are designed to enable incremental market opportunities in applications such as industrial motor control, driver assistance and smart surveillance systems, and smart heterogeneous wireless networks. spartan-7 fpgas offer the best performance and power consumption in their class, along with small form factor packaging to meet the most stringent requirements. these devices are ideally suited for industrial, consumer, and automotive applications including any-to-any connectivity, sensor fusion, and embedded vision. 40nm and 45nm product families the virtex-6 fpga family consists of 13 devices and is the sixth generation in the virtex series of fpgas. virtex-6 fpgas are fabricated on a high-performance 40nm process technology. there are three virtex-6 families, and each is optimized to deliver different feature mixes to address a variety of markets. the spartan-6 fpga family, is fabricated on a low-power 45nm process technology. the spartan-6 family is the pld industry's only 45nm high-volume fpga family, consisting of 11 devices in two product families. 8 table of contents other product families prior generation virtex families include virtex-5, virtex-4, virtex-ii pro, virtex-ii and the original virtex family. spartan family fpgas include spartan-3 fpgas, the spartan-3e family and the spartan-3a family. prior generation spartan families include spartan-iie, spartan-ii, spartan xl and the original spartan family. cplds operate on the lowest end of the programmable logic density spectrum. cplds are single-chip, nonvolatile solutions characterized by instant-on and universal interconnect. cplds combine the advantages of ultra-low power consumption with the benefits of high performance and low cost. prior generations of cplds include the coolrunner and xc9500 product families. easypath fpgas easypath fpgas offer customers a fast, simple method of cost-reducing fpga designs. easypath fpgas use the same production masks and fabrication process as standard fpgas and are tested to a specific customer application to improve yield and lower costs. as a result, easypath fpgas provide customers with significant cost reduction when compared to the standard fpga devices without the conversion risk, engineering effort, or the additional time required to move to an asic. the latest generation of easypath fpgas and easypath-7 fpgas provide lower total product cost of ownership for cost-reducing high performance fpgas. design platforms and services programmable platforms we offer three types of programmable platforms that support our customers' designs and reduce their development efforts: the base platform is the delivery vehicle for all of our new silicon offerings used to develop and run customer-specific software applications and hardware designs. released at launch, the base platform is comprised of: fpga silicon; vivado design suite design environment; integration support for optional third-party synthesis, simulation and signal integrity tools; reference designs; development boards and ip. the domain-specific platform targets one of the three primary xilinx fpga user profiles: the embedded processing developer; the dsp developer; or the logic/connectivity developer. it accomplishes this by augmenting the base platform with a targeted set of integrated technologies, including: higher-level design methodologies and tools; domain-specific ip including embedded, mixed signal, video, dsp and connectivity; domain-specific development hardware and reference designs; and operating systems and software. the market-specific platform enables software or hardware developers to quickly build and run their specific application or solution. built for specific markets such as automotive, consumer, aerospace and defense, communications, audio, video and broadcast, industrial, or scientific and medical, the market-specific platform integrates both the base and domain-specific platforms with higher targeted applications elements such as ip, reference designs and boards optimized for a particular market. design tools to accommodate the various design methodologies and design flows employed by the wide range of our customers' user profiles such as system designers, algorithm designers, software coders and logic designers, we provide the appropriate design environment tailored to each user profile for design creation, design implementation and design verification. in april 2012, xilinx introduced the next-generation vivado design suite designed to improve developer productivity resulting in faster design integration and implementation. the vivado design suite hallmarks include an easy-to-use ip-centric design flow and significant improvement in run times. the standards-based vivado tools include high-level synthesis to provide a more direct flow in retargeting dsps and general purpose processor designs into our fpgas, ip integrator to rapidly stitch together cores at higher levels of abstraction, and a new analytical place-and-route engine which significantly improves run times. the vivado design suite supports xilinx 7 series fpgas and zynq-7000, our programmable socs, as well as the ultrascale and ultrascale+ product generations. the previous generation tool suite, the ise design suite, supports xilinx 7 series fpgas, programmable socs and all previous generation fpgas, enabling customers to transition to the vivado design suite when the timing is right for their design needs. both the vivado design suite and ise design suite operate with a wide range of third-party electronic design automation software point-tools offerings. 9 table of contents in early 2015, xilinx also introduced the sdx development environment, which has significantly expanded the xilinx user base to include the broad community of systems and software engineers in both existing and new markets. this innovative development environment also enables end user and third party platform developers to rapidly define, integrate and verify system level solutions and provide their end customers with a customized programming environment. the sdx family includes the sdnet environment, which enables the easy creation of high-performance packet processing systems with high level user defined specifications and compilation to highly optimized fpgas; the sdaccel environment for opencl, c and c++ software designers focusing on data center acceleration applications; and the sdsoc environment for all programmable socs and mpsocs with broad end market applicability. intellectual property xilinx and various third parties offer hundreds of no charge and fee-bearing ip core licenses covering ethernet, memory controllers, interlaken and pcie interfaces, as well as an abundance of domain-specific ip in the areas of embedded, dsp and connectivity, and market-specific ip cores. in addition, our products and technology leverage industry standards such as arm amba axi-4 interconnect technology, ip-xact and ieee p1735 encryption to facilitate plug-and-play fpga design and take advantage of the large ecosystem of arm ip developers. development boards, kits and configuration products in addition to the broad selection of legacy development boards presently offered, we have introduced a new unified board strategy that enables the creation of a standardized and coordinated set of base boards available both from xilinx and our ecosystem vendors, all utilizing the industry-standard extensions that enable customization for market specific applications. adopting this standard for all of our base boards enables the creation of a scalable and extensible delivery mechanism for all xilinx programmable platforms. we also offer comprehensive development kits including hardware, design tools, ip and reference designs that are designed to streamline and accelerate the development of domain-specific and market-specific applications. finally, xilinx offers a range of configuration products including one-time programmable and in-system programmable storage devices to configure xilinx fpgas. these programmable read-only memory (prom) products support all of our fpga devices. third-party alliances xilinx and certain third parties have developed and continue to offer a robust ecosystem of ip, boards, tools, services and support through the xilinx alliance program. xilinx also works with these third parties to promote our programmable platforms through third-party tools, ip, software, boards and design services. in may of 2016, xilinx led the formation of the very broad cache coherent interconnect acceleration (ccix) consortium with the singular goal of bringing a high performance, open acceleration framework to the data center market. as of march 2018, this consortium had approximately 40 members, ranging from silicon providers to a rich ecosystem of partners including design, foundry, verification, software and system vendors. engineering services xilinx engineering services provide customers with engineering resources to augment their design teams and to provide expert design-specific advice. xilinx tailors its engineering services to the needs of its customers, ranging from hands-on training to full design creation and implementation. research and development our research and development (r&amp;d) activities are primarily directed towards the design of new ics and the development of new software design automation tools for hardware and embedded software, the design of logic ip, the adoption of advanced semiconductor manufacturing processes for ongoing cost reductions, performance and signal integrity improvements and lowering pld power consumption. as a result of our r&amp;d efforts, we have introduced a number of new products during the past several years including the virtex, kintex, zynq ultrascale+, zynq ultrascale+ rfsocs, virtex &amp; kintex ultrascale and artix, kintex, virtex &amp; zynq 7 series program families. we have enhanced our ip core offerings and introduced our next generation software design suite (vivado), which is optimized for sdaccel and sdsoc application development. through process technology collaboration with our foundry 10 table of contents suppliers along with strategic investment in eda tools and improved design techniques, we have been the first pld company to ship 45nm high-volume, 28nm, 20nm and 16nm fpga devices. additionally, our investment in r&amp;d has allowed us to ship the industry's first 28nm and 16nm devices with embedded arm technology, the industry's first all programmable soc with integrated rf data converters, as well as the industry's first 3d ic devices on the 28nm and 20nm process nodes. we believe technical leadership and innovation are essential to our future success, and we continue to invest in our technology. in fiscal 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , our r&amp;d expenses were $639.8 million , $601.4 million and $533.9 million , respectively. sales and distribution we sell our products to oems, ems and to electronic components distributors who resell these products to oems and ems. we use a dedicated global sales and marketing organization, and to a lesser extent, independent sales representatives, to generate sales. in general, we focus our direct demand creation efforts on a limited number of key accounts. distributors and independent sales representatives create demand within the balance of our customer base in defined territories. distributors also provide inventory, value-added services and logistics for a wide range of our oem customers. whether xilinx, the distributor, or the independent sales representative identifies the sales opportunity, a local distributor will process and fulfill the majority of all customer orders. in such situations, distributors are the sellers of the products and as such they bear most legal and financial risks generally related to the sale of commercial goods, including such risks as credit loss, inventory shrinkage, theft and foreign currency fluctuations, but excluding certain indemnity and warranty liabilities. in accordance with our distribution agreements and industry practice, we have granted our authorized distributors the contractual right to return certain amounts of unsold product on a periodic basis and also receive price adjustments for unsold product in the case of a change in list prices subsequent to the initial sale. revenue recognition on shipments to distributors worldwide is deferred until the products are sold to the distributors' end customers. our revenue recognition policy will change starting fiscal 2019, see "note 2. summary of significant accounting policies and concentrations of risk" to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. avnet, inc. (avnet) distributes the substantial majority of our products worldwide. as of march 31, 2018 and april 1, 2017 , avnet accounted for 60% and 59% , respectively, of our total net accounts receivable. resale of product through avnet accounted for 43% , 44% and 50% of our worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , respectively. we also use other regional distributors throughout the world. we believe distributors provide a cost-effective means of reaching a broad range of customers while providing efficient logistics services. since plds are standard products, they do not carry many of the inventory risks posed by asics. from time to time, we may add or terminate distributors in specific geographies, or move customers to a direct support or fulfillment model as we deem appropriate given our strategies, the level of distributor business activity and distributor performance and financial condition. see "note 2. summary of significant accounting policies and concentrations of risk" to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. "financial statements and supplementary data," for information about concentrations of credit risk and "note 15. segment information" for information about our revenues from external customers and domestic and international operations. no end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues in fiscal 2018 , 2017 or 2016 . backlog as of march 31, 2018 , our backlog from oem customers and backlog from end customers reported by our distributors scheduled for delivery within the next three months was $429.0 million, compared to $356.0 million as of april 1, 2017 . orders from end customers to our distributors are subject to changes in delivery schedules or to cancellation without significant penalty. as a result, backlog from both oem customers and end customers reported by our distributors as of any particular period may not be a reliable indicator of revenue for any future period. wafer fabrication as a fabless semiconductor company, we do not manufacture wafers used for our ic products or proms. rather, we purchase our wafers from independent foundries including tsmc, united microelectronics corporation (umc) and samsung electronics co., ltd. (samsung). tsmc manufactures the wafers for our advanced products. precise terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations with each wafer foundry. 11 table of contents our strategy is to focus our resources on market development and creating new ics and software design tools rather than on wafer fabrication. we continuously evaluate opportunities to enhance foundry relationships and/or obtain additional capacity from our main suppliers as well as other suppliers of wafers manufactured with leading-edge process technologies, and we adjust loadings at particular foundries to meet our business needs. sort, assembly and test wafers are sorted by the foundry or independent sort subcontractors. sorted die are assembled by subcontractors. during the assembly process, the wafers are separated into individual die, which are then assembled into various package types. following assembly, the packaged units are generally tested by independent test subcontractors or by xilinx personnel. we purchase most of our assembly services from siliconware precision industries ltd. and most of our test services from king yuan electronics company in taiwan. quality certification xilinx has achieved and currently maintains quality management system certification to tl9000/iso9001 for our facilities in san jose, california; longmont, colorado; singapore; and hyderabad, india. in addition, xilinx achieved and currently maintains iso 14001 and ohsas 18001 environmental health and safety management system certifications in the san jose and singapore locations. intellectual property and licenses while our various proprietary intellectual property rights (including patents, copyrights, trade secrets, and trademarks) are important to our success, we believe our business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. as of march 31, 2018 , we held over 4,200 issued patents, which vary in duration, and over 800 pending patent applications relating to our proprietary technology in various jurisdictions around the world. we maintain an active program of filing for additional patents in the areas of, but not limited to, circuits, software, ic architecture, ip cores, system design, testing methodologies and other technologies relating to our products and business. we licensed portions of our patent portfolio to certain external parties and obtained patent licenses from certain third-parties as well. we have acquired various licenses from third parties to certain technologies that are implemented in ip cores or embedded in our devices, such as processors. these licenses support our continuing ability to make and sell our products. we have also acquired various licenses to certain third-party proprietary software, open-source software, and related technologies, such as compilers, for our design tools. continued use of such software and technology is important to the operation of the design tools upon which customers depend. we maintain the xilinx trade name and trademarks, including the following trademarks that are registered in the u.s. and other countries: xilinx, the xilinx logo, artix, coolrunner, ise, kintex, spartan, virtex, vivado, and zynq. maintaining these trademarks, and the goodwill associated with them, is important to our business. we have also obtained the rights to use certain trademarks owned by consortiums and other trademark owners that are related to our products and business. we intend to continue to protect our intellectual property vigorously. we believe that failure to enforce our intellectual property rights or failure to protect our trade secrets effectively could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we incurred, and in the future we may continue to incur, litigation expenses to defend against claims of infringement and to enforce our intellectual property rights against third parties. however, any such litigation may or may not be successful. corporate responsibility xilinx places a high level of importance on corporate responsibility. through senior-level sponsorship, regular environmental, health and safety assessments and company-wide performance targets, we strive to achieve a culture that emphasizes contribution to local and global communities through a number of key initiatives: company we strive to meet or exceed industry and regulatory standards for ethical business practices, product responsibility, and supplier management. all of xilinx's directors, officers and employees are required to comply not only with the letter of the laws, rules and regulations that govern the conduct of our business, but also with the spirit of those laws. 12 table of contents environment we continually monitor regulatory requirement and resource trends in order to identify, manage and control activities that have an environmental impact. we focus on the conservations of energy and natural resource, reducing the solid and chemical waste of our operations, avoiding and preventing pollution and minimizing our overall environmental impact with regards to the communities around us and consistent with global climate change efforts. community we are committed to growing strategic relationships with a wide range of local organizations and programs that are designed to develop and strengthen communities located around the world. xilinx develops local community relationships at key sites through funding and involvement that encourages active participation, teamwork, and volunteerism. xilinx supports opportunities initiated by its employees and that involve participation and empowerment of its employees. we are committed to charitable giving programs that work towards systemic change and measurable results. workplace we provide a safe and healthy work environment for all employees. employee diversity and inclusion are embraced and opportunities for training, growth, and advancement are strongly encouraged. the xilinx code of social responsibility outlines standards to ensure that working conditions at xilinx are safe and that workers are treated with respect, fairness and dignity. employees as of march 31, 2018 , we had 4,014 employees compared to 3,831 as of the end of the prior fiscal year. none of our employees are represented by a labor union. we have not experienced any work stoppages and believe we maintain good employee relations. executive officers of the registrant certain information regarding the executive officers and persons chosen to become executive officers of xilinx as of may 14, 2018 is set forth below: name age position victor peng 58 president and chief executive officer (ceo) lorenzo a. flores 53 executive vice president and chief financial officer (cfo) catia hagopian 46 senior vice president, general counsel and secretary william christopher madden 59 senior vice president, hardware and systems product development emre nder 51 senior vice president, product and vertical marketing salil raje 48 senior vice president, software and ip products group vincent l. tong 56 executive vice president, global operations and quality mark david wadlington 56 senior vice president, global sales there are no family relationships among the executive officers of the company or the board of directors. victor peng joined the company in april 2008 and currently serves as president and chief executive officer, a position he has held since february 2018. from april 2017 to february 2018, mr. peng served as chief operating officer. from july 2014 to april 2017, he served as executive vice president and general manager of products. from may 2013 through july 2014, mr. peng served as senior vice president and general manager of the programmable platforms group. from may 2012 through april 2013, he served as senior vice president of the programmable platforms group. from november 2008 through april 2012, he served as senior vice president of the programmable platforms development group. prior to joining the company, mr. peng served as corporate vice president, graphics products group at advanced micro devices (amd), a provider of processing 13 table of contents solutions, from november 2005 to april 2008. prior to joining amd, mr. peng served in a variety of executive engineering positions at companies in the semiconductor and processor industries. lorenzo a. flores joined the company in september 2008 and currently serves as executive vice president and chief financial officer, a position he has held since february 2018. from may 2016 to january 2018, mr. flores served as senior vice president and chief financial officer. from july 2012 to may 2016, mr. flores served as corporate vice president of finance and corporate controller. from september 2008 to june 2012 he served as vice president of finance and corporate controller. prior to joining the company, mr. flores was assistant vice president of financial planning and analysis at cognizant technology solutions, served as chief financial officer of a venture funded startup, and spent ten years at intel corporation, a semiconductor chip maker, serving in a variety of positions, including controller, intel architecture cpus and controller, telecommunications and embedded group. catia hagopian joined the company in february 2007 and currently serves as senior vice president, general counsel and secretary, a position she has held since march 2018. ms. hagopian is responsible for the company's legal operations globally covering matters such as commercial transactions, corporate activities and policies, corporate governance, employment, export compliance, intellectual property and litigation. from april 2012 to march 2018, ms. hagopian served as the company's vice president, legal affairs, global compensation and benefits. from february 2007 to april 2012, ms. hagopian held various senior positions in the company's legal department. prior to joining the company, ms. hagopian served as a law clerk for the us district court, eastern district of california and worked at several law firms, including dla piper llp (us). william christopher madden joined the company in may 2008 and currently serves as senior vice president, hardware and systems product development, a position he has held since july 2017. from october 2010 to june 2017, mr. madden served as corporate vice president, fpga development and silicon technology. from may 2008 to september 2010, mr. madden served as vice president of silicon technology. prior to joining the company, mr. madden served as a senior fellow at amd where he drove amd's next generation chip integration methodology. mr. madden also currently serves as an adjunct professor at university college dublin, a fellow of the institute of engineers ireland and a board member of science foundation ireland. emre nder joined the company in august 2017 and currently serves as senior vice president, product and vertical marketing. from july 2015 to june 2017, mr. nder served as the vice president/general manager and vice president, global sales, sensing and iot at honeywell international inc., a diversified technology and manufacturing company that produces a variety of commercial and consumer products]. from october 2009 to december 2014, he served as vice president, marketing and core markets at analog devices, inc. (adi), a global analog, mixed-signal and digital signal processing technology company. prior to joining adi, mr. nder worked at emc corporation and the boston consulting group. salil raje joined the company in june 2004 and currently serves as senior vice president, software and ip products group, a position he has held since april 2017. from june 2012 to april 2017, mr. raje served as corporate vice president, software and ip products group. he has also served as vice president, fpga software from january 2009 to june 2012, and as director, software development from june 2004 to january 2009. prior to joining the company, mr. raje served as chief technology officer and chief executive officer of hier design, inc., a company he co-founded in 2001 and which was acquired by the company in june 2004. vincent l. tong joined the company in may 1990 and currently serves as executive vice president, global operations &amp; quality, a position he has held since may 2016. from january 2015 to may 2016, mr. tong served as senior vice president, global operations and quality. he also has served as executive leader, asia pacific since october 2011. mr. tong previously served as senior vice president, worldwide quality and new product introductions from june 2008 to january 2015. he has also served as vice president, worldwide quality and reliability from august 2006 to june 2008 and prior to that as vice president of product technology from may 2001 to july 2006. prior to joining the company, mr. tong served in a variety of engineering and management positions at monolithic memories, a producer of logic devices, and amd. he holds seven u.s. patents. mark david wadlington joined the company in march 2018 and currently serves as senior vice president, global sales. prior to joining the company, mr. wadlington was senior vice president, worldwide sales at synaptics incorporated from april 2017 to march 2018. prior to joining synaptics, from february 2013 to march 2017, mr. wadlington held executive positions at lattice semiconductor, including serving as corporate vice president and general manager, mobile and consumer division at lattice semiconductor and corporate vice president of worldwide sales. prior to lattice, mr. wadlington was vice president of worldwide sales at applied micro circuits corporation (amcc) from march 2011 to november 2012. prior to amcc, mr. wadlington served as the vice president of america's sales at the company, vice president of worldwide mcp (media communications processor) sales at nvidia, and held various senior-level positions at lsi logic during his 21-year tenure there, including serving as lsi logic's vice president of worldwide semiconductor sales. 14 table of contents additional information we make available, via a link through our investor relations website located at www.investor.xilinx.com, access to our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the u.s. securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (exchange act) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission (sec). all such filings on our investor relations website are available free of charge. printed copies of these documents are also available to stockholders without charge, upon written request directed to xilinx, inc., attn: investor relations, 2100 logic drive, san jose, ca 95124. further, a copy of this annual report on form 10-k is located at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room can be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings at http://www.sec.gov. the content on any website referred to in this filing is not incorporated by reference into this filing unless expressly noted otherwise. additional information required by this item 1 is incorporated by reference to the section captioned "net revenues - net revenues by geography" in item 7. "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and to "note 15. segment information" to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. "financial statements and supplementary data." this annual report includes trademarks and service marks of xilinx and other companies that are unregistered and registered in the u.s. and other countries. item 1a. risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks to the company. our business operations or financial condition could be impaired by risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company, or that the company's management does not currently consider material. if any of the risks described below were to occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. our success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products and our failure to do so would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. our success depends in large part on our ability to develop and introduce new products that address customer requirements and compete effectively on the basis of price, density, functionality, power consumption and performance. consolidation in our industry may increasingly result in our competitors having greater resources, or other synergies, that provide them with a competitive advantage in those regards. the success of new product introductions is dependent upon several factors, including: timely completion of new product designs; ability to generate new design opportunities and design wins; availability of specialized field application engineering resources supporting demand creation and customer adoption of new products; ability to utilize advanced manufacturing process technologies on circuit geometries of 28nm and smaller; achieving acceptable yields; ability to obtain adequate production capacity from our wafer foundries and assembly and test subcontractors; ability to obtain advanced packaging; availability of supporting software design tools; utilization of predefined ip logic; customer acceptance of advanced features in our new products; ability of our customers to complete their product designs and bring them to market; and market acceptance of our customers' products. our product development efforts may not be successful, our new products may not achieve industry acceptance, or we may not achieve the necessary volume of production that would lead to further per unit cost reductions. revenues relating to our mature products are expected to decline in the future, which is normal for our product life cycles. as a result, we may be increasingly dependent on revenues derived from design wins for our newer products as well as anticipated cost reductions in the manufacture of our current products. we rely primarily on obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture 15 table of contents of existing products, and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and other price/performance factors that enable us to increase revenues while maintaining consistent margins. to the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner, or to the extent that our products do not achieve market acceptance at prices with higher margins, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we rely on independent foundries for the manufacture of all of our products and a manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could adversely affect our operations. most of our wafers are manufactured in taiwan by tsmc and umc. we also have wafers manufactured in south korea by samsung electronics co., ltd. terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined through periodic negotiations with these wafer foundries, which usually result in short-term agreements that do not provide for long-term supply or allocation commitments. we are dependent on these foundries to supply the substantial majority of our wafers. we rely on tsmc, umc and our other foundries to produce wafers with competitive performance attributes. therefore, the foundries, particularly tsmc which manufactures our newest products, must be able to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies and increased wafer sizes, produce wafers at acceptable yields and deliver them in a timely manner. furthermore, we cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our wafers will offer us competitive pricing terms or other commercial terms important to our business. we cannot guarantee that our foundries will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies or difficulties due to limitations of new and existing process technologies. for example, we may experience supply shortages due to the difficulties foundries may encounter if they must rapidly increase their production capacities from low utilization levels to high utilization levels because of an unexpected increase in demand. furthermore, we cannot guarantee that the foundries will be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products or that they will continue to manufacture a given product for the full life of the product. we could also experience supply shortages due to very strong demand for our products, or a surge in demand for semiconductors in general, which may lead to tightening of foundry capacity across the industry. in addition, weak economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of the foundries and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us. the insolvency of a foundry or any significant manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity would disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. earthquakes or other natural disasters could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes or other natural disasters such as typhoons, tsunamis, volcano eruptions, fires or floods, as well as disruptions in access to adequate supplies of electricity, natural gas or water. the independent foundries, upon which we rely to manufacture our products, as well as our california and singapore facilities, are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. tsmc's and umc's foundries in taiwan and our assembly and test partners in other regions as well as many of our operations in california are located in areas that have been seismically active in the past and some of these areas have also been affected by other natural disasters such as typhoons. disruption of operations at these foundries and our facilities could cause delays in manufacturing and shipments of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. any catastrophic event in these locations would disrupt our operations, and our insurance may not cover losses resulting from such disruptions of our operations, thereby materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. for example, as a result of the march 2011 earthquake in japan, production at the seiko factory at sakata was halted temporarily, impacting production of some of our older devices. in addition, suppliers of wafers and substrates were forced to halt production temporarily. furthermore, natural disasters can also indirectly impact us. for example, our customers' supply of other complimentary products may be disrupted by a natural disaster and may cause them to delay orders of our products. more vertically-integrated competitors may be less exposed to some or all of these and other risks. the semiconductor industry is characterized by cyclical market patterns and a significant industry downturn could adversely affect our operating results. the semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and our financial performance has been affected by downturns in the industry. down cycles are generally characterized by price erosion and weaker demand for our products. weaker demand for our products resulting from economic conditions in the end markets we serve and reduced capital spending by our customers can result, and in the past has resulted, in excess and obsolete inventories and corresponding inventory write-downs. we attempt to identify changes in market conditions as soon as possible; however, the dynamics of the market in which we operate make prediction of and timely reaction to such events difficult. due to these and other factors, our past results are not reliable predictors of our future results. 16 table of contents the nature of our business makes our revenues difficult to predict which could have an adverse impact on our business. in addition to the challenging market conditions we may face, we have limited visibility into the demand for our products, particularly new products, because demand for our products depends upon our products being designed into our end customers' products and those products achieving market acceptance. due to the complexity of our customers' designs, the design to volume production process for our customers requires a substantial amount of time, frequently longer than a year. in addition, other factors may affect our end customers' demand for our products, including, but not limited to, end customer program delays and the ability of end customers to secure other complementary products. we also are dependent upon "turns," orders received and turned for shipment in the same quarter. these factors make it difficult for us to forecast future sales and project quarterly revenues. the difficulty in forecasting future sales impairs our ability to project our inventory requirements, which could result, and in the past has resulted, in inventory write-downs or failure to meet customer product demands in a timely manner. in addition, difficulty in forecasting revenues compromises our ability to provide forward-looking revenue and earnings guidance. if we are not able to compete successfully in our industry, our financial results and future prospects will be adversely affected. our plds compete in the ic industry, an industry that is intensely competitive, continues to consolidate, and is characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion. we expect increased competition from our pld competitors, including intel, lattice and microsemi, and from new market entrants. in addition, we continue to face competition in the asic and assp markets, including competitors such as broadcom, marvell and texas instruments. we believe that important competitive factors in the logic ic industry include: product pricing; time-to-market; product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density; field upgradeability; adaptability of products to specific applications; ease of use and functionality of software design tools; availability and functionality of predefined ip logic; inventory and supply chain management; access to leading-edge process technology and assembly capacity; ability to provide timely customer service and support; and access to advanced packaging technology. our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high-volume, low-cost and low-power applications as well as high-performance, high-density applications. however, we may not be successful in executing this strategy. in addition, we anticipate continued pressure from our customers to reduce prices, which may outpace our ability to lower the cost for established products. other competitors include manufacturers of: high-density programmable logic products characterized by fpga-type architectures; high-volume and low-cost fpgas as programmable replacements for asics and assps; asics and assps with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; high-speed, low-density complex programmable logic devices; high-performance digital signal processing devices; products with embedded processors; products with embedded multi-gigabit transceivers; discrete general purpose gpus targeting non-graphics applications; and other new or emerging programmable logic products. several companies have introduced products that compete with ours or have announced their intention to sell pld products. to the extent that our efforts to compete are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the benefits of programmable logic have attracted a number of competitors to this segment. we recognize that different applications require different programmable technologies, and we are developing architectures, processes and products to meet these varying customer needs. recognizing the increasing importance of standard software solutions, we have developed common software 17 table of contents design tools that support the full range of our ic products. we believe that automation and ease of design are significant competitive factors in this segment. we could also face competition from our licensees. in the past we have granted limited rights to other companies with respect to certain aspects of our older technology, and we may do so in the future. granting such rights may enable these companies to manufacture and market products that may be competitive with some of our older products. increased costs of wafers and materials, or shortages in wafers and materials, could adversely impact our gross margins and lead to reduced revenues. if greater demand for wafers is not offset by an increase in foundry capacity, market demand for wafers or production and assembly materials increases, or if a supplier of our wafers or other materials ceases or suspends operations, our supply of wafers and other materials could become limited. such shortages raise the likelihood of potential wafer price increases, wafer shortages or shortages in materials at production and test facilities, resulting in potential inability to address customer product demands in a timely manner. for example, in 2011, when certain suppliers located in japan were forced to temporarily halt production as the result of a natural disaster, this resulted in a tightening of supply for those materials. such shortages of wafers and materials as well as increases in wafer or materials prices could adversely affect our gross margins and would adversely affect our ability to meet customer demands and lead to reduced revenue. we depend on distributors, primarily avnet, to generate a significant portion of our sales and complete order fulfillment. resale of product through avnet accounted for 43% of our worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2018 , and, as of march 31, 2018 , avnet accounted for 60% of our total net accounts receivable. any adverse change to our relationship with avnet or our other distributors could have a material impact on our business. furthermore, if a key distributor materially defaulted on a contract or otherwise failed to perform, our business and financial results would suffer. in addition, we are subject to concentrations of credit risk in our trade accounts receivable, which includes accounts of our distributors. a significant reduction of effort by a distributor to sell our products or a material change in our relationship with one or more distributors may reduce our access to certain end customers and adversely affect our ability to sell our products. in addition, the financial health of our distributors and our continuing relationships with them are important to our success. unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health of some of these distributors, particularly our smaller distributors. this could increase our credit risk exposure relating to the insolvency of certain distributors, the inability of distributors to obtain credit to finance the purchase of our products, or delayed payment for such purchases. our business could be harmed if the financial health of these distributors impaired their performance and we were unable to secure alternate distributors. we are dependent on independent subcontractors for most of our assembly and test services, and unavailability or disruption of these services could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. we are dependent on subcontractors to provide semiconductor assembly, substrate, test and shipment services. any (i) prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, (ii) disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, (iii) delays in stabilizing manufacturing processes and ramping up volume for new products, (iv) transitions to new service providers, or (v) other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands. in addition, unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of these subcontractors and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us. these factors would result in reduced net revenues and could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. a number of factors, including our inventory strategy, can impact our gross margins. a number of factors can cause our gross margins to fluctuate, including yield, wafer pricing, product mix, market acceptance of our new products, competitive pricing dynamics, licensing costs, geographic and/or market segment pricing strategies. in addition, forecasting our gross margins is difficult because a significant portion of our business is based on turns within the same quarter. while our overall inventory levels fluctuate over time, the inventory of newer product lines may be higher than other products due to a planned increase in safety stock in anticipation of future revenue growth. in the event demand does not materialize, we may be subject to incremental obsolescence costs. in addition, future product cost reductions could have impact on our inventory valuation as well as our operating results. 18 table of contents reductions in the average selling prices of our products could have a negative impact on our gross margins. the average selling prices of our products generally decline as the products mature. we seek to offset the decrease in selling prices through yield improvement, manufacturing cost reductions and increased unit sales. we also continue to develop higher value products or product features that increase the average selling prices of our products, or slow the decline of such prices. however, there is no guarantee that our ongoing efforts will be successful or that they will keep pace with the decline in selling prices of our products, which could ultimately lead to a decline in our revenues and gross margins. general negative economic conditions and any related deterioration in the global business environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. if weak economic conditions happen, there may be a number of negative effects on our business, including customers or potential customers reducing or delaying orders, the insolvency of key suppliers, potentially causing production delays, the inability of customers to obtain credit, and the insolvency of one or more customers. any of these effects could impact our ability to effectively manage inventory levels and collect receivables and ultimately decrease our net revenues and profitability. we are subject to the risks associated with conducting business operations outside of the u.s. which could adversely affect our business. in addition to international sales and support operations and development activities, we purchase our wafers from foreign foundries, have our commercial products assembled, packaged and tested by subcontractors located outside the u.s. and utilize third party warehouse operators to store and manage inventory levels for certain of our products. all of these activities are subject to the uncertainties associated with international business operations, including global laws and regulations, trade barriers, economic sanctions, tax regulations, import and export regulations, duties and tariffs and other trade restrictions, changes in trade policies, anti-corruption laws, foreign governmental regulations, potential vulnerability of and reduced protection for ip, longer receivable collection periods and disruptions or delays in production or shipments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. for example, on march 8, 2016, the u.s. department of commerce added zte corporation (zte) to its "entity list" and placed certain export restrictions on zte and its suppliers. although the u.s. department of commerce and zte reached a settlement effective on march 23, 2017, which removed zte from the entity list, in april 2018, the u.s. department of commerce issued a denial order against zte. unless interim relief is provided or zte reaches another settlement with the u.s. department of commerce, this restriction may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. additional factors that could adversely affect us due to our international operations include rising oil prices and increased costs, or limited supply of other natural resources. moreover, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected in the event of political conflicts, economic crises or changes in international relations affecting countries where our main wafer providers, warehouses, end customers and contract manufacturers who provide assembly and test services worldwide, are located. for example, the united kingdom's pending exit from the european union, commonly referred to as "brexit", has led to significant instability and uncertainty in such regions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, in the first half of 2018, the u.s and china began threatening to impose tariffs on each other's products, leading to fears of a trade war, which, if were to materialize, could result in general economic downturn or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business. because we have international business and operations, we are vulnerable to the economic conditions of the countries in which we operate and currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. in addition to our u.s. operations, we also have significant international operations, including foreign sales offices to support our international customers and distributors, our regional headquarters in ireland and singapore and an r&amp;d site in india. sales and operations outside of the u.s. subject us to the risks associated with conducting business in foreign economic and regulatory environments. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in countries in which we do significant business or by changes in foreign currency exchange rates affecting those countries. we derive more than half of our revenues from international sales, primarily in the asia pacific region, europe and japan where economic weaknesses have adversely affected our revenues in the past. sales to all direct oems and distributors are denominated in u.s. dollars. while the recent movements of the euro and yen exchange rates against the u.s. dollar had no material impact on our business, increased volatility could impact our european and japanese customers. currency instability and volatility and disruptions in the credit and capital markets may increase credit risks for some of our customers and may impair our customers' ability to repay existing obligations. for example, the united kingdom's 2016 referendum vote to approve, "brexit", has created economic uncertainty and currency volatility in the european union. increased currency volatility could also positively or negatively impact our foreign-currency-denominated costs, assets and liabilities. in addition, any devaluation of the u.s. dollar 19 table of contents relative to other foreign currencies may increase the operating expenses of our foreign subsidiaries adversely affecting our results of operations. furthermore, because we are increasingly dependent on the global economy, instability in worldwide economic environments occasioned, for example, directly or indirectly by political instability (such as due to brexit), terrorist activity, u.s. or other military actions, changes to u.s. domestic and foreign policy and international sanctions or other diplomatic actions (potentially including sanctions adopted or under consideration by the u.s. or european union with respect to russia or russian individuals or businesses), could adversely impact economic activity and lead to a contraction of capital spending by our customers generally or in specific regions. any or all of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and changes in credit rating and in the market values of our portfolio investments which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. our cash, short-term and long-term investments represent significant assets that may be subject to fluctuating or even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements, changes in credit rating and financial market conditions. global credit market disruptions and economic slowdown and uncertainty have in the past negatively impacted the values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities. the global credit and capital markets may again experience significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system, uncertainty related to global economic conditions and concerns regarding sovereign financial stability. therefore, there is a risk that we may incur other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments should credit market conditions deteriorate or the underlying assets fail to perform as anticipated. our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair values of our debt securities was judged to be other than temporary. furthermore, we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or financial market conditions. our failure to protect and defend our ip could impair our ability to compete effectively. we rely upon patent, copyright, trade secret, mask work and trademark laws to protect our ip. we cannot provide assurance that such ip rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, violated, circumvented or challenged. from time to time, third parties, including our competitors, have asserted against us patent, copyright or other ip rights to technologies that are important to us. third parties may attempt to misappropriate our ip through electronic or other means or assert infringement claims against us or parties we have agreed to indemnify. such assertions by third parties may result in costly litigation, indemnity claims or other legal actions, and we may not prevail in such matters or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. this could result in the loss of our ability to import and sell our products or require us to pay costly royalties to third parties in connection with sales of our products. any infringement claim, indemnification claim, or impairment or loss of use of our ip could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our ability to design and introduce new products in a timely manner is dependent upon third-party ip. in the design and development of new products and product enhancements, we rely on third-party intellectual property such as software development tools and hardware testing tools. furthermore, certain product features may rely on intellectual property acquired from third parties, including hardware and software tools and products. the design requirements necessary to meet future consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from semiconductor products may exceed the capabilities of the third-party intellectual property or development tools that are available to us. in addition, hardware and software tools and products procured from third parties may contain design or manufacturing defects, including flaws that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our products. if the third-party intellectual property that we use becomes unavailable or fails to produce designs that meet consumer demands, our business could be adversely affected. any failure of our information technology systems to function properly could result in business disruption. we rely in part on various information technology (it) systems to manage our operations, including, but not limited to, financial reporting, and we regularly evaluate these systems and make changes to improve them as necessary. consequently, we periodically implement new, or upgrade or enhance existing, operational and it systems, procedures and controls. any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to record and report financial, management, or operational information on a timely and accurate basis. in addition, hardware and software tools and products procured from third parties included in our it systems could contain design or manufacturing defects, including flaws that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our it systems. these systems are also subject to power and telecommunication outages or other general system failures. failure of our it systems or difficulties in managing them could result in business disruption. 20 table of contents cyber-attacks and data breaches could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. security breaches, including cyber-attacks, phishing attacks or attempts to misappropriate or compromise confidential or proprietary information or sabotage enterprise it systems, are becoming increasingly frequent and more sophisticated. we depend on the uninterrupted operation of our it systems to manage our operations, store and retrieve business and financial data and facilitate internal communications and communications with customers, subcontractors, suppliers and distribution partners. we experience security incidents of varying degrees on an ongoing basis. we take steps to detect and investigate any security incidents and prevent their recurrence, but, in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or sabotage networks and systems change frequently, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate protections. these security incidents may involve unauthorized access, misuse or disclosure of intellectual property or confidential or proprietary information regarding our business or that of our customers or business partners. we also may be subject to unauthorized access to our it systems through a security breach or cyber-attack. in the past there have been attempts by third parties to penetrate and/or infect our network and systems with malicious software in an effort to gain access to our network and systems. recently, several large organizations have been infected by ransomware, through which an attacker gains access to the organization's computer files, renders them temporarily inaccessible and threatens to permanently delete them if a cash ransom is not paid by a specified deadline. third parties may continue to attempt to fraudulently induce employees, users, or customers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our network and systems. the it systems of our customers, suppliers, and distribution partners and the links between our it systems and our customers are subject to the same risks as those of our it systems. in the event of a security breach, our business and reputation could be harmed and we could be subject to legal and regulatory claims which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. acquisitions and strategic investments present risks, and we may not realize the goals that were contemplated at the time of a transaction. in the past, we have acquired technology companies whose products complement our products. we also have made a number of strategic investments in other technology companies. we may make similar acquisitions and strategic investments in the future, which present risks, including: our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management's attention may be diverted by investment, acquisition, transition or integration activities; an acquisition or strategic investment may not further our business strategy as we expected, and we may not integrate an acquired company or technology as successfully as we expected; our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by claims or liabilities that we assume from an acquired company or technology or that are otherwise related to an acquisition; we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines; we may have higher than anticipated costs in continuing support and development of acquired products, and in general and administrative functions that support such products; our strategic investments may not perform as expected, and we may be required to recognize a loss on any or all of our strategic investments; and we may experience unexpected changes in how we are required to account for our acquisitions and strategic investments pursuant to u.s. generally accepted accounting principles (gaap). the occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions or strategic investments. if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls, our stock price could be adversely affected. we are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (the sarbanes-oxley act). our controls necessary for continued compliance with the sarbanes-oxley act may not operate effectively at all times and may result in a material weakness disclosure. the identification of material weaknesses in internal control, if any, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements and could cause investors to lose confidence and our stock price to drop. 21 table of contents we compete with others to attract and retain key personnel, and any loss of, or inability to attract, such personnel would harm us. we depend on the efforts and abilities of certain key members of management and other technical personnel. our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to retain, develop and transition such personnel and attract and retain other highly qualified personnel, particularly product engineers. competition for such personnel is intense and we may not be successful in hiring or retaining new or existing qualified personnel. changes to the u.s. immigration laws may also impact the availability of qualified personnel. from time to time we have effected restructurings that eliminate a number of positions. even if such personnel are not directly affected by the restructuring effort, such terminations can have a negative impact on morale and our ability to attract and hire new qualified personnel in the future. if we are unable to retain or develop existing qualified personnel or are unable to hire new qualified personnel, as needed, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. further, changes to our qualified personnel, including key members of management, may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully assimilate key new hires, or to successfully retain, develop and transition promoted employees, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. unfavorable results of legal proceedings could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. from time to time we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business. the amount of damages alleged in certain legal claims may be significant. certain other claims involving the company are not yet resolved, including those that are discussed under "note 16. litigation settlement and contingencies" to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. "financial statements and supplementary data" of this form 10-k, and additional claims may arise in the future. results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. regardless of its merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention and we may enter into material settlements to avoid these risks. entering into settlements may result in payment of significant amounts which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operation results. should we fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against us, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that would materially and adversely affect a portion of our business and might materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. our products could have defects which could result in reduced revenues and claims against us. we develop complex and evolving products that include both hardware and software. despite our testing efforts and those of our subcontractors, defects may be discovered in existing or new products. such defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair or replacement costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with customers. subject to certain terms and conditions, we have agreed to compensate certain customers for limited specified costs they actually incur in the event our hardware products experience epidemic failure. as a result, epidemic failure and other performance problems could result in claims against us or the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and would likely harm our business. our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. in addition, we could be subject to product liability claims. a product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly to defend. product liability risks are particularly significant with respect to aerospace, automotive and medical applications because of the risk of serious harm to users of these products. any product liability claim, whether or not determined in our favor, could result in significant expense, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and harm our business. 22 table of contents in preparing our financial statements, we make good faith estimates and judgments that may change or turn out to be erroneous. in preparing our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s., we must make estimates and judgments in applying our critical accounting policies. those estimates and judgments have a significant impact on the results we report in our consolidated financial statements. the most difficult estimates and subjective judgments that we make concern valuation of marketable and non-marketable securities, revenue recognition, inventories, long-lived assets including acquisition-related intangibles, goodwill, taxes and stock-based compensation. we base our estimates on historical experience, input from outside experts and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. we also have other key accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult, but which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial reporting. actual results may differ materially from these estimates. if these estimates or their related assumptions change, our operating results for the periods in which we revise our estimates or assumptions could be adversely and materially affected. our failure to comply with the requirements of the export administration regulations (ear) and the international traffic and arms regulations (itar) could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our fpgas and related technologies are subject to ear, which are administered by the u.s. department of commerce. in addition, we may, from time to time, receive technical data from third parties that is subject to the itar, which are administered by the u.s. department of state. ear and itar govern the export and re-export of these fpgas, the transfer of related technologies, whether in the u.s. or abroad, and the provision of services. we are required to maintain an internal compliance program and security infrastructure to meet ear and itar requirements. an inability to obtain the required export licenses, or to predict when they will be granted, increases the difficulties of forecasting shipments. in addition, security or compliance program failures that could result in penalties or a loss of export privileges, as well as stringent licensing restrictions that may make our products less attractive to overseas customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. our inability to effectively control the sale of our products on the gray market could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. we market and sell our products directly to oems and through authorized third-party distributors which helps to ensure that products delivered to our customers are authentic and properly handled. from time to time, customers may purchase products bearing our name from the unauthorized "gray market." these parts may be counterfeit, salvaged or re-marked parts, or parts that have been altered, mishandled, or damaged. gray market products result in shadow inventory that is not visible to us, thus making it difficult to forecast supply or demand. also, when gray market products enter the market, we and our authorized distributors may compete with brokers of these discounted products, which can adversely affect demand for our products and negatively impact our margins. in addition, our reputation with customers may be negatively impacted when gray market products bearing our name fail or are found to be substandard. the conflict minerals provisions of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act could result in additional costs and liabilities. in accordance with the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, the sec established disclosure and reporting requirements for companies whose products incorporate "conflict" minerals mined from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries, regardless of whether such products are manufactured by those companies or by third parties. these requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of our semiconductor products. the costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements include those for due diligence in regard to the sources of any conflict minerals used in our products, remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. we may face reputational challenges if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all minerals used in our products through the due diligence process we implement. moreover, some of our customers may require that all of the components of our products are certified as conflict-free, and we may be unable to verify the origin of the raw materials used in our products to the extent necessary to make this certification. 23 table of contents exposure to greater-than-anticipated income tax liabilities, changes in tax rules and regulations, changes in interpretation of tax rules and regulations, or unfavorable assessments from tax audits could affect our effective tax rates, financial condition and results of operations. we are a u.s.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple u.s. and foreign tax jurisdictions. our income tax obligations could be affected by many factors, including but not limited to changes to our corporate operating structure, intercompany arrangements and tax planning strategies. our income tax expense is computed based on tax rates at the time of the respective financial period. our future effective tax rates, financial condition and results from operations could be unfavorably affected by changes in the tax rates in jurisdictions where our income is earned, by changes in the tax rules and regulations or the interpretation of tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets. recently enacted u.s. tax legislation significantly changed the taxation of u.s.-based multinational corporations, by, among other things, reducing the u.s. corporate income tax rate, adopting elements of a territorial tax system, assessing a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred, and imposing new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings. the legislation is unclear in some respects and will require interpretations and implementing regulations by the internal revenue service, as well as state tax authorities, and the legislation could be subject to amendments and technical corrections, any of which could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts of the legislation. a significant portion of our earnings are earned by our subsidiaries outside the u.s. changes to the taxation of certain foreign earnings resulting from the newly enacted u.s. tax legislation, along with the state tax impact of these changes, may have an adverse effect on our effective tax rate. furthermore, changes to the taxation of undistributed foreign earnings could change our future intentions regarding reinvestment of such earnings. the foregoing items could have a material effect on our business, cash flow, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, we are subject to examinations of our income tax returns by domestic and foreign tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that may result from the current examinations. there can be no assurance that the final determination of any of these examinations will not have an adverse effect on our effective tax rates, financial condition and results of operations. considerable amounts of shares of our common stock are available for issuance under our equity incentive plans, and significant issuances in the future may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. as of march 31, 2018 we had 2.00 billion authorized shares of common stock, of which 253.4 million shares were outstanding. in addition, 27.7 million shares of common stock were reserved for issuance pursuant to our equity incentive plans and amended and restated 1990 employee qualified stock purchase plan (espp). the availability of substantial amounts of our common stock resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity incentive plans, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. we have indebtedness that could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. the aggregate amount of our consolidated indebtedness as of march 31, 2018 was $1.75 billion (principal amount), which consists of $500.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 2.125% notes due 2019 (2019 notes), $500.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 3.000% notes due 2021 (2021 notes) and $750.0 million principal amount of our 2.950% senior notes due 2024 (2024 notes). we also may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our indebtedness may: make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including making scheduled principal and interest payments on the debentures and our other indebtedness; limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; require us to use a portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments; limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. 24 table of contents our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. the agreements governing the 2019 notes, 2021 notes and 2024 notes contain covenants that may adversely affect our ability to operate our business. the indentures governing the 2019 notes, 2021 notes and 2024 notes contain various covenants limiting our and our subsidiaries' ability to, among other things: create certain liens on principal property or the capital stock of certain subsidiaries; enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions with respect to principal property; and consolidate or merge with, or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all our assets, taken as a whole, to another person. a failure to comply with these covenants and other provisions in these indentures could result in events of default under the indentures, which could permit acceleration of the 2019 notes, the 2021 notes and the 2024 notes. any required repayment as a result of such acceleration could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 41 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our investment portfolio, which consists of fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $2.18 billion as of march 31, 2018 . our primary aim with our investment portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal and meeting liquidity needs. our investment portfolio includes, mortgage-backed securities, commercial mortgage-backed securities, financial institution securities, non-financial institution securities, student loan auction rate securities, u.s. and foreign government and agency securities, asset-backed securities, bank loans and debt mutual funds. in 41 table of contents accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer based upon the issuer's credit rating. these securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. a hypothetical 100 basis-point (one percentage point) increase or decrease in interest rates compared to rates at march 31, 2018 and april 1, 2017 would have affected the fair value of our investment portfolio by approximately $40.0 million and $60.0 million , respectively. credit market risk the global credit markets may experience adverse conditions that negatively impact the values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities. the global credit and capital markets may experience significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system, uncertainty related to global economic conditions and concerns regarding sovereign financial stability. therefore, there is a risk that we may incur other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments should credit market conditions deteriorate. see "note 4. financial instruments" to our consolidated financial statements, included inrisk factors 15 risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks to the company. our business operations or financial condition could be impaired by risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company, or that the company's management does not currently consider material. if any of the risks described below were to occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 15 table of contents our success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products and our failure to do so would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. our success depends in large part on our ability to develop and introduce new products that address customer requirements and compete effectively on the basis of price, density, functionality, power consumption and performance. consolidation in our industry may increasingly result in our competitors having greater resources, or other synergies, that provide them with a competitive advantage in those regards. the success of new product introductions is dependent upon several factors, including: timely completion of new product designs; ability to generate new design opportunities and design wins; availability of specialized field application engineering resources supporting demand creation and customer adoption of new products; ability to utilize advanced manufacturing process technologies on circuit geometries of 28nm and smaller; achieving acceptable yields; ability to obtain adequate production capacity from our wafer foundries and assembly and test subcontractors; ability to obtain advanced packaging; availability and completeness of supporting software design tools; utilization of predefined ip logic; customer acceptance of advanced features in our new products; ability of our customers to complete their product designs and bring them to market; and market acceptance of our customers' products. our product development efforts may not be successful, our new products may not achieve industry acceptance, or we may not achieve the necessary volume of production that would lead to further per unit cost reductions. revenues relating to our mature products are expected to decline in the future, which is normal for our product life cycles. as a result, we may be increasingly dependent on revenues derived from design wins for our newer products as well as anticipated cost reductions in the manufacture of our current products. we rely primarily on obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture of existing products, and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and other price/performance factors that enable us to increase revenues while maintaining consistent margins. to the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner, or to the extent that our products do not achieve market acceptance at prices with higher margins, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we rely on independent foundries for the manufacture of all of our products and a manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could adversely affect our operations. most of our wafers are manufactured in taiwan by tsmc and umc. we also have wafers manufactured in south korea by samsung electronics co., ltd. terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined through periodic negotiations with these wafer foundries, which usually result in short-term agreements that do not provide for long-term supply or allocation commitments. we are dependent on these foundries to supply the substantial majority of our wafers. we rely on tsmc, umc and our other foundries to produce wafers with competitive performance attributes. therefore, the foundries, particularly tsmc which manufactures our newest products, must be able to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies and increased wafer sizes, produce wafers at acceptable yields and deliver them in a timely manner. furthermore, we cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our wafers will offer us competitive pricing terms or other commercial terms important to our business. we cannot guarantee that our foundries will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies or difficulties due to limitations of new and existing process technologies. for example, we may experience supply shortages due to the difficulties foundries may encounter if they must rapidly increase their production capacities from low utilization levels to high utilization levels because of an unexpected increase in demand. furthermore, we cannot guarantee that the foundries will be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products or that they will continue to manufacture a given product for the full life of the product. we could also experience supply shortages due to very strong demand for our products, or a surge in demand for semiconductors in general, which may lead to tightening of foundry capacity across the industry. in addition, weak economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of the foundries and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us. the insolvency of a foundry or any significant manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity would disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. earthquakes or other natural disasters could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 16 table of contents our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes or other natural disasters such as typhoons, tsunamis, volcano eruptions, fires or floods, as well as disruptions in access to adequate supplies of electricity, natural gas or water. the independent foundries, upon which we rely to manufacture our products, as well as our california and singapore facilities, are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. tsmc's and umc's foundries in taiwan and our assembly and test partners in other regions as well as many of our operations in california are located in areas that have been seismically active in the past and some of these areas have also been affected by other natural disasters such as typhoons. disruption of operations at these foundries and our facilities could cause delays in manufacturing and shipments of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. any catastrophic event in these locations would disrupt our operations, and our insurance may not cover losses resulting from such disruptions of our operations, thereby materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. for example, as a result of the march 2011 earthquake in japan, production at the seiko factory at sakata was halted temporarily, impacting production of some of our older devices. in addition, suppliers of wafers and substrates were forced to halt production temporarily. furthermore, natural disasters can also indirectly impact us. for example, our customers' supply of other complimentary products may be disrupted by a natural disaster and may cause them to delay orders of our products. more vertically-integrated competitors may be less exposed to some or all of these and other risks. the semiconductor industry is characterized by cyclical market patterns and a significant industry downturn could adversely affect our operating results. the semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and our financial performance has been affected by downturns in the industry. down cycles are generally characterized by price erosion and weaker demand for our products. weaker demand for our products resulting from economic conditions in the end markets we serve and reduced capital spending by our customers can result, and in the past has resulted, in excess and obsolete inventories and corresponding inventory write-downs. we attempt to identify changes in market conditions as soon as possible; however, the dynamics of the market in which we operate make prediction of and timely reaction to such events difficult. due to these and other factors, our past results are not reliable predictors of our future results. the nature of our business makes our revenues difficult to predict which could have an adverse impact on our business. in addition to the challenging market conditions we may face, we have limited visibility into the demand for our products, particularly new products, because demand for our products depends upon our products being designed into our end customers' products and those products achieving market acceptance. due to the complexity of our customers' designs, the design to volume production process for our customers requires a substantial amount of time, frequently longer than a year. in addition, other factors may affect our end customers' demand for our products, including, but not limited to, end customer program delays and the ability of end customers to secure other complementary products. we also are dependent upon "turns," orders received and turned for shipment in the same quarter. these factors make it difficult for us to forecast future sales and project quarterly revenues. the difficulty in forecasting future sales impairs our ability to project our inventory requirements, which could result, and in the past has resulted, in inventory write-downs or failure to meet customer product demands in a timely manner. in addition, difficulty in forecasting revenues compromises our ability to provide forward-looking revenue and earnings guidance. if we are not able to compete successfully in our industry, our financial results and future prospects will be adversely affected. our products now compete in several areas of the semiconductor industry, an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continual price erosion. we expect continued competition from our primary pld competitors such as intel corporation (intel), lattice semiconductor corporation (lattice) and microsemi corporation (microsemi, acquired by microchip), and from assp vendors such as broadcom corporation (broadcom), marvell technology group, ltd. (marvell) and texas instruments incorporated (texas instruments), as well as from companies such as nvidia with whom we historically have not competed. in addition, we expect continued competition from the asic market, which has been ongoing since the inception of fpgas. we believe that important competitive factors in the logic ic industry include: product pricing; time-to-market; product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density; field upgradeability; adaptability of products to specific applications; ease of use and functionality of software design tools; availability and functionality of predefined ip logic; completeness of applicable software solutions; 17 table of contents adherence to industry-standard programming environments; inventory and supply chain management; access to leading-edge process technology and assembly capacity; ability to provide timely customer service and support; and access to advanced packaging technology. our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high-volume, low-cost and low-power applications as well as high-performance, high-density applications. however, we may not be successful in executing this strategy. in addition, we anticipate continued pressure from our customers to reduce prices, which may outpace our ability to lower the cost for established products. other competitors include manufacturers of: high-density programmable logic products characterized by fpga-type architectures; high-volume and low-cost fpgas as programmable replacements for asics and assps; asics and assps with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; high-speed, low-density complex programmable logic devices; high-performance digital signal processing devices; products with embedded processors; products with embedded multi-gigabit transceivers; discrete general-purpose gpus targeting data center and automotive applications; other new or emerging programmable logic products; and large enterprises, like hyperscalers, that have the resources to develop proprietary semiconductors. several companies have introduced products that compete with ours or have announced their intention to sell pld products. to the extent that our efforts to compete are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the benefits of programmable logic have attracted a number of competitors to this segment. we recognize that different applications require different programmable technologies, and we are developing architectures, processes and products to meet these varying customer needs. recognizing the increasing importance of standard software solutions, we have developed common software design tools that support the full range of our ic products. we believe that automation and ease of design are significant competitive factors in this segment. we could also face competition from our licensees. in the past we have granted limited rights to other companies with respect to certain aspects of our older technology, and we may do so in the future. granting such rights may enable these companies to manufacture and market products that may be competitive with some of our older products. increased costs of wafers and materials, or shortages in wafers and materials, could adversely impact our gross margins and lead to reduced revenues. if greater demand for wafers is not offset by an increase in foundry capacity, market demand for wafers or production and assembly materials increases, or if a supplier of our wafers or other materials ceases or suspends operations, our supply of wafers and other materials could become limited. such shortages raise the likelihood of potential wafer price increases, wafer shortages or shortages in materials at production and test facilities, resulting in potential inability to address customer product demands in a timely manner. for example, in 2011, when certain suppliers located in japan were forced to temporarily halt production as the result of a natural disaster, this resulted in a tightening of supply for those materials. such shortages of wafers and materials as well as increases in wafer or materials prices could adversely affect our gross margins and would adversely affect our ability to meet customer demands and lead to reduced revenue. we depend on distributors, primarily avnet, to generate a significant portion of our sales and complete order fulfillment. resale of product through avnet accounted for 45% of our worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2019 , and, as of march 30, 2019 , avnet accounted for 37% of our total net accounts receivable. any adverse change to our relationship with avnet or our other distributors could have a material impact on our business. furthermore, if a key distributor materially defaulted on a contract or otherwise failed to perform, our business and financial results would suffer. in addition, we are subject to concentrations of credit risk in our trade accounts receivable, which includes accounts of our distributors. a significant reduction of effort by a distributor to sell our products or a material change in our relationship with one or more distributors may reduce our access to certain end customers and adversely affect our ability to sell our products. 18 table of contents in addition, the financial health of our distributors and our continuing relationships with them are important to our success. unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health of some of these distributors, particularly our smaller distributors. this could increase our credit risk exposure relating to the insolvency of certain distributors, the inability of distributors to obtain credit to finance the purchase of our products, or delayed payment for such purchases. our business could be harmed if the financial health of these distributors impaired their performance and we were unable to secure alternate distributors. we are dependent on independent subcontractors for most of our assembly and test services, and unavailability or disruption of these services could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. we are dependent on subcontractors to provide semiconductor assembly, substrate, test and shipment services. any (i) prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, (ii) disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, (iii) delays in stabilizing manufacturing processes and ramping up volume for new products, (iv) transitions to new service providers, or (v) other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands. in addition, unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of these subcontractors and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us. these factors would result in reduced net revenues and could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. a number of factors, including our inventory strategy, can impact our gross margins. a number of factors can cause our gross margins to fluctuate, including yield, wafer pricing, product mix, market acceptance of our new products, competitive pricing dynamics, licensing costs, geographic and/or market segment pricing strategies. in addition, forecasting our gross margins is difficult because a significant portion of our business is based on turns within the same quarter. while our overall inventory levels fluctuate over time, the inventory of newer product lines may be higher than other products due to a planned increase in safety stock in anticipation of future revenue growth. in the event demand does not materialize, we may be subject to incremental obsolescence costs. in addition, future product cost reductions could have impact on our inventory valuation as well as our operating results. reductions in the average selling prices of our products could have a negative impact on our gross margins. the average selling prices of our products generally decline as the products mature. we seek to offset the decrease in selling prices through yield improvement, manufacturing cost reductions and increased unit sales. we also continue to develop higher value products or product features that increase the average selling prices of our products, or slow the decline of such prices. however, there is no guarantee that our ongoing efforts will be successful or that they will keep pace with the decline in selling prices of our products, which could ultimately lead to a decline in our revenues and gross margins. general negative economic conditions and any related deterioration in the global business environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. if weak economic conditions happen, there may be a number of negative effects on our business, including customers or potential customers reducing or delaying orders, the insolvency of key suppliers, potentially causing production delays, the inability of customers to obtain credit, and the insolvency of one or more customers. any of these effects could impact our ability to effectively manage inventory levels and collect receivables and ultimately decrease our net revenues and profitability. we are subject to the risks associated with conducting business operations outside of the u.s. which could adversely affect our business. in addition to international sales and support operations and development activities, we purchase our wafers from foreign foundries, have our commercial products assembled, packaged and tested by subcontractors located outside the u.s. and utilize third party warehouse operators to store and manage inventory levels for certain of our products. all of these activities are subject to the uncertainties associated with international business operations, including global laws and regulations, trade barriers, economic sanctions, tax regulations, import and export regulations, duties and tariffs and other trade restrictions, changes in trade policies, anti-corruption laws, foreign governmental regulations, potential vulnerability of and reduced protection for ip, longer receivable collection periods and disruptions or delays in production or shipments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. for example, zte corporation (zte) has been subject to trade restrictions under two denial orders issued by the u.s. department of commerce in recent years and may become subject to additional denial orders. in 2018, the u.s. and china also began to impose partial tariffs on each other's products, leading to concerns of an escalating 19 table of contents trade war, which, if were to fully materialize, could result in general economic downturn or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, the u.s. government has and may continue to focus on the business practices of specific foreign companies, including large technology companies based in china, which may result in future u.s. government actions impacting our ability to do business with such companies. additional factors that could adversely affect us due to our international operations include rising oil prices and increased costs, or limited supply of other natural resources. moreover, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected in the event of political conflicts, economic crises or changes in international relations affecting countries where our main wafer providers, warehouses, end customers and contract manufacturers who provide assembly and test services worldwide, are located. for example, the united kingdom's pending exit from the european union, commonly referred to as "brexit," has led to significant instability and uncertainty in such regions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. because we have international business and operations, we are vulnerable to the economic conditions of the countries in which we operate and currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. in addition to our u.s. operations, we also have significant international operations, including foreign sales offices to support our international customers and distributors, our regional headquarters in ireland and singapore and an r&amp;d site in india. sales and operations outside of the u.s. subject us to the risks associated with conducting business in foreign economic and regulatory environments. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in countries in which we do significant business or by changes in foreign currency exchange rates affecting those countries. we derive more than half of our revenues from international sales, primarily in the asia pacific region, europe and japan where economic weaknesses have adversely affected our revenues in the past. sales to all direct oems and distributors are denominated in u.s. dollars. while the recent movements of the euro and yen exchange rates against the u.s. dollar had no material impact on our business, increased volatility could impact our european and japanese customers. currency instability and volatility and disruptions in the credit and capital markets may increase credit risks for some of our customers and may impair our customers' ability to repay existing obligations. for example, the united kingdom's 2016 referendum vote to approve "brexit" has created economic uncertainty and currency volatility in the european union. increased currency volatility could also positively or negatively impact our foreign-currency-denominated costs, assets and liabilities. in addition, any devaluation of the u.s. dollar relative to other foreign currencies may increase the operating expenses of our foreign subsidiaries adversely affecting our results of operations. furthermore, because we are increasingly dependent on the global economy, instability in worldwide economic environments occasioned, for example, directly or indirectly by political instability (such as due to brexit), terrorist activity, u.s. or other military actions, changes to u.s. domestic and foreign policy and international sanctions or other diplomatic actions (potentially including sanctions adopted or under consideration by the u.s. or european union with respect to russia or russian individuals or businesses), could adversely impact economic activity and lead to a contraction of capital spending by our customers generally or in specific regions. any or all of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and changes in credit risk which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations as it relates to the market value of our investment portfolio and interest rate swap contracts. our cash, short-term and long-term investments represent significant assets that may be subject to fluctuating or even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements, changes in credit risk and financial market conditions. global credit market disruptions and economic slowdown and uncertainty have in the past negatively impacted the values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities. the global credit and capital markets may again experience significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system, uncertainty related to global economic conditions and concerns regarding sovereign financial stability. therefore, there is a risk that we may incur other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments should credit market conditions deteriorate or the underlying assets fail to perform as anticipated. our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair values of our debt securities was judged to be other than temporary. furthermore, we may suffer losses in principal on our investments including our interest rate swap contracts if we are forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or financial market conditions. our failure to protect and defend our ip could impair our ability to compete effectively. we rely upon patent, copyright, trade secret, mask work and trademark laws to protect our ip. we cannot provide assurance that such ip rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, violated, circumvented or challenged. from time to time, third parties, including our competitors, have asserted against us patent, copyright or other ip rights to technologies 20 table of contents that are important to us. third parties may attempt to misappropriate our ip through electronic or other means or assert infringement claims against us or parties we have agreed to indemnify. such assertions by third parties may result in costly litigation, indemnity claims or other legal actions, and we may not prevail in such matters or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. this could result in the loss of our ability to import and sell our products or require us to pay costly royalties to third parties in connection with sales of our products. any infringement claim, indemnification claim, or impairment or loss of use of our ip could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our ability to design and introduce new products in a timely manner is dependent upon third-party ip. in the design and development of new products and product enhancements, we rely on third-party intellectual property such as software development tools and hardware testing tools. furthermore, certain product features may rely on intellectual property acquired from third parties, including hardware and software tools and products. the design requirements necessary to meet future consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from semiconductor products may exceed the capabilities of the third-party intellectual property or development tools that are available to us. in addition, hardware and software tools and products procured from third parties may contain design or manufacturing defects, including flaws that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our products. if the third-party intellectual property that we use becomes unavailable or fails to produce designs that meet consumer demands, our business could be adversely affected. any failure of our information technology systems to function properly could result in business disruption. we rely in part on various information technology (it) systems to manage our operations, including, but not limited to, financial reporting, and we regularly evaluate these systems and make changes to improve them as necessary. consequently, we periodically implement new, or upgrade or enhance existing, operational and it systems, procedures and controls. any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to record and report financial, management, or operational information on a timely and accurate basis. in addition, hardware and software tools and products procured from third parties included in our it systems could contain design or manufacturing defects, including flaws that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our it systems. these systems are also subject to power and telecommunication outages or other general system failures. failure of our it systems or difficulties in managing them could result in business disruption. cyber-attacks and data breaches could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. security breaches, including cyber-attacks, phishing attacks or attempts to misappropriate or compromise confidential or proprietary information or sabotage enterprise it systems, are becoming increasingly frequent and more sophisticated. we depend on the uninterrupted operation of our it systems to manage our operations, store and retrieve business and financial data and facilitate internal communications and communications with customers, subcontractors, suppliers and distribution partners. we experience security incidents of varying degrees on an ongoing basis. we take steps to detect and investigate any security incidents and prevent their recurrence, but, in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or sabotage networks and systems change frequently, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate protections. these security incidents may involve unauthorized access, misuse or disclosure of intellectual property or confidential or proprietary information regarding our business or that of our customers or business partners. we also may be subject to unauthorized access to our it systems through a security breach or cyber-attack. in the past there have been attempts by third parties to penetrate and/or infect our network and systems with malicious software in an effort to gain access to our network and systems. recently, several large organizations have been infected by ransomware, through which an attacker gains access to the organization's computer files, renders them temporarily inaccessible and threatens to permanently delete them if a cash ransom is not paid by a specified deadline. third parties may continue to attempt to fraudulently induce employees, users, or customers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our network and systems. the it systems of our customers, suppliers, and distribution partners and the links between our it systems and our customers are subject to the same risks as those of our it systems. in the event of a security breach, our business and reputation could be harmed and we could be subject to legal and regulatory claims which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. acquisitions and strategic investments present risks, and we may not realize the goals that were contemplated at the time of a transaction. we have acquired technology companies whose products complement our products. we also have made a number of strategic investments in other technology companies. we may make similar acquisitions and strategic investments in the future, which present risks, including: 21 table of contents our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management's attention may be diverted by investment, acquisition, transition or integration activities; an acquisition or strategic investment may not further our business strategy as we expected, and we may not integrate an acquired company or technology as successfully as we expected; our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by claims or liabilities that we assume from an acquired company or technology or that are otherwise related to an acquisition; we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines; we may have higher than anticipated costs in continuing support and development of acquired products, and in general and administrative functions that support such products; our strategic investments may not perform as expected, and we may be required to recognize a loss on any or all of our strategic investments; and we may experience unexpected changes in how we are required to account for our acquisitions and strategic investments pursuant to u.s. generally accepted accounting principles (gaap). the occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions or strategic investments. if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls, our stock price could be adversely affected. we are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (the sarbanes-oxley act). our controls necessary for continued compliance with the sarbanes-oxley act may not operate effectively at all times and may result in a material weakness disclosure. the identification of material weaknesses in internal control, if any, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements and could cause investors to lose confidence and our stock price to drop. we compete with others to attract and retain key personnel, and any loss of, or inability to attract, such personnel would harm us. we depend on the efforts and abilities of certain key members of management and other technical personnel. our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to retain, develop and transition such personnel and attract and retain other highly qualified personnel, particularly product engineers. competition for such personnel is intense and we may not be successful in hiring or retaining new or existing qualified personnel. changes to the u.s. immigration laws may also impact the availability of qualified personnel. from time to time we have effected restructurings that eliminate a number of positions. even if such personnel are not directly affected by the restructuring effort, such terminations can have a negative impact on morale and our ability to attract and hire new qualified personnel in the future. if we are unable to retain or develop existing qualified personnel or are unable to hire new qualified personnel, as needed, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. further, changes to our qualified personnel, including key members of management, may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully assimilate key new hires, or to successfully retain, develop and transition promoted employees, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. unfavorable results of legal proceedings could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. from time to time we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business. the amount of damages alleged in certain legal claims may be significant. certain other claims involving the company are not yet resolved, including those that are discussed under "note 16. litigation settlement and contingencies" to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. "financial statements and supplementary data" of this form 10-k, and additional claims may arise in the future. results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. regardless of its merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention and we may enter into material settlements to avoid these risks. entering into settlements may result in payment of significant amounts which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operation results. should we fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against us, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that would materially and adversely affect a portion of our business and might materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. our products could have defects which could result in reduced revenues and claims against us. we develop complex and evolving products that include both hardware and software. despite our testing efforts and those of our subcontractors, defects may be discovered in existing or new products. such defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, 22 table of contents support and repair or replacement costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with customers. subject to certain terms and conditions, we have agreed to compensate certain customers for limited specified costs they actually incur in the event our hardware products experience epidemic failure. as a result, epidemic failure and other performance problems could result in claims against us or the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and would likely harm our business. our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. in addition, we could be subject to product liability claims. a product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly to defend. product liability risks are particularly significant with respect to aerospace, automotive and medical applications because of the risk of serious harm to users of these products. any product liability claim, whether or not determined in our favor, could result in significant expense, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and harm our business. in preparing our financial statements, we make good faith estimates and judgments that may change or turn out to be erroneous. in preparing our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s., we must make estimates and judgments in applying our critical accounting policies. those estimates and judgments have a significant impact on the results we report in our consolidated financial statements. the most difficult estimates and subjective judgments that we make concern valuation of marketable and non-marketable securities, revenue recognition, inventories, long-lived assets including acquisition-related intangibles, goodwill, taxes and stock-based compensation. we base our estimates on historical experience, input from outside experts and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. we also have other key accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult, but which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial reporting. actual results may differ materially from these estimates. if these estimates or their related assumptions change, our operating results for the periods in which we revise our estimates or assumptions could be adversely and materially affected. our failure to comply with the requirements of the export administration regulations (ear) and the international traffic and arms regulations (itar) could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our fpgas and related technologies are subject to ear, which are administered by the u.s. department of commerce. in addition, we may, from time to time, receive technical data from third parties that is subject to the itar, which are administered by the u.s. department of state. ear and itar govern the export and re-export of these fpgas, the transfer of related technologies, whether in the u.s. or abroad, and the provision of services. we are required to maintain an internal compliance program and security infrastructure to meet ear and itar requirements. an inability to obtain the required export licenses, or to predict when they will be granted, increases the difficulties of forecasting shipments. in addition, security or compliance program failures that could result in penalties or a loss of export privileges, as well as stringent licensing restrictions that may make our products less attractive to overseas customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. our inability to effectively control the sale of our products on the gray market could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. we market and sell our products directly to oems and through authorized third-party distributors which helps to ensure that products delivered to our customers are authentic and properly handled. from time to time, customers may purchase products bearing our name from the unauthorized "gray market." these parts may be counterfeit, salvaged or re-marked parts, or parts that have been altered, mishandled, or damaged. gray market products result in shadow inventory that is not visible to us, thus making it difficult to forecast supply or demand. also, when gray market products enter the market, we and our authorized distributors may compete with brokers of these discounted products, which can adversely affect demand for our products and negatively impact our margins. in addition, our reputation with customers may be negatively impacted when gray market products bearing our name fail or are found to be substandard. the conflict minerals provisions of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act could result in additional costs and liabilities. in accordance with the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, the sec established disclosure and reporting requirements for companies whose products incorporate "conflict" minerals mined from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries, regardless of whether such products are manufactured by those companies or by third parties. these 23 table of contents requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of our semiconductor products. the costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements include those for due diligence in regard to the sources of any conflict minerals used in our products, remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. we may face reputational challenges if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all minerals used in our products through the due diligence process we implement. moreover, some of our customers may require that all of the components of our products are certified as conflict-free, and we may be unable to verify the origin of the raw materials used in our products to the extent necessary to make this certification. exposure to greater-than-anticipated income tax liabilities, changes in tax rules and regulations, changes in interpretation of tax rules and regulations, or unfavorable assessments from tax audits could affect our effective tax rates, financial condition and results of operations. we are a u.s.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple u.s. and foreign tax jurisdictions. our income tax obligations could be affected by many factors, including but not limited to changes to our corporate operating structure, intercompany arrangements and tax planning strategies. our income tax expense is computed based on tax rates at the time of the respective financial period. our future effective tax rates, financial condition and results from operations could be unfavorably affected by changes in the tax rates in jurisdictions where our income is earned, by changes in the tax rules and regulations or the interpretation of tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets. recently enacted u.s. tax legislation significantly changed the taxation of u.s.-based multinational corporations, by, among other things, reducing the u.s. corporate income tax rate, adopting elements of a territorial tax system, assessing a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred, and imposing new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings. the legislation is unclear in some respects and will require interpretations and implementing regulations by the internal revenue service, as well as state tax authorities, and the legislation could be subject to amendments and technical corrections, any of which could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts of the legislation. a significant portion of our earnings are earned by our subsidiaries outside the u.s. changes to the taxation of certain foreign earnings resulting from the newly enacted u.s. tax legislation, along with the state tax impact of these changes, may have an adverse effect on our effective tax rate. furthermore, changes to the taxation of undistributed foreign earnings could change our future intentions regarding reinvestment of such earnings. the foregoing items could have a material effect on our business, cash flow, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, we are subject to examinations of our income tax returns by domestic and foreign tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that may result from the current examinations. there can be no assurance that the final determination of any of these examinations will not have an adverse effect on our effective tax rates, financial condition and results of operations. considerable amounts of shares of our common stock are available for issuance under our equity incentive plans, and significant issuances in the future may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. as of march 30, 2019 , we had 2.00 billion authorized shares of common stock, of which 253.9 million shares were outstanding. in addition, 30.0 million shares of common stock were reserved for issuance pursuant to our equity incentive plans and amended and restated 1990 employee qualified stock purchase plan (espp). the availability of substantial amounts of our common stock resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity incentive plans, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. we have indebtedness that could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. the aggregate amount of our consolidated indebtedness as of march 30, 2019 was $1.25 billion (principal amount), which consists of $500.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 3.000% notes due 2021 (2021 notes) and $750.0 million principal amount of our 2.950% senior notes due 2024 (2024 notes). we also may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our indebtedness may: make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including making scheduled principal and interest payments on the debentures and our other indebtedness; limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; 24 table of contents limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; require us to use a portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments; limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. the agreements governing the 2021 notes and 2024 notes contain covenants that may adversely affect our ability to operate our business. the indentures governing the 2021 notes and 2024 notes contain various covenants limiting our and our subsidiaries' ability to, among other things: create certain liens on principal property or the capital stock of certain subsidiaries; enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions with respect to principal property; and consolidate or merge with, or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all our assets, taken as a whole, to another person. a failure to comply with these covenants and other provisions in these indentures could result in events of default under the indentures, which could permit acceleration of the 2021 notes and the 2024 notes. any required repayment as a result of such acceleration could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 41 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate risk relates to certain types of investments, which consists of fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $2.65 billion as of march 30, 2019 and to our interest rate swap contracts in relation to the issuance of the 2024 notes (as our interest rate swap contracts carry a variable interest rate based on libor plus a spread). these investments include mortgage-backed securities, commercial mortgage-backed securities, financial institution securities, non-financial institution securities, u.s. and foreign government and agency securities, asset-backed securities and debt mutual funds. our primary aim with our investment portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal and meeting liquidity needs. in accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer based upon the issuer's credit rating. these securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. a hypothetical 100 basis-point (one percentage point) increase or decrease in interest rates compared to rates at march 30, 2019 and march 31, 2018 would have affected the fair value of our investment portfolio by approximately $31.0 million and $40.0 million , respectively. credit market risk the global credit markets may experience adverse conditions that negatively impact the values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities. the global credit and capital markets may experience significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system, uncertainty related to global economic conditions and concerns regarding sovereign financial stability. therefore, there is a risk that we may incur other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments should credit market conditions deteriorate. see "note 4. financial instruments" to our consolidated financial statements, included inrisk factors 16 risk factors 16 table of contents the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks to the company. our business operations or financial condition could be impaired by risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company, or that the company's management does not currently consider material. if any of the risks described below were to occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. the recent covid-19 pandemic could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the covid-19 outbreak, which has been declared a global pandemic, has led to severe disruptions in the market and the global and u.s. economies that may continue for a prolonged duration. in response, various governmental bodies and private enterprises have implemented numerous measures to contain the outbreak, such as travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter-in-place orders, and factory and office shutdowns. these measures and other public and private responses to the outbreak have impacted, and may further impact, our workforce and operations, and those of our customers, partners, vendors and suppliers. the manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including the u.s., singapore, south korea, and taiwan. each of these countries has been affected by the outbreak and has taken measures to try to contain it, and there is considerable uncertainty regarding the impact and duration of such measures and potential future measures. restrictions on our access to our manufacturing facilities or on our support operations or workforce, similar limitations for our vendors and suppliers, and disruptions of transportation, such as reduced availability of air transport, port closures and increased border controls or closures, could limit our capacity to meet customer demand. due to the spread of covid-19, we have modified our business practices, including employee travel restrictions, employee work locations, and cancellation of physical participation in non-critical meetings, events and conferences pursuant to applicable government guidelines. there is no certainty that such measures will be sufficient to mitigate the risks posed by covid-19, which could adversely impact our ability to perform critical functions, such as the research and development of new products, the manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products, and the distribution and sale of our products. the current outbreak and the efforts to control it have slowed economic activity and may trigger a recession or a period of economic slowdown. customer demand may be reduced to the extent customers experience shortages of other necessary materials and are forced to slow production of their end products (with a corresponding decline in the rate at which they purchase materials from us), or to the extent our customers experience reduced consumer demand for their end-products as consumers curtail purchases. the full extent and nature of the impact of the covid-19 pandemic and related containment measures on our business and financial performance are highly uncertain, as the situation continues to evolve. an extended period of disruption to global supply chain and economic activities due to the pandemic, as well as other factors that are currently unforeseeable, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to access sources of liquidity, as well as our financial condition and results of operations. a prolonged impact of the pandemic also could heighten many of the other risks, such as those relating to disruptions on our operations and our reliance on customers and other third parties, described in this annual report on form 10-k. our success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products and our failure to do so would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. our success depends in large part on our ability to develop and introduce new products that address customer requirements and compete effectively on the basis of price, density, functionality, power consumption and performance. consolidation in our industry may increasingly result in our competitors having greater resources, or other synergies, that provide them with a competitive advantage in those regards. the success of new product introductions is dependent upon several factors, including: timely completion of new product designs; ability to generate new design opportunities and design wins; availability of specialized field application engineering resources supporting demand creation and customer adoption of new products; ability to utilize advanced manufacturing process technologies on circuit geometries of 28nm and smaller; achieving acceptable yields; ability to obtain adequate production capacity from our wafer foundries and assembly and test subcontractors; ability to obtain advanced packaging; availability and completeness of supporting software design tools; utilization of predefined ip logic; customer acceptance of advanced features in our new products; 17 table of contents ability of our customers to complete their product designs and bring them to market; and market acceptance of our customers' products. our product development efforts may not be successful, our new products may not achieve industry acceptance, or we may not achieve the necessary volume of production that would lead to further per unit cost reductions. revenues relating to our mature products are expected to decline in the future, which is normal for our product life cycles. as a result, we may become increasingly dependent on revenues derived from design wins for our newer products as well as anticipated cost reductions in the manufacture of our current products. we rely primarily on obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture of existing products, and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and other price/performance factors that enable us to increase revenues while maintaining consistent margins. to the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner, or to the extent that our products do not achieve market acceptance at prices with higher margins, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we rely on independent foundries for the manufacture of all of our products and a manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could adversely affect our operations. most of our wafers are manufactured in taiwan by tsmc and umc. we also have wafers manufactured in south korea by samsung electronics co., ltd. terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined through periodic negotiations with these wafer foundries, which usually result in short-term agreements that do not provide for long-term supply or allocation commitments. we are dependent on these foundries to supply the substantial majority of our wafers. we rely on tsmc, umc and our other foundries to produce wafers with competitive performance attributes. therefore, the foundries, particularly tsmc which manufactures our newest products, must be able to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies and increased wafer sizes, produce wafers at acceptable yields and deliver them in a timely manner. furthermore, we cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our wafers will offer us competitive pricing terms or other commercial terms important to our business. we cannot guarantee that our foundries will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies or difficulties due to limitations of new and existing process technologies. for example, we may experience supply shortages due to the difficulties foundries may encounter if they must rapidly increase their production capacities from low utilization levels to high utilization levels because of an unexpected increase in demand. furthermore, we cannot guarantee that the foundries will be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products or that they will continue to manufacture a given product for the full life of the product. we could also experience supply shortages due to very strong demand for our products, or a surge in demand for semiconductors in general, which may lead to tightening of foundry capacity across the industry. further, public health crises such as an outbreak of contagious diseases like covid-19 may affect the operations of our foundries. in addition, weak economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of the foundries and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us. the insolvency of a foundry or any significant manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity would disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to regulatory and operational risks associated with conducting business operations outside of the u.s. which could adversely affect our business. in addition to international sales and support operations and development activities, we purchase our wafers from foreign foundries, have our commercial products assembled, packaged and tested by subcontractors located outside the u.s. and utilize third party warehouse operators to store and manage inventory levels for certain of our products. all of these activities are subject to the uncertainties associated with international business operations, including global laws and regulations, trade barriers, economic sanctions, tax regulations, import and export regulations, duties and tariffs and other trade restrictions, changes in trade policies, anti-corruption laws, foreign governmental regulations, potential vulnerability of and reduced protection for ip, longer receivable collection periods, disruptions or delays in production or shipments and the impact from a global pandemic, such as covid-19 and responsive government measures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. 18 table of contents in 2018, u.s. and china began to impose partial tariffs on each other's products, leading to concerns of an escalating trade war, which, if it were to fully materialize, could result in general economic downturn or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business. for example, zte corporation (zte) has been subject to trade restrictions under two denial orders issued by the bureau of industry and security (bis) of the u.s. department of commerce in recent years and although zte was granted temporary relief from these denial orders and is not currently subject to restrictions, it may become subject to additional denial orders in the future. also, in may 2019, bis added huawei technologies co., ltd. (huawei) and several affiliates to the entity list, which imposes restrictions on the supply of certain u.s. and non-u.s. items and product support to listed huawei entities. as a result, we, along with others in the semi-conductor industry, are unable to sell certain products to huawei without a license grant, and our ability to do business with huawei has been adversely impacted. further geopolitical and regulatory changes may result in shifting regulatory barriers, tax regulations and other trade restrictions that could further negatively impact our business, financial condition and/or operating results. in april 2020, for example, bis announced further export control regulations effective on june 29, 2020, specifically the elimination of the license exception civ (civil end-users), which had permitted certain national security-controlled items to be exported to certain destinations, such as china, without a license and the expansion of controls over items for military end-uses in china, russia and venezuela. bis also proposed modifications to the license exception apr (additional permissible reexports), which, if enacted, will impose a licensing requirement on items to be reexported to certain destinations. furthermore, bis reportedly is considering other regulatory changes, such as modifications to the de minimis and foreign direct product rules set forth in the export administration regulations, that could impact our business. we are dependent upon our ability to obtain export licenses, or exceptions to export license requirements, from us and other foreign regulatory agencies. there is no assurance that we will be issued these licenses or be granted exceptions, and failure to obtain such licenses or exceptions could limit our ability to sell our products into certain countries and negatively impact our business, financial condition and/or operating results. additional factors that could adversely affect us due to our international operations include volatility in oil prices and increased costs, or limited supply of other natural resources. moreover, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected in the event of political conflicts, economic crises or changes in international relations affecting countries where our main wafer providers, warehouses, end customers, and contract manufacturers who provide assembly and test services worldwide, are located. for example, the united kingdom's recent exit from the european union, commonly referred to as "brexit," has led to significant instability and uncertainty in such regions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. earthquakes, other natural disasters or public health crises could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes or other natural disasters such as typhoons, tsunamis, volcano eruptions, fires or floods, public health crises such as an outbreak of contagious diseases like covid-19, as well as disruptions in access to adequate supplies of electricity, natural gas or water. the independent foundries, upon which we rely to manufacture our products, as well as our california and singapore facilities, are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes, wildfires or other natural disasters. tsmc's and umc's foundries in taiwan and our assembly and test partners in other regions as well as many of our operations in california are located in areas that have been seismically active in the past and some of these areas have also been affected by other natural disasters such as typhoons. disruption of operations at these foundries and our facilities could cause delays in manufacturing and shipments of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. any catastrophic event in these locations would disrupt our operations, and our insurance may not cover losses resulting from such disruptions of our operations, thereby materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. furthermore, natural disasters can also indirectly impact us. for example, our customers' supply of other complimentary products may be disrupted by a natural disaster and may cause them to delay orders of our products. more vertically-integrated competitors may be less exposed to some or all of these and other risks. the semiconductor industry is characterized by cyclical market patterns and a significant industry downturn could adversely affect our operating results. the semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and our financial performance has been affected by downturns in the industry. down cycles are generally characterized by price erosion and weaker demand for our products. weaker demand for our products resulting from economic conditions in the end markets we serve and reduced capital spending by our customers can result, and in the past has resulted, in excess and obsolete inventories and corresponding inventory write-downs. we attempt to identify changes in market conditions as soon as possible; however, the dynamics of the market in which we operate make prediction of and timely reaction to such events difficult. due to these and other factors, our past results are not reliable predictors of our future results. 19 table of contents the nature of our business makes our revenues difficult to predict which could have an adverse impact on our business. in addition to the challenging market conditions we may face, we have limited visibility into the demand for our products, particularly new products, because demand for our products depends upon our products being designed into our end customers' products and those products achieving market acceptance. due to the complexity of our customers' designs, the design to volume production process for our customers requires a substantial amount of time, frequently longer than a year. in addition, other factors may affect our end customers' demand for our products, including, but not limited to, end customer program delays and the ability of end customers to secure other complementary products. we also are dependent upon "turns," orders received and turned for shipment in the same quarter. these factors make it difficult for us to forecast future sales and project quarterly revenues. the difficulty in forecasting future sales impairs our ability to project our inventory requirements, which could result, and in the past has resulted, in inventory write-downs or failure to meet customer product demands in a timely manner. in addition, difficulty in forecasting revenues compromises our ability to provide forward-looking revenue and earnings guidance. if we are not able to compete successfully in our industry, our financial results and future prospects will be adversely affected. our products now compete in several areas of the semiconductor industry, an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continual price erosion. we expect continued competition from our primary pld competitors such as intel corporation (intel), lattice semiconductor corporation (lattice) and microsemi corporation (microsemi, acquired by microchip), and from assp vendors such as broadcom corporation (broadcom), marvell technology group, ltd. (marvell) and texas instruments incorporated (texas instruments), as well as from companies such as nvidia with whom we historically have not competed. in addition, we expect continued competition from the asic market, which has been ongoing since the inception of fpgas. we believe that important competitive factors in the logic ic industry include: product pricing; time-to-market; product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density; field upgradeability; adaptability of products to specific applications; ease of use and functionality of software design tools; availability and functionality of predefined ip logic; completeness of applicable software solutions; adherence to industry-standard programming environments; inventory and supply chain management; access to leading-edge process technology and assembly capacity; ability to provide timely customer service and support; and access to advanced packaging technology. our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high-volume, low-cost and low-power applications as well as high-performance, high-density applications. however, we may not be successful in executing this strategy. in addition, we anticipate continued pressure from our customers to reduce prices, which may outpace our ability to lower the cost for established products. other competitors include manufacturers of: high-density programmable logic products characterized by fpga-type architectures; high-volume and low-cost fpgas as programmable replacements for asics and assps; asics and assps with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; high-speed, low-density complex programmable logic devices; high-performance digital signal processing devices; products with embedded processors; products with embedded multi-gigabit transceivers; discrete general-purpose gpus targeting data center and automotive applications; and other new or emerging programmable logic products. 20 table of contents several companies have introduced products that compete with ours or have announced their intention to sell pld products. to the extent that our efforts to compete are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the benefits of programmable logic have attracted a number of competitors to this segment. we recognize that different applications require different programmable technologies, and we are developing architectures, processes and products to meet these varying customer needs. recognizing the increasing importance of standard software solutions, we have developed common software design tools that support the full range of our ic products. we believe that automation and ease of design are significant competitive factors in this segment. we could also face competition from our licensees. in the past we have granted limited rights to other companies with respect to certain aspects of our older technology, and we may do so in the future. granting such rights may enable these companies to manufacture and market products that may be competitive with some of our older products. increased costs of wafers and materials, or shortages in wafers and materials, could adversely impact our gross margins and lead to reduced revenues. if greater demand for wafers is not offset by an increase in foundry capacity, market demand for wafers or production and assembly materials increases, or if a supplier of our wafers or other materials ceases or suspends operations, for example due to shutdown measures implemented in response to the covid-19 outbreak, our supply of wafers and other materials could become limited. such shortages raise the likelihood of potential wafer price increases, wafer shortages or shortages in materials at production and test facilities, resulting in potential inability to address customer product demands in a timely manner. for example, in 2011, when certain suppliers located in japan were forced to temporarily halt production as the result of a natural disaster, this resulted in a tightening of supply for those materials. such shortages of wafers and materials as well as increases in wafer or materials prices could adversely affect our gross margins and would adversely affect our ability to meet customer demands and lead to reduced revenue. we depend on distributors, primarily avnet, to generate a significant portion of our sales and complete order fulfillment. avnet's revenue accounted for 42% of our worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2020 , and, as of march 28, 2020 , avnet accounted for 31% of our total net accounts receivable. any adverse change to our relationship with avnet or our other distributors could have a material impact on our business. furthermore, if a key distributor materially defaulted on a contract or otherwise failed to perform, our business and financial results would suffer. in addition, we are subject to concentrations of credit risk in our trade accounts receivable, which includes accounts of our distributors. a significant reduction of effort by a distributor to sell our products or a material change in our relationship with one or more distributors may reduce our access to certain end customers and adversely affect our ability to sell our products. in addition, the financial health of our distributors and our continuing relationships with them are important to our success. unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health of some of these distributors, particularly our smaller distributors. this could increase our credit risk exposure relating to the insolvency of certain distributors, the inability of distributors to obtain credit to finance the purchase of our products, or delayed payment for such purchases. our business could be harmed if the financial health of these distributors impaired their performance and we were unable to secure alternate distributors. we are dependent on independent subcontractors for most of our assembly and test services, and unavailability or disruption of these services could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. we are dependent on subcontractors to provide semiconductor assembly, substrate, test and shipment services. any (i) prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, (ii) disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, (iii) delays in stabilizing manufacturing processes and ramping up volume for new products, (iv) transitions to new service providers, or (v) other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands. in addition, unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of these subcontractors and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us. these factors would result in reduced net revenues and could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. 21 table of contents a number of factors, including our inventory strategy, can impact our gross margins. a number of factors can cause our gross margins to fluctuate, including yield, wafer pricing, product mix, market acceptance of our new products, competitive pricing dynamics, licensing costs, geographic and/or market segment pricing strategies. in addition, forecasting our gross margins is difficult because a significant portion of our business is based on turns within the same quarter. while our overall inventory levels fluctuate over time, the inventory of newer product lines may be higher than other products due to a planned increase in safety stock in anticipation of future revenue growth. in the event demand does not materialize, we may be subject to incremental obsolescence costs. in addition, future product cost reductions could have impact on our inventory valuation as well as our operating results. reductions in the average selling prices of our products could have a negative impact on our gross margins. the average selling prices of our products generally decline as the products mature. we seek to offset the decrease in selling prices through yield improvement, manufacturing cost reductions and increased unit sales. we also continue to develop higher value products or product features that increase the average selling prices of our products, or slow the decline of such prices. however, there is no guarantee that our ongoing efforts will be successful or that they will keep pace with the decline in selling prices of our products, which could ultimately lead to a decline in our revenues and gross margins. general negative economic conditions and any related deterioration in the global business environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. if weak economic conditions happen, there may be a number of negative effects on our business, including customers or potential customers reducing or delaying orders, the insolvency of key suppliers, potentially causing production delays, the inability of customers to obtain credit, and the insolvency of one or more customers. any of these effects could impact our ability to effectively manage inventory levels and collect receivables and ultimately decrease our net revenues and profitability. because we have international business and operations, we are vulnerable to the economic conditions of the countries in which we operate and currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. in addition to our u.s. operations, we also have significant international operations, including foreign sales offices to support our international customers and distributors, our regional headquarters in ireland and singapore and an r&amp;d site in india. sales and operations outside of the u.s. subject us to the risks associated with conducting business in foreign economic and regulatory environments. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in countries in which we do significant business or by changes in foreign currency exchange rates affecting those countries. we derive more than half of our revenues from international sales, primarily in the asia pacific region, europe and japan where economic weaknesses have adversely affected our revenues in the past. sales to all direct oems and distributors are denominated in u.s. dollars. while the recent movements of the euro and yen exchange rates against the u.s. dollar did not have a material impact on our business, increased volatility could impact our european and japanese customers. currency instability and volatility and disruptions in the credit and capital markets may increase credit risks for some of our customers and may impair our customers' ability to repay existing obligations. for example, the united kingdom's "brexit" transition has created economic uncertainty and currency volatility in the european union. increased currency volatility could also positively or negatively impact our foreign-currency-denominated costs, assets and liabilities. in addition, any devaluation of the u.s. dollar relative to other foreign currencies may increase the operating expenses of our foreign subsidiaries adversely affecting our results of operations. furthermore, because we are increasingly dependent on the global economy, instability in worldwide economic environments occasioned, for example, directly or indirectly by political instability (such as due to brexit), terrorist activity, u.s. or other military actions, changes to u.s. domestic and foreign policy and international sanctions or other diplomatic actions (potentially including sanctions adopted or under consideration by the u.s. or european union with respect to russia or russian individuals or businesses), could adversely impact economic activity and lead to a contraction of capital spending by our customers generally or in specific regions. any or all of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. 22 table of contents we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and changes in credit risk which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations as it relates to the market value of our investment portfolio and interest rate swap contracts. our cash, short-term and long-term investments represent significant assets that may be subject to fluctuating or even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements, changes in credit risk and financial market conditions. global credit market disruptions and economic slowdown and uncertainty have in the past negatively impacted the values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities. the global credit and capital markets may again experience significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system, uncertainty related to global economic conditions and concerns regarding sovereign financial stability. therefore, there is a risk that we may incur other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments should credit market conditions deteriorate or the underlying assets fail to perform as anticipated. our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair values of our debt securities was judged to be other than temporary. furthermore, we may suffer losses in principal on our investments, including our interest rate swap contracts, if we are forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or financial market conditions. our failure to protect and defend our ip could impair our ability to compete effectively. we rely upon patent, copyright, trade secret, mask work and trademark laws to protect our ip. we cannot provide assurance that such ip rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, violated, circumvented or challenged. from time to time, third parties, including our competitors, have asserted against us patent, copyright or other ip rights to technologies that are important to us. third parties may attempt to misappropriate our ip through electronic or other means or assert infringement claims against us or parties we have agreed to indemnify. such assertions by third parties may result in costly litigation, indemnity claims or other legal actions, and we may not prevail in such matters or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. this could result in the loss of our ability to import and sell our products or require us to pay costly royalties to third parties in connection with sales of our products. any infringement claim, indemnification claim, or impairment or loss of use of our ip could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our ability to design and introduce new products in a timely manner is dependent upon third-party ip. in the design and development of new products and product enhancements, we rely on third-party intellectual property such as software development tools and hardware testing tools. furthermore, certain product features may rely on intellectual property acquired from third parties, including hardware and software tools and products. the design requirements necessary to meet future consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from semiconductor products may exceed the capabilities of the third-party intellectual property or development tools that are available to us. in addition, hardware and software tools and products procured from third parties may contain design or manufacturing defects, including flaws that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our products. if the third-party intellectual property that we use becomes unavailable or fails to produce designs that meet consumer demands, our business could be adversely affected. any failure of our information technology systems to function properly could result in business disruption. we rely in part on various information technology (it) systems to manage our operations, including, but not limited to, financial reporting, and we regularly evaluate these systems and make changes to improve them as necessary. consequently, we periodically implement new, or upgrade or enhance existing, operational and it systems, procedures and controls. any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to record and report financial, management, or operational information on a timely and accurate basis. in addition, hardware and software tools and products procured from third parties included in our it systems could contain design or manufacturing defects, including flaws that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our it systems. these systems are also subject to power and telecommunication outages or other general system failures. failure of our it systems or difficulties in managing them could result in business disruption. 23 table of contents cyber-attacks and data breaches could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. security breaches, including cyber-attacks, phishing attacks or attempts to misappropriate or compromise confidential or proprietary information or sabotage enterprise it systems, are becoming increasingly frequent and more sophisticated. we depend on the uninterrupted operation of our it systems to manage our operations, store and retrieve business and financial data and facilitate internal communications and communications with customers, subcontractors, suppliers and distribution partners. we experience security incidents of varying degrees on an ongoing basis. we take steps to detect and investigate any security incidents and prevent their recurrence, but, in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or sabotage networks and systems change frequently, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate protections. these security incidents may involve unauthorized access, misuse or disclosure of intellectual property or confidential or proprietary information regarding our business or that of our customers or business partners. we also may be subject to unauthorized access to our it systems through a security breach or cyber-attack. in the past there have been attempts by third parties to penetrate and/or infect our network and systems with malicious software in an effort to gain access to our network and systems. recently, several large organizations have been infected by ransomware, through which an attacker gains access to the organization's computer files, renders them temporarily inaccessible and threatens to permanently delete them if a cash ransom is not paid by a specified deadline. third parties may continue to attempt to fraudulently induce employees, users, or customers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our network and systems. the it systems of our remote internet-connected third party server providers (sometimes called the "cloud"), customers, suppliers, and distribution partners and the links between our it systems and our customers are subject to the same risks as those of our it systems. the costs to us to prevent, detect or alleviate cyber- or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful. in the event of a security breach, our business and reputation could be harmed and we could be subject to legal and regulatory claims which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. acquisitions and strategic investments present risks, and we may not realize the goals that were contemplated at the time of a transaction. we have acquired technology companies whose products complement our products. we also have made a number of strategic investments in other technology companies. we may make similar acquisitions and strategic investments in the future, which present risks, including: our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management's attention may be diverted by investment, acquisition, transition or integration activities; an acquisition or strategic investment may not further our business strategy as we expected, and we may not integrate an acquired company or technology as successfully as we expected; our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by claims or liabilities that we assume from an acquired company or technology or that are otherwise related to an acquisition; we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines; we may have higher than anticipated costs in continuing support and development of acquired products, and in general and administrative functions that support such products; our strategic investments may not perform as expected, and we may be required to recognize a loss on any or all of our strategic investments; and we may experience unexpected changes in how we are required to account for our acquisitions and strategic investments pursuant to u.s. generally accepted accounting principles (gaap). the occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions or strategic investments. if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls, our stock price could be adversely affected. we are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (the sarbanes-oxley act). our controls necessary for continued compliance with the sarbanes-oxley act may not operate effectively at all times and may result in a material weakness disclosure. the identification of material weaknesses in internal control, if any, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements and could cause investors to lose confidence and our stock price to drop. 24 table of contents we compete with others to attract and retain key personnel, and any loss of, or inability to attract, such personnel would harm us. we depend on the efforts and abilities of certain key members of management and other technical personnel. our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to retain, develop and transition such personnel and attract and retain other highly qualified personnel, particularly product engineers. competition for such personnel is intense and we may not be successful in hiring or retaining new or existing qualified personnel. changes to the u.s. immigration laws may also impact the availability of qualified personnel. from time to time we have effected restructurings that eliminate a number of positions. for example, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, we announced cost-saving measures designed to drive structural operating efficiencies across the company by reducing our global workforce by approximately 5% through a targeted global workforce reduction in force. even if such personnel are not directly affected by the restructuring effort, such terminations can have a negative impact on morale and our ability to attract and hire new qualified personnel in the future. if we are unable to retain or develop existing qualified personnel or are unable to hire new qualified personnel, as needed, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. further, changes to our qualified personnel, including key members of management, may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully assimilate key new hires, or to successfully retain, develop and transition promoted employees, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. unfavorable results of legal proceedings could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. from time to time we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business. the amount of damages alleged in certain legal claims may be significant. certain other claims involving the company are not yet resolved, including those that are discussed under "note 16. litigation settlement and contingencies" to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. "financial statements and supplementary data" of this form 10-k, and additional claims may arise in the future. results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. regardless of its merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention and we may enter into material settlements to avoid these risks. entering into settlements may result in payment of significant amounts which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operation results. should we fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against us, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that would materially and adversely affect a portion of our business and might materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. our products could have defects which could result in reduced revenues and claims against us. we develop complex and evolving products that include both hardware and software. despite our testing efforts and those of our subcontractors, defects may be discovered in existing or new products. such defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair or replacement costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with customers. subject to certain terms and conditions, we have agreed to compensate certain customers for limited specified costs they actually incur in the event our hardware products experience epidemic failure. as a result, epidemic failure and other performance problems could result in claims against us or the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and would likely harm our business. our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. in addition, we could be subject to product liability claims. a product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly to defend. product liability risks are particularly significant with respect to aerospace, automotive and medical applications because of the risk of serious harm to users of these products. any product liability claim, whether or not determined in our favor, could result in significant expense, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and harm our business. 25 table of contents in preparing our financial statements, we make good faith estimates and judgments that may change or turn out to be erroneous. in preparing our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s., we must make estimates and judgments in applying our critical accounting policies. those estimates and judgments have a significant impact on the results we report in our consolidated financial statements. the most difficult estimates and subjective judgments that we make concern valuation of marketable and non-marketable securities, revenue recognition, inventories, long-lived assets including acquisition-related intangibles, goodwill, taxes and stock-based compensation. we base our estimates on historical experience, input from outside experts and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. we also have other key accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult, but which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial reporting. actual results may differ materially from these estimates. if these estimates or their related assumptions change, our operating results for the periods in which we revise our estimates or assumptions could be adversely and materially affected. our failure to comply with the requirements of the export administration regulations (ear) and the international traffic and arms regulations (itar) could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our fpgas and related technologies are subject to ear, which are administered by the u.s. department of commerce. in addition, we may, from time to time, receive technical data from third parties that is subject to the itar, which are administered by the u.s. department of state. ear and itar govern the export and re-export of these fpgas, the transfer of related technologies, whether in the u.s. or abroad, and the provision of services. we are required to maintain an internal compliance program and security infrastructure to meet ear and itar requirements. an inability to obtain the required export licenses, or to predict when they will be granted, increases the difficulties of forecasting shipments. in addition, security or compliance program failures that could result in penalties or a loss of export privileges, as well as stringent licensing restrictions that may make our products less attractive to overseas customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. our inability to effectively control the sale of our products on the gray market could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. we market and sell our products directly to oems and through authorized third-party distributors which helps to ensure that products delivered to our customers are authentic and properly handled. from time to time, customers may purchase products bearing our name from the unauthorized "gray market." these parts may be counterfeit, salvaged or re-marked parts, or parts that have been altered, mishandled, or damaged. gray market products result in shadow inventory that is not visible to us, thus making it difficult to forecast supply or demand. also, when gray market products enter the market, we and our authorized distributors may compete with brokers of these discounted products, which can adversely affect demand for our products and negatively impact our margins. in addition, our reputation with customers may be negatively impacted when gray market products bearing our name fail or are found to be substandard. the conflict minerals provisions of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act could result in additional costs and liabilities. in accordance with the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, the sec established disclosure and reporting requirements for companies whose products incorporate "conflict" minerals mined from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries, regardless of whether such products are manufactured by those companies or by third parties. these requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of our semiconductor products. the costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements include those for due diligence in regard to the sources of any conflict minerals used in our products, remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. we may face reputational challenges if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all minerals used in our products through the due diligence process we implement. moreover, some of our customers may require that all of the components of our products are certified as conflict-free, and we may be unable to verify the origin of the raw materials used in our products to the extent necessary to make this certification. 26 table of contents exposure to greater-than-anticipated income tax liabilities, changes in tax rules and regulations, changes in interpretation of tax rules and regulations, or unfavorable assessments from tax audits could affect our effective tax rates, financial condition and results of operations. we are a u.s.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple u.s. and foreign tax jurisdictions. our income tax obligations could be affected by many factors, including but not limited to changes to our corporate operating structure, intercompany arrangements and tax planning strategies. our income tax expense is computed based on tax rates at the time of the respective financial period. our future effective tax rates, financial condition and results from operations could be unfavorably affected by changes in the tax rates in jurisdictions where our income is earned, by changes in the tax rules and regulations or the interpretation of tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets. the tax cuts and jobs act (tcja) enacted in december 2017 had a significant impact on our tax obligations. amendments or technical corrections to the tcja could also meaningfully affect our tax obligations and our effective tax rate in the period enacted. a significant portion of our earnings are earned by our subsidiaries outside the u.s. changes to the taxation of certain foreign earnings as provided in the tcja, along with the state tax impact of these changes, may have an adverse effect on our effective tax rate. furthermore, changes to the taxation of undistributed foreign earnings could change our future intentions regarding reinvestment of such earnings. the foregoing items could have a material effect on our business, cash flow, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, we are subject to examinations of our income tax returns by domestic and foreign tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that may result from the current examinations. there can be no assurance that the final determination of any of these examinations will not have an adverse effect on our effective tax rates, financial condition and results of operations. considerable amounts of shares of our common stock are available for issuance under our equity incentive plans, and significant issuances in the future may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. as of march 28, 2020 , we had 2.00 billion authorized shares of common stock, of which 243.8 million shares were outstanding. in addition, 34.5 million shares of common stock were reserved for issuance pursuant to our equity incentive plans and amended and restated 1990 employee qualified stock purchase plan (espp). the availability of substantial amounts of our common stock resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity incentive plans, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. we have indebtedness that could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. the aggregate amount of our consolidated indebtedness as of march 28, 2020 was $1.25 billion (principal amount), which consists of $500.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 3.000% notes due 2021 (2021 notes) and $750.0 million principal amount of our 2.950% senior notes due 2024 (2024 notes). we also may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our indebtedness may: make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including making scheduled principal and interest payments on the notes and our other indebtedness; limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; require us to use a portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments; limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. 27 table of contents the agreements governing our debt obligations contain covenants that may adversely affect our ability to operate our business. the indentures governing the 2021 notes and 2024 notes contain, and the agreements governing any future debt obligations may contain, various covenants limiting our and our subsidiaries' ability to, among other things: create certain liens on principal property or the capital stock of certain subsidiaries; enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions with respect to principal property; and consolidate or merge with, or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all our assets, taken as a whole, to another person. a failure to comply with these covenants or other provisions in these agreements could result in events of default under the agreements, which could permit acceleration of the related debt obligations, as well as other debt obligations. any required repayment as a result of such acceleration could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 44 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate risk relates to certain types of investments, which consists of fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $1.48 billion as of march 28, 2020 . the fixed income investments include mortgage-backed securities, commercial mortgage-backed securities, financial institution securities, non-financial institution securities, u.s. and foreign government and agency securities and asset-backed securities. our primary aim with our investment portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal and meeting liquidity needs. in accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with 44 table of contents high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer based upon the issuer's credit rating. these securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. a hypothetical 100 basis-point (one percentage point) increase or decrease in interest rates compared to rates at march 28, 2020 and march 30, 2019 would have affected the fair value of our investment portfolio by approximately $8.0 million and $31.0 million , respectively. credit market risk the global credit markets may experience adverse conditions that negatively impact the values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities. the global credit and capital markets may experience significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system, uncertainty related to global economic conditions and concerns regarding sovereign financial stability and uncertainty over the covid-19 pandemic. therefore, there is a risk that we may incur other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments should credit market conditions deteriorate. see "note 4. financial instruments" to our consolidated financial statements, included inrisk factors 11 risk factors. often, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words, such as may, will, could, should, expect, believe, anticipate, estimate, continue, plan, intend, project and other similar terminology, or the negative of such terms. we disclaim any responsibility to update or revise any forward-looking statement provided in this annual report or in any of our other communications for any reason. item 1. business xilinx, inc. (xilinx, the company or we) designs, develops and markets programmable platforms. these programmable platforms have several components: integrated circuits (ics) in the form of programmable logic devices (plds); software design tools to program the plds; targeted reference designs; printed circuit boards; and intellectual property (ip) cores. in addition to its programmable platforms, xilinx provides design services, customer training, field engineering and technical support. our plds include field programmable gate arrays (fpgas) and complex programmable logic devices (cplds) that our customers program to perform desired logic functions. our products are designed to provide high integration and quick time-to-market for electronic equipment manufacturers in end markets such as wired and wireless communications, industrial, scientific and medical, aerospace and defense, audio, video and broadcast, consumer, automotive and data processing. we sell our products globally through independent domestic and foreign distributors and through direct sales to original equipment manufacturers (oems) by a network of independent sales representative firms and by a direct sales management organization. xilinx was founded and incorporated in california in february 1984. in april 1990, the company reincorporated in delaware. our corporate facilities and executive offices are located at 2100 logic drive, san jose, california 95124, and our website address is www.xilinx.com. industry overview there are three principal types of ics used in most digital electronic systems: processors, which generally are utilized for control and computing tasks; memory devices, which are used for storing program instructions and data; and logic devices, which generally are used to manage the interchange and manipulation of digital signals within a system. xilinx designs and develops plds, a type of logic device. alternatives to plds include application specific integrated circuits (asics) and application specific standard products (assps). plds, asics and assps compete with each other since they may be utilized in many of the same types of applications within electronic systems. however, variations in unit pricing, development cost, product performance, reliability, power consumption, capacity, functionality, ease of use and time-to-market determine the degree to which the devices compete for specific applications. key pld competitive advantages versus competing asics and assps include: faster time-to-market and increased design flexibility. both of these advantages are enabled by xilinx desktop software which allows users to implement and revise their designs quickly. in contrast, asics and assps require significant development time and offer limited, if any, flexibility to make design changes. plds are standard components. this means that the same device can be sold to many different users for myriad of applications. in sharp contrast, asics and assps are customized for an individual user or a specific application. 3 table of contents plds are generally disadvantaged in terms of relative device size. asics and assps tend to be smaller than plds, resulting in a lower unit cost. however, there is a high fixed cost associated with asic and assp development that is not applicable to pld customers. this fixed cost of development is expected to significantly increase on next generation technology nodes. from a total cost of development perspective, asics and assps have generally been more cost effective when used in high-volume production; and, plds when used in low- to mid-volume production. however, we expect plds to be able to address higher volume applications and gain market share from asic and assp suppliers as the fixed cost of asic and assp development increases on next generation technology nodes, eroding their respective cost advantages. an overview of typical pld end market applications for our products is shown in the following table: end markets sub-segments applications communications wireless 3g/4g base stations wireless backhaul wireline metro area networks optical networks enterprise switches mid-end and high-end routers industrial and other industrial, scientific and medical factory automation medical imaging test and measurement equipment aerospace and defense satellite surveillance radar and sonar systems secure communications consumer and automotive consumer digital televisions digital video recorders settop boxes automotive infotainment systems driver information systems vision-based driver assistance systems audio, video and broadcast cable head-end systems post production equipment broadcast cameras data processing storage and servers security and encryption computer peripherals office automation copiers printers strategy and competition our strategy for expansion is the displacement of asics and assps in the development of next generation electronic systems. the costs and risks associated with application-specific devices can only be justified for a short list of ultra-high volume commodity products. programmable platforms, alternatively, are becoming critical for our customers to meet increasingly stringent product requirements cost, power, performance, and density in a business environment characterized by increased complexity, shrinking market windows, rapidly changing market demands, capped engineering budgets, escalating asic and assp non-recurring engineering costs, and increased risk. with every new generation of fpgas, our strategy is to increase the performance, densities and system-level functionality, while driving down cost and power consumption, at each manufacturing process node. secondly, our strategy is to provide simpler, smarter programmable platforms and design methodologies that free up engineers to focus on end product innovation and differentiation. 4 table of contents our plds compete in the logic ic industry, an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion. we expect increased competition from our primary pld competitors, altera corporation (altera), lattice semiconductor corporation (lattice) and actel corporation (actel), from the asic market, which has been ongoing since the inception of fpgas, from the assp market, and from new companies that may enter the traditional programmable logic market segment. other competitors include manufacturers of: high-density programmable logic products characterized by fpga-type architectures; high-volume and low-cost fpgas as programmable replacements for asics and assps; asics and assps with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; high-speed, low-density cplds; high-performance digital signal processing (dsp) devices; products with embedded processors; products with embedded multi-gigabit transceivers; and other new or emerging programmable logic products. we believe that important competitive factors in the logic ic industry include: product pricing; time-to-market; product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density; field upgradability; adaptability of products to specific applications; ease of use and functionality of software design tools; availability and functionality of predefined ip cores of logic; inventory management; access to leading-edge process technology and assembly capacity; and ability to provide timely customer service and support. silicon product overview a brief overview of the silicon product offerings, which comprise the majority of our revenues, follows in the table below. some of our more mature product families have been excluded from the table although they continue to generate revenues. we operate and track our results in one operating segment for financial reporting purposes. product families fpgas date introduced capacity process technology virtex -6 february 2009 75k to 760k logic cells 40-nanometer (nm) virtex-5 may 2006 20k to 330k logic cells 65-nm virtex-4 june 2004 12k to 200k logic cells 90-nm virtex-ii pro march 2002 3k to 99k logic cells 130-nm virtex-ii january 2001 1k to 104k logic cells 150-nm spartan -6 february 2009 4k to 150k logic cells 45-nm spartan-3a december 2006 2k to 54k logic cells 90-nm spartan-3e march 2005 2k to 33k logic cells 90-nm spartan-3 april 2003 2k to 75k logic cells 90-nm spartan-iie november 2001 2k to 16k logic cells 150-nm 5 table of contents cplds date introduced capacity process technology coolrunner -ii january 2002 32 to 512 macrocells 180-nm virtex fpgas the virtex-6 fpga family consists of 13 devices and is the sixth generation in the virtex series of fpgas. virtex-6 fpgas are fabricated on a high-performance, 40-nm process technology. there are three virtex-6 families, and each is optimized to deliver different feature mixes to address a variety of markets as follows: virtex-6 lxt fpgas optimized for applications that require high-performance logic, dsp and serial connectivity with low-power 6.6g serial transceivers. virtex-6 sxt fpgas optimized for applications that require ultra high-performance dsp and serial connectivity with low-power 6.6g serial transceivers. virtex-6 hxt fpgas optimized for communications applications that require the highest-speed serial connectivity with up to 11.2g serial transceivers. the virtex-5 fpga family consists of 26 devices in five product families: virtex-5 lx fpgas for logic-intensive designs, virtex-5 lxt fpgas for high-performance logic with serial connectivity, virtex-5 sxt fpgas for high-performance dsp with serial connectivity, virtex-5 fxt fpgas for embedded processing with serial connectivity and virtex-5 txt fpgas for high-bandwidth serial connectivity. prior generation virtex families include virtex-4, virtex-ii pro, virtex-ii, virtex-e and the original virtex family. spartan fpgas the sixth generation in the spartan fpga series, the spartan-6 fpga family, is fabricated on a low-power 45-nm process technology. the spartan-6 family is the pld industry first 45-nm high-volume fpga family, consisting of 11 devices in two product families: spartan-6 lx fpgas optimized for applications needing the lowest cost. spartan-6 lxt fpgas optimized for applications that require lx features plus 3.125g serial transceivers. spartan-3 fpgas are 90-nm fpgas and include the original spartan-3 family, the spartan-3e family and the spartan-3a family. prior generation spartan families include spartan-iie, spartan-ii, spartan xl and the original spartan family. cplds cplds operate on the lowest end of the programmable logic density spectrum. cplds are single-chip, nonvolatile solutions characterized by instant-on and universal interconnect. cplds combine the advantages of ultra low power consumption with the benefits of high performance and low cost. prior generations of cplds include the coolrunner and xc9500 product families. easypath fpgas easypath fpgas offer customers a fast, simple method of cost-reducing fpga designs. easypath fpgas use the same production masks and fabrication process as standard fpgas and are tested to a specific customer application to improve yield and lower costs. as a result, easypath fpgas provide customers with significant cost reduction when compared to the standard fpga devices without the conversion risk, conversion engineering effort or the additional time required to move to an asic. the latest generation of easypath fpgas, easypath-6 fpgas, provide lower total product cost of ownership for cost-reducing high performance fpgas. design platforms and services programmable platforms we offer three types of programmable platforms that support our customers designs and reduce their development efforts: the base platform is the delivery vehicle for all new silicon offerings used to develop and run customer-specific software applications and hardware designs. released at launch, the base platform is comprised of: fpga silicon; ise (integrated software environment) design suite design environment; integration support of optional third-party synthesis, simulation, and signal integrity tools; reference designs; development boards and ip cores. 6 table of contents the domain-specific platform targets one of the three primary xilinx fpga user profiles: the embedded processing developer; the dsp developer; or the logic/connectivity developer. it accomplishes this by augmenting the base platform with a targeted set of integrated technologies, including: higher-level design methodologies and tools; domain-specific ip including embedded, dsp and connectivity; domain-specific development hardware and reference designs; and operating systems and software. the market-specific platform enables software or hardware developers to quickly build and run their specific application or solution. built for specific markets such as automotive, consumer, aerospace and defense, communications, audio, video and broadcast, industrial, or scientific and medical, the market-specific platform integrates both the base and domain-specific platforms with higher targeted applications elements such as ip, reference designs and boards optimized for a particular market. design tools to accommodate the various design methodologies and design flows employed by the wide range of our customers user profiles such as system designers, algorithm designers, software coders and logic designers, we provide the appropriate design environment tailored to each user profile for design creation, design implementation and design verification. the xilinx ise design suite features a complete tool chain for the three domain-specific categories: embedded, dsp and logic/connectivity. to further enhance productivity and help customers better manage the complexity of their designs, the ise design suite enables designers to target area, performance, or power by simply selecting a design goal in the setup. the xilinx ise design suite also integrates with a wide range of third-party electronic design automation (eda) software point-tools offerings. intellectual property xilinx and various third parties offer hundreds of free and for-license ip components to accelerate our customers time to market, including a host of widely used ip such as ethernet, memory controllers, and pcie , as well as an abundance of domain-specific ip in the areas of embedded, dsp and connectivity, as well as market-specific ip. in addition, we have announced a partnership agreement with arm to define the next-generation arm amba axi-4 interconnect technology that is enhanced and optimized for fpga architectures to facilitate plug-and-play fpga design and take advantage of the large ecosystem of arm ip developers. development boards, kits and configuration products in addition to the broad selection of legacy development boards presently offered, we have introduced a new unified board strategy that enables the creation of a standardized and coordinated set of base boards available both from xilinx and our ecosystem partners, all utilizing the industry-standard extensions that enable customization for market specific applications. adopting this standard for all of our base boards enables the creation of a unified, scalable and extensible delivery mechanism for all xilinx programmable platforms. we also offer comprehensive development kits including hardware, design tools, ip and reference designs that are designed to streamline and accelerate the development of domain-specific and market-specific applications. finally, xilinx offers a range of configuration products including one-time programmable and in-system programmable storage devices to configure xilinx fpgas. these prom (programmable read-only memory) products support all of our fpga devices. third-party alliances xilinx and certain third parties have developed and continue to offer a robust ecosystem of ip, boards, tools, services, and support through the xilinx alliance program. xilinx also works with these third parties to make our programmable platforms available through third-party tools, ip, software, boards, and design services, and leveraged in customer designs. engineering services xilinx engineering services provide customers with engineering resources to augment their design team and to provide expert design-specific advice. xilinx tailors its engineering services to the needs of its customer, ranging from hands-on training to full design creation and implementation. see information under the caption results of operations net revenues in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for information about our revenues from our product families. 7 table of contents research and development our research and development (r d) activities are primarily directed towards the design of new ics, the development of new software design automation tools for hardware and embedded software, the design of logic ip cores, the adoption of advanced semiconductor manufacturing processes for ongoing cost reductions, performance and signal integrity improvements and the lowering of pld power consumption. as a result of our r d efforts, we have introduced a number of new products during the past several years including the virtex-6 and spartan-6 families. additionally, we have made enhancements to our ip core offerings and introduced new versions of our ise design suite. we extended our collaboration with our foundry suppliers in the development of 65-nm, 45-nm and 40-nm manufacturing technology and we were the first company in the pld industry to ship 45-nm high-volume fpga devices. our r d challenge is to continue to develop new products that create cost-effective solutions for customers. in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, our r d expenses were $369.5 million, $355.4 million and $358.1 million, respectively. we believe technical leadership and innovation are essential to our future success and we are committed to maintaining a significant level of r d investment. sales and distribution we sell our products to oems and to electronic components distributors who resell these products to oems or contract manufacturers. we use dedicated global sales and marketing organizations as well as independent sales representatives to generate sales. in general, we focus our direct demand creation efforts on a limited number of key accounts with independent sales representatives often addressing those customers in defined territories. distributors create demand within the balance of our customer base. distributors also provide vendor-managed inventory, value-added services and logistics for a wide range of our oem customers. whether xilinx, the independent sales representative, or the distributor identifies the sales opportunity, a local distributor will process and fulfill the majority of all customer orders. in such situations, distributors are the sellers of the products and as such they bear all legal and financial risks generally related to the sale of commercial goods, such as credit loss, inventory shrinkage and theft, as well as foreign currency fluctuations, but excluding indemnity and warranty liability. in accordance with our distribution agreements and industry practice, we have granted the distributors the contractual right to return certain amounts of unsold product on a periodic basis and also receive price adjustments for unsold product in the case of a subsequent change in list prices. revenue recognition on shipments to distributors worldwide is deferred until the products are sold to the distributors end customers. avnet, inc. (avnet) distributes the substantial majority of our products worldwide. no end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues in fiscal 2010, 2009 or 2008. as of april 3, 2010 and march 28, 2009, avnet accounted for 83% and 81% of the company total accounts receivable, respectively. resale of product through avnet accounted for 49%, 55% and 61% of the company worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. we also use other regional distributors throughout the world. we believe distributors provide a cost-effective means of reaching a broad range of customers while providing efficient logistics services. since plds are standard products, they do not present many of the inventory risks to distributors posed by asics, and they simplify the requirements for distributor technical support. from time to time, we may add or terminate distributors in specific geographies, or move customers to a direct support model as we deem appropriate given our strategies, the level of business and distributor performance and financial condition. for example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we terminated our relationship with one of our north american-based distributors. see note 2. summary of significant accounting policies and concentrations of risk to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, for information about concentrations of credit risk and note 17. segment information for information about our revenues from external customers and domestic and international operations . backlog as of april 3, 2010, our backlog from oem customers and backlog from end customers reported by our distributors scheduled for delivery within the next three months was $282.0 million, compared to $162.0 million as of march 28, 2009. orders from end customers to our distributors are subject to changes in delivery schedules or to cancellation without significant penalty. as a result, backlogs from both oem customers and end customers reported by our distributors as of any particular period may not be a reliable indicator of revenue for any future period. wafer fabrication as a fabless semiconductor company, we do not manufacture wafers used for our ic products or proms. rather, we purchase wafers from multiple foundries including united microelectronics corporation (umc), toshiba corporation (toshiba), seiko epson corporation (seiko), samsung electronics co., ltd. and he jian technology (suzhou) co., ltd. currently, umc manufactures the substantial majority of our wafers. in february 2010, the company entered into an agreement with taiwan semiconductor manufacturing company limited (tsmc) to be our foundry supplier at the 28-nm technology node. 8 table of contents precise terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by our periodic negotiations with the wafer foundries. our strategy is to focus our resources on market development and creating new ics and software design tools rather than on wafer fabrication. we continuously evaluate opportunities to enhance foundry relationships and/or obtain additional capacity from our main suppliers as well as other suppliers of leading-edge process technologies. sort, assembly and test wafers purchased are sorted by the foundry or independent sort subcontractors. sorted die are assembled by subcontractors. during the assembly process, the wafers are separated into individual die, which are then assembled into various package types. following assembly, the packaged units are generally tested by xilinx personnel at our singapore facility or by independent test subcontractors. we purchase most of our assembly and some of our testing services from siliconware precision industries ltd. in taiwan, amkor technology, inc. in korea and the philippines and stats chippac ltd. in singapore. quality certification xilinx has achieved quality management systems certification for iso 9001:2000 for our facilities in san jose, california; dublin, ireland; longmont, colorado; singapore and albuquerque, new mexico. in addition, xilinx achieved iso 14001, tl 9000 and ts 16949 environmental and quality certifications in the san jose, dublin and singapore locations, tl 9000 certifications in the longmont and albuquerque locations and ts 16949 certifications in the albuquerque and hyderabad, india locations. patents and licenses while our various proprietary intellectual property rights are important to our success, we believe our business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. as of april 3, 2010, we held more than 2,300 issued united states (u.s.) patents, which vary in duration, and over 650 pending u.s. patent applications relating to our proprietary technology. we maintain an active program of filing for additional patents in the areas of, but not limited to, circuits, software, ic architecture, system design, testing methodologies and other technologies relating to plds. we have licensed some parties to certain portions of our patent portfolio and obtained licenses to certain third-party patents as well. we have acquired various licenses from third parties to certain technologies that are implemented in ip cores or embedded in our plds, such as processors. those licenses support our continuing ability to make and sell these plds to our customers. we also sublicense certain third-party proprietary software and open-source software, such as compilers, for our design tools. continued use of those software components is important to the operation of the design tools upon which customers depend. we maintain the xilinx trade name as well as numerous trademarks and registered trademarks including xilinx, virtex, spartan, ise and associated logos. maintaining these rights, and the goodwill associated with these trademarks and logos, is important to our business. we also have license rights to use certain trademarks owned by consortiums and other trademark owners that are related to our products and business. we intend to protect our intellectual property vigorously. we believe that failure to enforce our intellectual property rights (including, for example, patents, copyrights and trademarks) or failure to protect our trade secrets effectively could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we incurred, and in the future we may continue to incur, litigation expenses to defend against claims of infringement and to enforce our intellectual property rights against third parties. however, any such litigation may or may not be successful. employees as of april 3, 2010, we had 2,948 employees compared to 3,145 as of the end of the prior fiscal year. none of our employees are represented by a labor union. we have not experienced any work stoppages and believe we maintain good employee relations. 9 table of contents executive officers of the registrant certain information regarding the executive officers of xilinx as of june 1, 2010 is set forth below: name age position moshe n. gavrielov 55 president and chief executive officer (ceo) scott r. hover-smoot 55 vice president, general counsel and secretary jon a. olson 56 senior vice president, finance and chief financial officer (cfo) victor peng 50 senior vice president, programmable platforms development raja g. petrakian 46 senior vice president, worldwide operations vincent f. ratford 58 senior vice president, worldwide marketing vincent l. tong 48 senior vice president, worldwide quality and new product introductions frank a. tornaghi 55 senior vice president, worldwide sales there are no family relationships among the executive officers of the company or the board of directors. moshe n. gavrielov joined the company in january 2008 as president and ceo and was appointed to the board of directors in february 2008. prior to joining the company, mr. gavrielov served at cadence design systems, inc., an electronic design automation company, as executive vice president and general manager of the verification division from april 2005 through november 2007. mr. gavrielov served as ceo of verisity ltd., an electronic design automation company, from march 1998 to april 2005 prior to its acquisition by cadence design systems, inc. prior to joining verisity, mr. gavrielov spent nearly 10 years at lsi corporation (formerly lsi logic corporation), a semiconductor manufacturer, in a variety of executive management positions, including executive vice president of the products group, senior vice president and general manager of international marketing and sales and senior vice president and general manager of lsi logic europe plc. prior to joining lsi corporation, mr. gavrielov held various engineering and engineering management positions at digital equipment corporation and national semiconductor corporation. scott r. hover-smoot joined the company in october 2007 as vice president, general counsel and secretary. from november 2001 to october 2007, mr. hover-smoot served as regional counsel and director of legal operations with taiwan semiconductor manufacturing company, ltd., an independent semiconductor foundry. he served as vice president and general counsel of california micro devices corporation, a provider of application-specific protection devices and display electronics devices from june 1994 to november 2001. prior to joining california micro devices corporation, mr. hover-smoot spent over 20 years working in law firms including berliner-cohen, flehr, hohbach, test, albritton herbert, and lyon lyon. jon a. olson joined the company in june 2005 as vice president, finance and cfo. mr. olson was promoted to his current position of senior vice president, finance and cfo in august 2006. prior to joining the company, mr. olson spent more than 25 years at intel corporation, a semiconductor chip maker, serving in a variety of positions, including vice president, finance and enterprise services, director of finance. victor peng joined the company in april 2008 as senior vice president, silicon engineering group and assumed his current position of senior vice president, programmable platforms development in november 2008. prior to joining the company, mr. peng served as corporate vice president, graphics products group at advanced micro devices (amd), a provider of processing solutions, from november 2005 to april 2008. before joining amd, mr. peng served as vice president of silicon engineering in the graphics products group business unit at ati technologies, a graphics processor unit provider, from april 2005 until its acquisition by amd. before joining ati technologies, mr. peng served as vice president of engineering at tzero technologies, a fabless semiconductor company, from september 2004 to april 2005. from november 2000 to september 2004, mr. peng served as vice president of engineering at mips technologies, a semiconductor design ip company. raja g. petrakian joined the company in october 1995 and has served in a number of key roles within operations, most recently as senior director of supply chain management and vice president of supply chain management. dr. petrakian was promoted to his current position of senior vice president, worldwide operations in march 2009. prior to joining xilinx, dr. petrakian spent more than three years at the ibm t.j. research center serving as a research staff member in the manufacturing research department. vincent f. ratford joined the company in january 2006 as sr. director of marketing and business development. mr. ratford was promoted to vice president and general manager in october 2007. he was promoted to senior vice president, solutions development group in april 2008 and assumed his current position of senior vice president, worldwide marketing in november 2008. prior to joining the company, he served as president and ceo of accelchip, inc. (accelchip), a provider of synthesis software tools for designing dsp systems, from july 2004 until its acquisition by xilinx in january 2006. prior to that, mr. ratford operated the consulting firm, deeptech consulting, from april 2002 to july 2004. mr. ratford worked at virage logic corporation, a provider of semiconductor ip, as vice president of marketing and business development from july 2000 to april 2002 and as vice president of sales and marketing from february 1998 to july 2000. before joining virage logic, mr. ratford served as chief operating officer of the microtec division of mentor graphics, a provider of hardware and software design solutions to semiconductor companies, from october 1995 to december 1997. before joining the microtec division, he was director of marketing for mentor graphics system design division from may 1993 to october 1995. vincent l. tong joined the company in may 1990 and has served in a number of key roles, most recently as vice president of product technology and as vice president, worldwide quality and reliability. in april 2008, he was promoted to his current position of senior vice president, worldwide quality and new product introductions. prior to joining the company, mr. tong served in a variety of engineering positions at monolithic memories, a producer of logic devices, and amd. mr. tong serves on the board of the global semiconductor alliance, a non-profit semiconductor organization. 10 table of contents frank a. tornaghi joined the company in february 2008 as vice president, worldwide sales and was promoted to his current position of senior vice president, worldwide sales in april 2008. prior to joining the company, mr. tornaghi spent 22 years at lsi corporation. mr. tornaghi acted as an independent consultant from april 2006 until he joined the company. he served as executive vice president, worldwide sales at lsi corporation from july 2001 to april 2006 and as vice president, north america sales, from may 1993 to july 2001. from 1984 until may 1993, mr. tornaghi held various management positions in sales at lsi corporation. additional information we make available, via a link through our investor relations website located at www.investor.xilinx.com , access to our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the u.s. securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (exchange act) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission (sec). all such filings on our investor relations website are available free of charge. printed copies of these documents are also available to stockholders without charge, upon written request directed to xilinx, inc., attn: investor relations, 2100 logic drive, san jose, ca 95124. further, a copy of this annual report on form 10-k is located at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., room 1580, washington, d.c. 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room can be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings at http://www.sec.gov . the content on any website referred to in this filing is not incorporated by reference into this filing unless expressly noted otherwise. additional information required by this item 1 is incorporated by reference to the section captioned net revenues net revenues by geography in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and to note 17. segment information to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. this annual report includes trademarks and service marks of xilinx and other companies that are unregistered and registered in the u. s. and other countries. item 1a. risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks to the company. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or that the company management currently deems immaterial also may impair its business operations. if any of the risks described below were to occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. our success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products and failure to do so would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. our success depends in large part on our ability to develop and introduce new products that address customer requirements and compete effectively on the basis of price, density, functionality, power consumption and performance. the success of new product introductions is dependent upon several factors, including: timely completion of new product designs; ability to generate new design opportunities or design wins; availability of specialized field application engineering resources supporting demand creation and customer adoption of new products; ability to utilize advanced manufacturing process technologies on circuit geometries of 45-nm and smaller; achieving acceptable yields; ability to obtain adequate production capacity from our wafer foundries and assembly and test subcontractors; ability to obtain advanced packaging; availability of supporting software design tools; utilization of predefined ip cores of logic; customer acceptance of advanced features in our new products; and market acceptance of our customers products. 11 table of contents our product development efforts may not be successful, our new products may not achieve industry acceptance and we may not achieve the necessary volume of production that would lead to further per unit cost reductions. revenues relating to our mature products are expected to decline in the future, which is normal for our product life cycles. as a result, we may be increasingly dependent on revenues derived from design wins for our newer products as well as anticipated cost reductions in the manufacture of our current products. we rely primarily on obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture of existing products and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and other price/performance factors that enable us to increase revenues while maintaining consistent margins. to the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner, or to the extent that our products do not achieve market acceptance at prices with higher margins, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we rely on independent foundries for the manufacture of all of our products and a manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could adversely affect our operations. nearly all of our wafers were manufactured either in taiwan, by united microelectronics corporation (umc), or in japan, by toshiba corporation (toshiba). in addition, the wafers for our older products are manufactured in japan by seiko epson corporation (seiko) and the wafers for some of our newer products are manufactured in south korea, by samsung electronics co., ltd. terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations between xilinx and these wafer foundries, which usually result in short-term agreements that do not provide for long-term supply or allocation commitments. we are dependent on these foundries, especially umc, which supplies the substantial majority of our wafers. we rely on umc to produce wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes. these attributes include an ability to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies and increased wafer sizes, produce wafers at acceptable yields and deliver them in a timely manner. we cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our wafers will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies or difficulties due to limitations of new and existing process technologies. furthermore, we cannot guarantee the foundries will be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products. in addition, unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of the foundries and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us. for example, in the first quarter of fiscal 2010, we experienced supply shortages due to the difficulties encountered by the foundries in rapidly increasing their production capacities from low utilization levels to high utilization levels because of an unexpected increase in demand. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we also experienced supply shortages due to very strong demand for our products and a surge in demand for semiconductors in general, which has led to tightening of foundry capacity across the industry. the insolvency of a foundry or any significant manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity would disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. we have established other sources of wafer supply for many of our products in an effort to secure a continued supply of wafers. however, establishing, maintaining and managing multiple foundry relationships require the investment of management resources as well as additional costs. if we do not manage these relationships effectively, it could adversely affect our results of operations. general economic conditions and the related deterioration in the global business environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. during the past two years, global consumer confidence eroded amidst concerns over declining asset values, inflation, volatility in energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, rising unemployment, and the stability and solvency of financial institutions, financial markets, businesses and sovereign nations, among other concerns. these concerns slowed global economic growth and resulted in recessions in numerous countries, including many of those in north america, europe and asia. these economic conditions had a negative impact on our results of operations during the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2009 and the first and second quarters of fiscal 2010 due to reduced customer demand. while there have been recent improvements in global economic conditions and our results of operations improved during the second half of fiscal 2010, there is no guarantee that these improvements will continue in the future. if unpredictable economic conditions persist or worsen, a number of negative effects on our business could result, including customers or potential customers reducing or delaying orders, the insolvency of key suppliers, which could result in production delays, the inability of customers to obtain credit, and the insolvency of one or more customers. any of these effects could impact our ability to effectively manage inventory levels and collect receivables and ultimately decrease our net revenues and profitability. the semiconductor industry is characterized by cyclical market patterns and a significant industry downturn could adversely affect our operating results. the semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and our financial performance has been affected by downturns in the industry, including the current downturn. down cycles are generally characterized by price erosion and weaker demand for our products. weaker demand for our products resulting from economic conditions in the end markets we serve and reduced capital spending by our customers can result, and in the past has resulted in excess and obsolete inventories and corresponding inventory write-downs. we attempt to identify changes in market conditions as soon as possible; however, the dynamics of the market in which we operate make prediction of and timely reaction to such events difficult. due to these and other factors, our past results are not reliable predictors of our future results. 12 table of contents the nature of our business makes our revenues difficult to predict which could have an adverse impact on our business. in addition to the challenging market conditions we may face, we have limited visibility into the demand for our products, particularly new products, because demand for our products depends upon our products being designed into our end customers products and those products achieving market acceptance. due to the complexity of our customers designs, the design to volume production process for our customers requires a substantial amount of time, frequently longer than a year. in addition, we are dependent upon turns, orders received and turned for shipment in the same quarter. these factors make it difficult for us to forecast future sales and project quarterly revenues. the difficulty in forecasting future sales impairs our ability to project our inventory requirements, which could result, and in the past has resulted, in inventory write-downs or failure to timely meet customer product demands. in addition, difficulty in forecasting revenues compromises our ability to provide forward-looking revenue and earnings guidance. if we are not able to successfully compete in our industry, our financial results and future prospects will be adversely affected. our plds compete in the logic ic industry, an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion. we expect increased competition from our primary pld competitors, altera, lattice and actel, from the asic market, which has been ongoing since the inception of fpgas, from the assp market, and from new companies that may enter the traditional programmable logic market segment. we believe that important competitive factors in the logic ic industry include: product pricing; time-to-market; product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density; field upgradeability; adaptability of products to specific applications; ease of use and functionality of software design tools; availability and functionality of predefined ip cores of logic; inventory and supply chain management; access to leading-edge process technology and assembly capacity; and ability to provide timely customer service and support. our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high-volume, low-cost and low-power applications as well as high-performance, high-density applications. in addition, we anticipate continued price reductions proportionate with our ability to lower the cost for established products. however, we may not be successful in achieving these strategies. other competitors include manufacturers of: high-density programmable logic products characterized by fpga-type architectures; high-volume and low-cost fpgas as programmable replacements for asics and assps; asics and assps with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; high-speed, low-density cplds; high-performance dsp devices; products with embedded processors; products with embedded multi-gigabit transceivers; and other new or emerging programmable logic products. several companies have introduced products that compete with ours or have announced their intention to sell pld products. to the extent that our efforts to compete are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the benefits of programmable logic have attracted a number of competitors to this segment. we recognize that different applications require different programmable technologies, and we are developing architectures, processes and products to meet these varying customer needs. recognizing the increasing importance of standard software solutions, we have developed common software design tools that support the full range of our ic products. we believe that automation and ease of design are significant competitive factors in this segment. 13 table of contents we could also face competition from our licensees. in the past we have granted limited rights to other companies with respect to certain of our older technology, and we may do so in the future. granting such rights may enable these companies to manufacture and market products that may be competitive with some of our older products. increased costs of wafers and materials, or shortages in wafers and materials, could adversely impact our gross margins and lead to reduced revenues. if greater demand for wafers is not offset by an increase in foundry capacity, or market demand for wafers or production and assembly materials increases, our supply of wafers and other materials could become limited. such shortages raise the likelihood of potential wafer price increases and wafer shortages or shortages in materials at production and test facilities and our resulting potential inability to address customer product demands in a timely manner. such increases in wafer prices or materials could adversely affect our gross margins and shortages of wafers and materials would adversely affect our ability to meet customer demands and lead to reduced revenue. we depend on distributors, primarily avnet, to generate a majority of our sales and complete order fulfillment. resale of product through avnet accounted for 49% of our worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2010, and as of april 3, 2010, avnet accounted for 83% of our total accounts receivable. in addition, we are subject to concentrations of credit risk in our trade accounts receivable, which includes accounts of our distributors. a significant reduction of effort by a distributor to sell our products or a material change in our relationship with one or more distributors may reduce our access to certain end customers and adversely affect our ability to sell our products. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we terminated our relationship with one of our north american-based distributors. as a result, we are increasingly dependent on our relationship with avnet. any adverse change to our relationship with avnet or our remaining distributors could have a material impact on our business. furthermore, if a key distributor materially defaults on a contract or otherwise fails to perform, our business and financial results would suffer. in addition, the financial health of our distributors and our continuing relationships with them are important to our success. unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health of some of these distributors, particularly our smaller distributors. this could result in the insolvency of certain distributors, the inability of distributors to obtain credit to finance the purchase of our products, or cause distributors to delay payment of their obligations to us and increase our credit risk exposure. our business could be harmed if the financial health of these distributors impairs their performance and we are unable to secure alternate distributors. we are dependent on independent subcontractors for most of our assembly and test services and unavailability or disruption of these services could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. we are also dependent on subcontractors to provide semiconductor assembly, substrate, test and shipment services. any prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, any disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands. in addition, unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of these subcontractors and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us. these factors would result in reduced net revenues and could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. a number of factors can impact our gross margins. a number of factors, including yield, wafer pricing, product mix, market acceptance of our new products, competitive pricing dynamics, geographic and/or market segment pricing strategies cause our gross margins to fluctuate. in addition, forecasting our gross margins is difficult because the majority of our business is based on turns within the same quarter. reductions in the average selling prices of our products could have a negative impact on our gross margins. the average selling prices of our products generally decline as the products mature. we seek to offset the decrease in selling prices through yield improvement, manufacturing cost reductions and increased unit sales. we also continue to develop higher value products or product features that increase, or slow the decline of, the average selling price of our products. however, there is no guarantee that our ongoing efforts will be successful or that they will keep pace with the decline in selling prices of our products, which could ultimately lead to a decline in revenues and have a negative effect on our gross margins. 14 table of contents because of our international business and operations, we are vulnerable to the economic conditions of the countries in which we operate and currency fluctuations could have a material adverse affect on our business and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. in addition to our u.s. operations, we also have significant international operations, including foreign sales offices to support our international customers and distributors, our regional headquarters in ireland and singapore and a research and development site in india. in connection with the restructuring we announced in april 2009, our international operations grew as we relocated certain operations and administrative functions outside the u.s. sales and operations outside of the u.s. subject us to the risks associated with conducting business in foreign economic and regulatory environments. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in countries in which we do significant business or by changes in foreign currency exchange rates affecting those countries. we derive over one-half of our revenues from international sales, primarily in the asia pacific region, europe and japan. past economic weakness in these markets adversely affected revenues. while there have been signs of economic recovery in the u.s. and other markets, there can be no assurance that such improvement will continue or is sustainable. sales to all direct oems and distributors are denominated in u.s. dollars. while the recent movement of the euro and yen against the u.s. dollar had no material impact to our business, increased volatility could impact our european and japanese customers. currency instability and volatility and disruptions in the credit and capital markets may increase credit risks for some of our customers and may impair our customers ability to repay existing obligations. increased currency volatility could also positively or negatively impact our foreign-currency-denominated costs, assets and liabilities. in addition, devaluation of the u.s. dollar relative to other foreign currencies may increase the operating expenses of our foreign subsidiaries adversely affecting our results of operations. furthermore, because we are increasingly dependent on the global economy, instability in worldwide economic environments occasioned, for example, by political instability, terrorist activity or u.s. or other military actions could adversely impact economic activity and lead to a contraction of capital spending by our customers. any or all of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. we are subject to the risks associated with conducting business operations outside of the u.s. which could adversely affect our business. in addition to international sales and support operations and development activities, we purchase our wafers from foreign foundries and have our commercial products assembled, packaged and tested by subcontractors located outside the u.s. all of these activities are subject to the uncertainties associated with international business operations, including tax laws and regulations, trade barriers, economic sanctions, import and export regulations, duties and tariffs and other trade restrictions, changes in trade policies, foreign governmental regulations, potential vulnerability of and reduced protection for ip, longer receivable collection periods and disruptions or delays in production or shipments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. additional factors that could adversely affect us due to our international operations include rising oil prices and increased costs of natural resources. moreover, our financial condition and results of operations could be affected in the event of political conflicts or economic crises in countries where our main wafer providers, end customers and contract manufacturers who provide assembly and test services worldwide, are located. adverse change to the circumstances or conditions of our international business operations could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and changes in credit rating and in the market values of our portfolio investments which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. our cash, short-term and long-term investments represent significant assets that may be subject to fluctuating or even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements, changes in credit rating and financial market conditions. since september 2007, the global credit markets have experienced adverse conditions that have negatively impacted the values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities. during this time, the global credit and capital markets experienced significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system, uncertainty related to global economic conditions and concerns regarding sovereign financial stability. while general conditions in the global credit markets have improved, there is a risk that we may incur other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments should credit market conditions deteriorate or the underlying assets fail to perform as anticipated. our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair values of our debt securities is judged to be other than temporary. furthermore, we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or financial market conditions. 15 table of contents our failure to protect and defend our intellectual property could impair our ability to compete effectively. we rely upon patent, copyright, trade secret, mask work and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property. we cannot provide assurance that such intellectual property rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, violated, circumvented or challenged. from time to time, third parties, including our competitors, have asserted against us patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to us. third parties may attempt to misappropriate our ip through electronic or other means or assert infringement claims against our indemnitees or us in the future. such assertions by third parties may result in costly litigation, indemnity claims or other legal actions and we may not prevail in such matters or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. this could result in the loss of our ability to import and sell our products. any infringement claim, indemnification claim, or impairment or loss of use of our intellectual property could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we rely on information technology systems, and failure of these systems to function properly or unauthorized access to our systems could result in business disruption. we rely in part on various information technology (it) systems to manage our operations, including financial reporting, and we regularly evaluate these systems and make changes to improve them as necessary. consequently, we periodically implement new, or enhance existing, operational and it systems, procedures and controls. for example, we recently simplified our supply chain and were required to make certain changes to our it systems. any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. these systems are also subject to power and telecommunication outages or other general system failures. failure of our it systems or difficulties in managing them could result in business disruption. we also may be subject to unauthorized access to our it systems through a security breach or attack. we seek to detect and investigate any security incidents and prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. our business could be significantly harmed and we could be subject to third party claims in the event of such a security breach. earthquakes and other natural disasters could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. the independent foundries upon which we rely to manufacture our products, as well as our california and singapore facilities, are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. umc foundries in taiwan and toshiba and seiko foundries in japan as well as many of our operations in california are centered in areas that have been seismically active in the recent past and some areas have been affected by other natural disasters such as typhoons. any catastrophic event in these locations will disrupt our operations, including our manufacturing activities. this type of disruption could result in our inability to manufacture or ship products, thereby materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. our insurance may not cover losses resulting from such disruptions of our operations. additionally, disruption of operations at these foundries for any reason, including other natural disasters such as typhoons, volcano eruptions, fires or floods, as well as disruptions in access to adequate supplies of electricity, natural gas or water could cause delays in shipments of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls, our stock price could be adversely affected. we are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (the act). our controls necessary for continued compliance with the act may not operate effectively at all times and may result in a material weakness disclosure. the identification of material weaknesses in internal control, if any, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements and could cause investors to lose confidence and our stock price to drop. we compete with others to attract and retain key personnel, and any loss of, or inability to attract, such personnel would harm us. we depend on the efforts and abilities of certain key members of management and other technical personnel. our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to retain such personnel and attract and retain other highly qualified personnel, particularly product engineers. competition for such personnel is intense and we may not be successful in hiring or retaining new or existing qualified personnel. from time to time we have effected restructurings which eliminate a number of positions. even if such personnel are not directly affected by the restructuring effort, such terminations can have a negative impact on morale and our ability to attract and hire new qualified personnel in the future. if we lose existing qualified personnel or are unable to hire new qualified personnel, as needed, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. unfavorable results of legal proceedings could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. from time to time we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business. certain claims are not yet resolved, including those that are discussed under item 3. legal proceedings, included in part i, and additional claims may arise in the future. results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. regardless of its merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention and we may enter into material settlements to avoid these risks. should we fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against us in the same reporting period, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that would materially and adversely affect a portion of our business and might materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. 16 table of contents our products could have defects which could result in reduced revenues and claims against us. we develop complex and evolving products that include both hardware and software. despite our testing efforts and those of our subcontractors, defects may be found in existing or new products. these defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair or replacement costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with customers. subject to certain terms and conditions, we have agreed to compensate certain customers for limited specified costs they actually incur in the event our hardware products experience epidemic failure. as a result, epidemic failure and other performance problems could result in claims against us, the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and would likely harm our business. our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. in addition, we could be subject to product liability claims. a product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly to defend. product liability risks are particularly significant with respect to aerospace, automotive and medical applications because of the risk of serious harm to users of these products. any product liability claim, whether or not determined in our favor, could result in significant expense, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and harm our business. in preparing our financial statements, we make good faith estimates and judgments that may change or turn out to be erroneous. in preparing our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the u. s., we must make estimates and judgments in applying our most critical accounting policies. those estimates and judgments have a significant impact on the results we report in our consolidated financial statements. the most difficult estimates and subjective judgments that we make concern valuation of marketable and non-marketable securities, revenue recognition, inventories, long-lived assets, goodwill, taxes and stock-based compensation. we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. we also have other key accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult, but which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial reporting. actual results may differ materially from these estimates. if these estimates or their related assumptions change, our operating results for the periods in which we revise our estimates or assumptions could be adversely and perhaps materially affected. our failure to comply with the requirements of the international traffic and arms regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. based on a recent jurisdictional ruling, certain xilinx space-grade fpgas and related technologies are subject to the international traffic in arms regulations (itar), which are administered by the u.s. department of state. the itar governs the export and reexport of these fpgas, the transfer of related technical data and the provision of defense services, as well as offshore production, test and assembly. we are required to maintain an internal compliance program and security infrastructure to meet itar requirements. an inability to obtain the required export licenses, or to predict when they will be granted, increases the difficulties of forecasting shipments. in addition, security or compliance program failures that could result in penalties or a loss of export privileges, as well as stringent itar licensing restrictions that may make our products less attractive to overseas customers, could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. considerable amounts of our common shares are available for issuance under our equity incentive plans and convertible debentures, and significant issuances in the future may adversely impact the market price of our common shares. as of april 3, 2010, we had 2.00 billion authorized common shares, of which 273.5 million shares were outstanding. in addition, 54.7 million common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to our equity incentive plans and employee stock purchase plan, and 22.6 million shares were reserved for issuance upon conversion or repurchase of the convertible debentures. the availability of substantial amounts of our common shares resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity incentive plans or the conversion or repurchase of convertible debentures using common shares, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. 17 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 36 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our investment portfolio, which consists of fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $1.74 billion as of april 3, 2010. our primary aim with our investment portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal and meeting liquidity needs. our investment portfolio includes municipal bonds, floating rate notes, mortgage-backed securities, bank certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate bonds, student loan auction rate securities and u.s. and foreign government and agency securities. in accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer based upon the issuer credit rating. these securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. a hypothetical 100 basis-point (one percentage point) increase or decrease in interest rates compared to rates at april 3, 2010 and march 28, 2009 would have affected the fair value of our investment portfolio by less than $10.0 million and $6.0 million, respectively. credit market risk since september 2007, the global credit markets have experienced adverse conditions that have negatively impacted the values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities. during this time, the global credit and capital markets experienced significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system, uncertainty related to global economic conditions and concerns regarding sovereign financial stability. while general conditions in the global credit markets have improved, there is a risk that we may incur additional other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments should credit market conditions deteriorate. see note 4. financial instruments to our consolidated financial statements, included inrisk factors 12 risk factors. often, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words, such as may, will, could, should, expect, believe, anticipate, estimate, continue, plan, intend, project and other similar terminology, or the negative of such terms. we disclaim any responsibility to update or revise any forward-looking statement provided in this annual report or in any of our other communications for any reason. item 1. business xilinx, inc. (xilinx, the company or we) designs, develops and markets programmable platforms. these programmable platforms have several components: integrated circuits (ics) in the form of programmable logic devices (plds), including extensible processing platforms (epps); software design tools to program the plds; targeted reference designs; printed circuit boards; and intellectual property (ip), which consists of xilinx and various third-party verification and ip cores. in addition to its programmable platforms, xilinx provides design services, customer training, field engineering and technical support. our plds include field programmable gate arrays (fpgas), complex programmable logic devices (cplds) that our customers program to perform desired logic functions and epps, which combine industry standard arm processor-based systems with programmable logic in a single device. our products are designed to provide high integration and quick time-to-market for electronic equipment manufacturers in end markets such as wired and wireless communications, industrial, scientific and medical, aerospace and defense, audio, video and broadcast, consumer, automotive and data processing. we sell our products globally through independent domestic and foreign distributors and through direct sales to original equipment manufacturers (oems) by a network of independent sales representative firms and by a direct sales management organization. xilinx was founded and incorporated in california in february 1984. in april 1990, the company reincorporated in delaware. our corporate facilities and executive offices are located at 2100 logic drive, san jose, california 95124, and our website address is www.xilinx.com. industry overview there are three principal types of ics used in most digital electronic systems: processors, which generally are utilized for control and computing tasks; memory devices, which are used for storing program instructions and data; and logic devices, which generally are used to manage the interchange and manipulation of digital signals within a system. xilinx designs and develops plds, a type of logic device. alternatives to plds include application specific integrated circuits (asics) and application specific standard products (assps). plds, asics and assps compete with each other since they may be utilized in many of the same types of applications within electronic systems. however, variations in unit pricing, development cost, product performance, reliability, power consumption, capacity, functionality, ease of use and time-to-market determine the degree to which the devices compete for specific applications. plds have key competitive advantages over competing asics and assps, including: faster time-to-market and increased design flexibility. both of these advantages are enabled by xilinx desktop software which allows users to implement and revise their designs quickly. in contrast, asics and assps require significant development time and offer limited, if any, flexibility to make design changes. plds are standard components. this means that the same device can be sold to many different users for a myriad of applications. in sharp contrast, asics and assps are customized for an individual user or a specific application. 3 table of contents plds are generally disadvantaged in terms of relative device size. asics and assps tend to be smaller than plds, resulting in a lower unit cost. however, there is a high fixed cost associated with asic and assp development that is not applicable to pld customers. this fixed cost of development is expected to significantly increase on next generation technology nodes. from a total cost of development perspective, asics and assps have generally been more cost effective when used in high-volume production; and plds have generally been more cost effective when used in low- to mid-volume production. however, we expect plds to be able to address higher volume applications and gain market share from asic and assp suppliers as the fixed cost of asic and assp development increases on next generation technology nodes, eroding their respective cost advantages. an overview of typical pld end market applications for our products is shown in the following table: end markets sub-segments applications communications wireless 3g/4g base stations wireless backhaul wireline metro area networks optical networks enterprise switches mid-end and high-end routers industrial and other industrial, scientific and medical factory automation medical imaging test and measurement equipment aerospace and defense satellite surveillance radar and sonar systems secure communications consumer and automotive consumer digital televisions digital video recorders settop boxes automotive infotainment systems driver information systems vision-based driver assistance systems audio, video and broadcast cable head-end systems post production equipment broadcast cameras data processing storage and servers security and encryption computer peripherals office automation copiers printers strategy and competition our strategy for expansion is the displacement of asics and assps in the development of next generation electronic systems. the costs and risks associated with application-specific devices can only be justified for a short list of high volume commodity products. programmable platforms, alternatively, are becoming critical for our customers to meet increasingly stringent product requirements cost, power, performance and density in a business environment characterized by increased complexity, shrinking market windows, rapidly changing market demands, capped engineering budgets, escalating asic and assp non-recurring engineering costs and increased economic and development risk. with every new generation of fpgas, our strategy is to increase the performance, densities and system-level functionality, while driving down cost and power consumption at each manufacturing process node. secondly, our strategy is to provide simpler, smarter programmable platforms and design methodologies that free up engineers to focus on end product innovation and differentiation. 4 table of contents our plds compete in the logic ic industry, an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion. we expect increased competition from our primary pld competitors, altera corporation (altera), lattice semiconductor corporation (lattice) and microsemi corporation (microsemi), and from new companies that may enter the traditional programmable logic market segment. in addition, we expect continued competition from the asic market, which has been ongoing since the inception of fpgas, and the assp market. other competitors include manufacturers of: high-density programmable logic products characterized by fpga-type architectures; high-volume and low-cost fpgas as programmable replacements for asics and assps; asics and assps with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; high-speed, low-density cplds; high-performance digital signal processing (dsp) devices; products with embedded processors; products with embedded multi-gigabit transceivers; and other new or emerging programmable logic products. we believe that important competitive factors in the logic ic industry include: product pricing; time-to-market; product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density; field upgradability; adaptability of products to specific applications; ease of use and functionality of software design tools; availability and functionality of predefined ip; inventory and supply chain management; access to leading-edge process technology and assembly capacity; and ability to provide timely customer service and support. silicon product overview a brief overview of the silicon product offerings follows in the table below. these products, other than the 28-nanometer (nm) product families that we introduced in fiscal 2011, comprise the majority of our revenues. additionally, some of our more mature product families have been excluded from the table, although they continue to generate revenues. we operate and track our results in one operating segment for financial reporting purposes. product families plds date introduced capacity process technology virtex -7 june 2010 286k to 2m logic cells 28-nm kintex -7 june 2010 30k to 478k logic cells 28-nm artix -7 june 2010 18k to 352k logic cells 28-nm zynq -7000 march 2011 28k to 235k logic cells 28-nm virtex-6 february 2009 75k to 760k logic cells 40-nm spartan -6 february 2009 4k to 150k logic cells 45-nm virtex-5 may 2006 20k to 330k logic cells 65-nm virtex-4 june 2004 12k to 200k logic cells 90-nm spartan-3a december 2006 2k to 54k logic cells 90-nm spartan-3e march 2005 2k to 33k logic cells 90-nm spartan-3 april 2003 2k to 75k logic cells 90-nm 5 table of contents see information under the caption results of operations net revenues in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for information about our revenues from our product families. 28-nm product families the 7 series devices are fabricated on a high-k metal gate, high performance, low power 28-nm process technology. these devices are based on a unified architecture, which enables design and ip portability across all families and provides designers the ability to achieve the appropriate combination of i/o support, performance, feature quantities, packaging and power consumption to address a wide range of applications. the 7 series devices consist of the following three families: virtex-7 fpgas are optimized for applications requiring the highest capacity, performance, dsp and serial connectivity. target applications include 400g and 100g line cards, high-performance computing and test and measurement applications. kintex-7 fpgas represent xilinx first mid-range fpga family. these devices maximize price-performance and performance per watt. target applications include wireless lte infrastructure, video display technology and medical imaging. artix-7 fpgas offer the lowest power and system cost at higher performance than alternative high volume fpgas. these devices are targeted to high volume applications such as handheld portable ultrasound devices, multi-function printers and software defined radio. the zynq-7000 family is first family of xilinx epps. this new class of product combines an industry-standard arm dual-core cortex -a9 mpcore processing system with xilinx unified 28-nm architecture. there are four devices in the zynq-7000 epp family that allow designers to target cost sensitive as well as high-performance applications from a single platform using industry-standard tools. these devices are expected to enable incremental market opportunities in applications such as industrial motor control, driver assistance and smart surveillance systems. 40-nm and 45-nm product families the virtex-6 fpga family consists of 13 devices and is the sixth generation in the virtex series of fpgas. virtex-6 fpgas are fabricated on a high-performance, 40-nm process technology. there are three virtex-6 families, and each is optimized to deliver different feature mixes to address a variety of markets as follows: virtex-6 lxt fpgas optimized for applications that require high-performance logic, dsp and serial connectivity with low-power 6.6g serial transceivers. virtex-6 sxt fpgas optimized for applications that require ultra high-performance dsp and serial connectivity with low-power 6.6g serial transceivers. virtex-6 hxt fpgas optimized for communications applications that require the highest-speed serial connectivity with up to 11.2g serial transceivers. the latest generation in the spartan fpga series, the spartan-6 fpga family, is fabricated on a low-power 45-nm process technology. the spartan-6 family is the pld industry first 45-nm high-volume fpga family, consisting of 11 devices in two product families: spartan-6 lx fpgas optimized for applications that require the lowest cost. spartan-6 lxt fpgas optimized for applications that require lx features plus 3.125g serial transceivers. 6 table of contents 65-nm product families the virtex-5 fpga family consists of 26 devices in five product families: virtex-5 lx fpgas for logic-intensive designs, virtex-5 lxt fpgas for high-performance logic with serial connectivity, virtex-5 sxt fpgas for high-performance dsp with serial connectivity, virtex-5 fxt fpgas for embedded processing with serial connectivity and virtex-5 txt fpgas for high-bandwidth serial connectivity. other product families prior generation virtex families include virtex-4, virtex-ii pro, virtex-ii, virtex-e and the original virtex family. spartan family fpgas include 90-nm spartan-3 fpgas, the spartan-3e family and the spartan-3a family. prior generation spartan families include spartan-iie, spartan-ii, spartan xl and the original spartan family. cplds operate on the lowest end of the programmable logic density spectrum. cplds are single-chip, nonvolatile solutions characterized by instant-on and universal interconnect. cplds combine the advantages of ultra low power consumption with the benefits of high performance and low cost. prior generations of cplds include the coolrunner and xc9500 product families. easypath fpgas easypath fpgas offer customers a fast, simple method of cost-reducing fpga designs. easypath fpgas use the same production masks and fabrication process as standard fpgas and are tested to a specific customer application to improve yield and lower costs. as a result, easypath fpgas provide customers with significant cost reduction when compared to the standard fpga devices without the conversion risk, engineering effort, or the additional time required to move to an asic. the latest generation of easypath fpgas and easypath-7 fpgas provide lower total product cost of ownership for cost-reducing high performance fpgas. design platforms and services programmable platforms we offer three types of programmable platforms that support our customers designs and reduce their development efforts: the base platform is the delivery vehicle for all of our new silicon offerings used to develop and run customer-specific software applications and hardware designs. released at launch, the base platform is comprised of: fpga silicon; integrated software environment (ise ) design suite design environment; integration support of optional third-party synthesis, simulation, and signal integrity tools; reference designs; development boards and ip. the domain-specific platform targets one of the three primary xilinx fpga user profiles: the embedded processing developer; the dsp developer; or the logic/connectivity developer. it accomplishes this by augmenting the base platform with a targeted set of integrated technologies, including: higher-level design methodologies and tools; domain-specific ip including embedded, dsp and connectivity; domain-specific development hardware and reference designs; and operating systems and software. the market-specific platform enables software or hardware developers to quickly build and run their specific application or solution. built for specific markets such as automotive, consumer, aerospace and defense, communications, audio, video and broadcast, industrial, or scientific and medical, the market-specific platform integrates both the base and domain-specific platforms with higher targeted applications elements such as ip, reference designs and boards optimized for a particular market. design tools to accommodate the various design methodologies and design flows employed by the wide range of our customers user profiles such as system designers, algorithm designers, software coders and logic designers, we provide the appropriate design environment tailored to each user profile for design creation, design implementation and design verification. the xilinx ise design suite features a complete tool chain for the three domain-specific categories: embedded, dsp and logic/connectivity. to further enhance productivity and help customers better manage the complexity of their designs, the ise design suite enables designers to target area, performance, or power by simply selecting a design goal in the setup. in fiscal 2011 we acquired autoesl design technologies, inc (autoesl), a leading provider of high level c,c and system c synthesis technology to provide a more direct flow in retargeting dsps and general purpose processors designs into our fpgas. the xilinx ise design suite also interoperates with a wide range of third-party electronic design automation (eda) software point-tools offerings. intellectual property xilinx and various third parties offer hundreds of no charge and fee-bearing ip core licenses covering ethernet, memory controllers and pcie interface, as well as an abundance of domain-specific ip in the areas of embedded, dsp and connectivity, as well as market-specific ip cores. in addition, our products and technology leverage industry standards such as arm amba axi-4 interconnect technology, ip_xact and ieee p1735 encryption to facilitate plug-and-play fpga design and take advantage of the large ecosystem of arm ip developers. 7 table of contents development boards, kits and configuration products in addition to the broad selection of legacy development boards presently offered, we have introduced a new unified board strategy that enables the creation of a standardized and coordinated set of base boards available both from xilinx and our ecosystem partners, all utilizing the industry-standard extensions that enable customization for market specific applications. adopting this standard for all of our base boards enables the creation of a unified, scalable and extensible delivery mechanism for all xilinx programmable platforms. we also offer comprehensive development kits including hardware, design tools, ip and reference designs that are designed to streamline and accelerate the development of domain-specific and market-specific applications. finally, xilinx offers a range of configuration products including one-time programmable and in-system programmable storage devices to configure xilinx fpgas. these prom (programmable read-only memory) products support all of our fpga devices. third-party alliances xilinx and certain third parties have developed and continue to offer a robust ecosystem of ip, boards, tools, services and support through the xilinx alliance program. xilinx also works with these third parties to promote our programmable platforms through third-party tools, ip, software, boards and design services. engineering services xilinx engineering services provide customers with engineering resources to augment their design teams and to provide expert design-specific advice. xilinx tailors its engineering services to the needs of its customers, ranging from hands-on training to full design creation and implementation. research and development our research and development (r d) activities are primarily directed toward the design of new ics, the development of new software design automation tools for hardware and embedded software, the design of logic ip, the adoption of advanced semiconductor manufacturing processes for ongoing cost reductions, performance and signal integrity improvements and lowering pld power consumption. as a result of our r d efforts, we have introduced a number of new products during the past several years including the virtex-7, kintex-7, artix-7, and zynq 7000. virtex-6 and spartan-6 families. additionally, we have made enhancements to our ip core offerings and introduced new versions of our ise design suite. we extended our collaboration with our foundry suppliers in the development of 65-nm, 45-nm and 40-nm manufacturing technology and we were the first company in the pld industry to ship 45-nm high-volume as well as 28-nm fpga devices. our r d challenge is to continue to develop new products that create cost-effective solutions for customers. in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, our r d expenses were $392.5 million, $369.5 million and $355.4 million, respectively. we believe technical leadership and innovation are essential to our future success and are committed to maintaining a significant level of r d investment. sales and distribution we sell our products to oems and to electronic components distributors who resell these products to oems or contract manufacturers. we use dedicated global sales and marketing organizations as well as independent sales representatives to generate sales. in general, we focus our direct demand creation efforts on a limited number of key accounts with independent sales representatives often serving those customers in defined territories. distributors create demand within the balance of our customer base. distributors also provide vendor-managed inventory, value-added services and logistics for a wide range of our oem customers. whether xilinx, the independent sales representative, or the distributor identifies the sales opportunity, a local distributor will process and fulfill the majority of all customer orders. in such situations, distributors are the sellers of the products and as such they bear all legal and financial risks generally related to the sale of commercial goods, such as credit loss, inventory shrinkage, theft and foreign currency fluctuations, but excluding indemnity and warranty liability. in accordance with our distribution agreements and industry practice, we have granted our authorized distributors the contractual right to return certain amounts of unsold product on a periodic basis and also receive price adjustments for unsold product in the case of a subsequent change in list prices. revenue recognition on shipments to distributors worldwide is deferred until the products are sold to the distributors end customers. 8 table of contents avnet, inc. (avnet) distributes the substantial majority of our products worldwide. no end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues in fiscal 2011, 2010 or 2009. as of april 2, 2011 and april 3, 2010, avnet accounted for 79% and 83%, respectively, of our total accounts receivable. resale of product through avnet accounted for 51%, 49% and 55% of our worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. we also use other regional distributors throughout the world. we believe distributors provide a cost-effective means of reaching a broad range of customers while providing efficient logistics services. since plds are standard products, they do not present many of the inventory risks to distributors posed by asics, and they simplify the requirements for distributor technical support. from time to time, we may add or terminate distributors in specific geographies, or move customers to a direct support model as we deem appropriate given our strategies, the level of distributor business activity and distributor performance and financial condition. for example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we terminated our relationship with one of our north american-based distributors. see note 2. summary of significant accounting policies and concentrations of risk to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, for information about concentrations of credit risk and note 17. segment information for information about our revenues from external customers and domestic and international operations. backlog as of april 2, 2011, our backlog from oem customers and backlog from end customers reported by our distributors scheduled for delivery within the next three months was $266.0 million, compared to $282.0 million as of april 3, 2010. orders from end customers to our distributors are subject to changes in delivery schedules or to cancellation without significant penalty. as a result, backlogs from both oem customers and end customers reported by our distributors as of any particular period may not be a reliable indicator of revenue for any future period. wafer fabrication as a fabless semiconductor company, we do not manufacture wafers used for our ic products or proms. rather, we purchase wafers from multiple foundries including united microelectronics corporation (umc), taiwan semiconductor manufacturing company limited (tsmc), toshiba corporation (toshiba), seiko epson corporation (seiko), samsung electronics co., ltd. (samsung) and he jian technology (suzhou) co., ltd. currently, umc manufactures the substantial majority of our wafers. precise terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations with each wafer foundry. our strategy is to focus our resources on market development and creating new ics and software design tools rather than on wafer fabrication. we continuously evaluate opportunities to enhance foundry relationships and/or obtain additional capacity from our main suppliers as well as other suppliers of wafers manufactured with leading-edge process technologies. sort, assembly and test wafers are sorted by the foundry or independent sort subcontractors. sorted die are assembled by subcontractors. during the assembly process, the wafers are separated into individual die, which are then assembled into various package types. following assembly, the packaged units are generally tested by xilinx personnel at our singapore facility or by independent test subcontractors. we purchase most of our assembly and some of our test services from siliconware precision industries ltd. in taiwan, amkor technology, inc. in korea and the philippines and stats chippac ltd. in singapore. quality certification xilinx has achieved quality management systems certification for iso 9001:2000 for our facilities in san jose, california; dublin, ireland; longmont, colorado; singapore and albuquerque, new mexico. in addition, xilinx achieved iso 14001 and tl 9000 environmental and quality certifications in the san jose, dublin, singapore and albuquerque locations. patents and licenses while our various proprietary intellectual property rights are important to our success, we believe our business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. as of april 2, 2011, we held more than 2,500 issued united states (u.s.) patents, which vary in duration, and over 600 pending u.s. patent applications relating to our proprietary technology. we maintain an active program of filing for additional patents in the areas of, but not limited to, circuits, software, ic architecture, ip, system design, testing methodologies and other technologies relating to our products and business. we have licensed some parties to certain portions of our patent portfolio and obtained licenses to certain third-party patents as well. 9 table of contents we have acquired various licenses from third parties to certain technologies that are implemented in ip or embedded in our plds, such as processors. those licenses support our continuing ability to make and sell these plds to our customers. we also sublicense certain third-party proprietary software and open-source software, such as compilers, for our design tools. continued use of those software components is important to the operation of the design tools upon which customers depend. we maintain the xilinx trade name as well as numerous trademarks, and registered trademarks including xilinx, the xilinx logo, artix, kintex, virtex, spartan, ise, zynq and associated logos. maintaining these rights, and the goodwill associated with these trademarks and logos, is important to our business. we also have license rights to use certain trademarks owned by consortiums and other trademark owners that are related to our products and business. we intend to continue to protect our ip (including, for example, patents, copyrights and trademarks) vigorously. we believe that failure to enforce our intellectual property rights or failure to protect our trade secrets effectively could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we incurred, and in the future we may continue to incur, litigation expenses to defend against claims of infringement and to enforce our intellectual property rights against third parties. however, any such litigation may or may not be successful. employees as of april 2, 2011, we had 3,099 employees compared to 2,948 as of the end of the prior fiscal year. none of our employees are represented by a labor union. we have not experienced any work stoppages and believe we maintain good employee relations. executive officers of the registrant certain information regarding the executive officers of xilinx as of june 1, 2011 is set forth below: name age position moshe n. gavrielov 56 president and chief executive officer (ceo) scott r. hover-smoot 56 vice president, general counsel and secretary jon a. olson 57 senior vice president, finance and chief financial officer (cfo) victor peng 51 senior vice president, programmable platforms development raja g. petrakian 47 senior vice president, worldwide operations vincent f. ratford 59 senior vice president, worldwide marketing and business development vincent l. tong 49 senior vice president, worldwide quality and new product introductions frank a. tornaghi 56 senior vice president, worldwide sales there are no family relationships among the executive officers of the company or the board of directors. moshe n. gavrielov joined the company in january 2008 as president and ceo and was appointed to the board of directors in february 2008. prior to joining the company, mr. gavrielov served at cadence design systems, inc., an electronic design automation company, as executive vice president and general manager of the verification division from april 2005 through november 2007. mr. gavrielov served as ceo of verisity ltd., an electronic design automation company, from march 1998 to april 2005 prior to its acquisition by cadence design systems, inc. prior to joining verisity, mr. gavrielov spent nearly 10 years at lsi corporation (formerly lsi logic corporation), a semiconductor manufacturer, in a variety of executive management positions, including executive vice president of the products group, senior vice president and general manager of international marketing and sales and senior vice president and general manager of lsi logic europe plc. prior to joining lsi corporation, mr. gavrielov held various engineering and engineering management positions at digital equipment corporation and national semiconductor corporation. scott r. hover-smoot joined the company in october 2007 as vice president, general counsel and secretary. from november 2001 to october 2007, mr. hover-smoot served as regional counsel and director of legal operations with tsmc, an independent semiconductor foundry. he served as vice president and general counsel of california micro devices corporation, a provider of application-specific protection devices and display electronics devices from june 1994 to november 2001. prior to joining california micro devices corporation, mr. hover-smoot spent over 20 years working in law firms including berliner-cohen, flehr, hohbach, test, albritton herbert and lyon lyon. jon a. olson joined the company in june 2005 as vice president, finance and cfo. mr. olson was promoted to his current position of senior vice president, finance and cfo in august 2006. prior to joining the company, mr. olson spent more than 25 years at intel corporation, a semiconductor chip maker, serving in a variety of positions, including vice president, finance and enterprise services, director of finance. 10 table of contents victor peng joined the company in april 2008 as senior vice president, silicon engineering group and assumed his current position of senior vice president, programmable platforms development in november 2008. prior to joining the company, mr. peng served as corporate vice president, graphics products group at advanced micro devices (amd), a provider of processing solutions, from november 2005 to april 2008. before joining amd, mr. peng served as vice president of silicon engineering in the graphics products group business unit at ati technologies, a graphics processor unit provider, from november 2005 until its acquisition by amd. before joining ati technologies, mr. peng served as vice president of engineering at tzero technologies, a fabless semiconductor company, from september 2004 to april 2005. from november 2000 to september 2004, mr. peng served as vice president of engineering at mips technologies, a semiconductor design ip company. raja g. petrakian joined the company in october 1995 and has served in a number of key roles within operations, most recently as senior director of supply chain management and vice president of supply chain management. dr. petrakian was promoted to his current position of senior vice president, worldwide operations in march 2009. prior to joining xilinx, dr. petrakian spent more than three years at the ibm t.j. research center serving as a research staff member in the manufacturing research department. vincent f. ratford joined the company in january 2006 as senior director of marketing and business development. mr. ratford was promoted to vice president and general manager in october 2007. he was promoted to senior vice president, solutions development group in april 2008 and assumed his current position of senior vice president, worldwide marketing in november 2008. prior to joining the company, he served as president and ceo of accelchip, inc., a provider of synthesis software tools for designing dsp systems, from july 2004 until its acquisition by xilinx in january 2006. prior to that, mr. ratford operated the consulting firm, deeptech consulting, from april 2002 to july 2004. mr. ratford worked at virage logic corporation, a provider of semiconductor ip, as vice president of marketing and business development from july 2000 to april 2002 and as vice president of sales and marketing from february 1998 to july 2000. before joining virage logic, mr. ratford served as chief operating officer of the microtec division of mentor graphics, a provider of hardware and software design solutions to semiconductor companies, from october 1995 to december 1997. before joining the microtec division, he was director of marketing for mentor graphics system design division from may 1993 to october 1995. vincent l. tong joined the company in may 1990 and has served in a number of key roles, most recently as vice president of product technology and as vice president, worldwide quality and reliability. in april 2008, he was promoted to his current position of senior vice president, worldwide quality and new product introductions. prior to joining the company, mr. tong served in a variety of engineering positions at monolithic memories, a producer of logic devices, and amd. mr. tong serves on the board of the global semiconductor alliance, a non-profit semiconductor organization. frank a. tornaghi joined the company in february 2008 as vice president, worldwide sales and was promoted to his current position of senior vice president, worldwide sales in april 2008. prior to joining the company, mr. tornaghi spent 22 years at lsi corporation. mr. tornaghi acted as an independent consultant from april 2006 until he joined the company. he served as executive vice president, worldwide sales at lsi corporation from july 2001 to april 2006 and as vice president, north america sales, from may 1993 to july 2001. from 1984 until may 1993, mr. tornaghi held various management positions in sales at lsi corporation. additional information we make available, via a link through our investor relations website located at www.investor.xilinx.com , access to our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the u.s. securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (exchange act) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission (sec). all such filings on our investor relations website are available free of charge. printed copies of these documents are also available to stockholders without charge, upon written request directed to xilinx, inc., attn: investor relations, 2100 logic drive, san jose, ca 95124. further, a copy of this annual report on form 10-k is located at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room can be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings at http://www.sec.gov . the content on any website referred to in this filing is not incorporated by reference into this filing unless expressly noted otherwise. additional information required by this item 1 is incorporated by reference to the section captioned net revenues net revenues by geography in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and to note 17. segment information to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. this annual report includes trademarks and service marks of xilinx and other companies that are unregistered and registered in the u.s. and other countries. 11 table of contents item 1a. risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks to the company. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or that the company management currently deems immaterial also may impair its business operations. if any of the risks described below were to occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. our success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products and failure to do so would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. our success depends in large part on our ability to develop and introduce new products that address customer requirements and compete effectively on the basis of price, density, functionality, power consumption and performance. the success of new product introductions is dependent upon several factors, including: timely completion of new product designs; ability to generate new design opportunities or design wins; availability of specialized field application engineering resources supporting demand creation and customer adoption of new products; ability to utilize advanced manufacturing process technologies on circuit geometries of 45-nm and smaller; achieving acceptable yields; ability to obtain adequate production capacity from our wafer foundries and assembly and test subcontractors; ability to obtain advanced packaging; availability of supporting software design tools; utilization of predefined ip of logic; customer acceptance of advanced features in our new products; and market acceptance of our customers products. our product development efforts may not be successful, our new products may not achieve industry acceptance and we may not achieve the necessary volume of production that would lead to further per unit cost reductions. revenues relating to our mature products are expected to decline in the future, which is normal for our product life cycles. as a result, we may be increasingly dependent on revenues derived from design wins for our newer products as well as anticipated cost reductions in the manufacture of our current products. we rely primarily on obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture of existing products, and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and other price/performance factors that enable us to increase revenues while maintaining consistent margins. to the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner, or to the extent that our products do not achieve market acceptance at prices with higher margins, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we rely on independent foundries for the manufacture of all of our products and a manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could adversely affect our operations. nearly all of our wafers were manufactured either in taiwan, by umc, or in japan, by toshiba. in addition, the wafers for our older products are manufactured in japan by seiko and the wafers for some of our newer products are manufactured in south korea, by samsung and in taiwan, by tsmc. terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations between xilinx and these wafer foundries, which usually result in short-term agreements that do not provide for long-term supply or allocation commitments. we are dependent on these foundries, especially umc, which supplies the substantial majority of our wafers. we rely on umc and our other foundries to produce wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes. therefore, the foundries must be able to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies and increased wafer sizes, produce wafers at acceptable yields and deliver them in a timely manner. we cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our wafers will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies or difficulties due to limitations of new and existing process technologies. furthermore, we cannot guarantee the foundries will be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products or continue to manufacture a product for the full life of the product. in addition, unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of the foundries and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us. for example, in the first quarter of fiscal 2010, we experienced supply shortages due to the difficulties encountered by the foundries when they had to rapidly increase their production capacities from low utilization levels to high utilization levels because of an unexpected increase in demand. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 and first nine months of fiscal 2011, we also experienced supply shortages due to very strong demand for our products and a surge in demand for semiconductors in general, which has led to tightening of foundry capacity across the industry. the insolvency of a foundry or any significant manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity would disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. we have established other sources of wafer supply for many of our products in an effort to secure a continued supply of wafers. however, establishing, maintaining and managing multiple foundry relationships require the investment of management resources as well as additional costs. if we do not manage these relationships effectively, it could adversely affect our results of operations. 12 table of contents general economic conditions and the related deterioration in the global business environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. during the past three years, global consumer confidence eroded amidst concerns over declining asset values, inflation, volatility in energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, rising unemployment, and the stability and solvency of financial institutions, financial markets, businesses and sovereign nations, among other concerns. these concerns slowed global economic growth and resulted in recessions in numerous countries, including many of those in north america, europe and asia. these economic conditions had a negative impact on our results of operations during the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2009 and the first and second quarters of fiscal 2010 due to reduced customer demand. while there have been recent improvements in global economic conditions and our results of operations improved during the second half of fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2011, there is no guarantee that these improvements will continue in the future. recent events have shown that the financial conditions of sovereign nations, particularly in europe, are of continuing concern. if unpredictable economic conditions persist or worsen, a number of negative effects on our business could result, including customers or potential customers reducing or delaying orders, the insolvency of key suppliers, which could result in production delays, the inability of customers to obtain credit, and the insolvency of one or more customers. any of these effects could impact our ability to effectively manage inventory levels and collect receivables and ultimately decrease our net revenues and profitability. the semiconductor industry is characterized by cyclical market patterns and a significant industry downturn could adversely affect our operating results. the semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and our financial performance has been affected by downturns in the industry. down cycles are generally characterized by price erosion and weaker demand for our products. weaker demand for our products resulting from economic conditions in the end markets we serve and reduced capital spending by our customers can result, and in the past has resulted in excess and obsolete inventories and corresponding inventory write-downs. we attempt to identify changes in market conditions as soon as possible; however, the dynamics of the market in which we operate make prediction of and timely reaction to such events difficult. due to these and other factors, our past results are not reliable predictors of our future results. the nature of our business makes our revenues difficult to predict which could have an adverse impact on our business. in addition to the challenging market conditions we may face, we have limited visibility into the demand for our products, particularly new products, because demand for our products depends upon our products being designed into our end customers products and those products achieving market acceptance. due to the complexity of our customers designs, the design to volume production process for our customers requires a substantial amount of time, frequently longer than a year. in addition, we are dependent upon turns (orders received and turned for shipment in the same quarter). these factors make it difficult for us to forecast future sales and project quarterly revenues. the difficulty in forecasting future sales impairs our ability to project our inventory requirements, which could result, and in the past has resulted, in inventory write-downs or failure to timely meet customer product demands. in addition, difficulty in forecasting revenues compromises our ability to provide forward-looking revenue and earnings guidance. if we are not able to successfully compete in our industry, our financial results and future prospects will be adversely affected. our plds compete in the logic ic industry, an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion. we expect increased competition from our primary pld competitors, altera, lattice and microsemi (which acquired actel corporation during the third quarter of fiscal 2011), and from new market entrants. in addition, competition from the asic market and from the assp market continues. we believe that important competitive factors in the logic ic industry include: product pricing; time-to-market; product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density; field upgradeability; adaptability of products to specific applications; ease of use and functionality of software design tools; availability and functionality of predefined ip of logic; inventory and supply chain management; access to leading-edge process technology and assembly capacity; and ability to provide timely customer service and support. our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high-volume, low-cost and low-power applications as well as high-performance, high-density applications. in addition, we anticipate continued pricing pressure from our customers to reduce prices, which may outpace our ability to lower the cost for established products. however, we may not be successful in executing these strategies. 13 table of contents other competitors include manufacturers of: high-density programmable logic products characterized by fpga-type architectures; high-volume and low-cost fpgas as programmable replacements for asics and assps; asics and assps with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; high-speed, low-density complex programmable logic devices; high-performance dsp devices; products with embedded processors; products with embedded multi-gigabit transceivers; and other new or emerging programmable logic products. several companies have introduced products that compete with ours or have announced their intention to sell pld products. to the extent that our efforts to compete are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the benefits of programmable logic have attracted a number of competitors to this segment. we recognize that different applications require different programmable technologies, and we are developing architectures, processes and products to meet these varying customer needs. recognizing the increasing importance of standard software solutions, we have developed common software design tools that support the full range of our ic products. we believe that automation and ease of design are significant competitive factors in this segment. we could also face competition from our licensees. in the past we have granted limited rights to other companies with respect to certain of our older technology, and we may do so in the future. granting such rights may enable these companies to manufacture and market products that may be competitive with some of our older products. recent events in japan may adversely impact our business. in march 2011, the northern region of japan experienced a severe earthquake followed by a tsunami and nuclear plant shutdown. these events caused significant damages in that region and have adversely affected japan infrastructure and economy. while japan is a resilient country, and we expect japan to recover from this devastation, it is unknown when such recovery will occur. certain of our foundries and manufacturing plants in our supply chain are located in japan and were negatively impacted by the natural disasters, particularly as a result of disruptions to the country power supply. for example, certain suppliers of wafers and substrates were temporarily forced to halt production. while we have secured alternate sources for these materials, there can be no assurance that we will not experience the absence of components or supplies, delays in obtaining their delivery or increases in prices in the future as the impact of the natural disasters in japan unfolds. in addition, a number of our customers are located in japan, which accounted for 8% of our revenue in fiscal 2011. as a result of the earthquake, we were temporarily unable to ship product to customers located in the areas impacted by the natural disaster. other customers not located near the epicenter of the earthquake may also be affected by the consequences of these natural disasters. if adverse conditions persist, we may experience delay or cancellation of orders from such customers, which would adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. in addition, a nuclear power plant in the region was damaged and released radiation into the atmosphere. the impact of this radiation is unknown at this time. if the consequences of the radiation are more severe than currently anticipated, our customers and suppliers may be affected. any significant disruption of our suppliers and customers business in japan could have an adverse impact on our business. increased costs of wafers and materials, or shortages in wafers and materials, could adversely impact our gross margins and lead to reduced revenues. if greater demand for wafers is not offset by an increase in foundry capacity, or market demand for wafers or production and assembly materials increases, or if a supplier of our wafers ceases or suspends operations, our supply of wafers and other materials could become limited. such shortages raise the likelihood of potential wafer price increases and wafer shortages or shortages in materials at production and test facilities and our resulting potential inability to address customer product demands in a timely manner. for example, as a result of the march 2011 earthquake in japan, certain suppliers were forced to temporarily halt production, resulting in a tightening of supply for those materials. such shortages of wafers and materials as well as increases in wafer prices or materials could adversely affect our gross margins and would adversely affect our ability to meet customer demands and lead to reduced revenue. 14 table of contents we depend on distributors, primarily avnet, to generate a majority of our sales and complete order fulfillment. resale of product through avnet accounted for 51% of our worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2011, and as of april 2, 2011, avnet accounted for 79% of our total accounts receivable. to align with our strategic initiative to consolidate our distribution channel, we have further strengthened our partnership with avnet and recently, avnet committed more personnel and resources to our business. in return for these long-term commitments, we agreed to temporarily extend payment terms for avnet, which increased our trade accounts receivable balance and days sales outstanding (dso) as of the end of our second and third quarter of fiscal 2011 compared to our historical level. our trade accounts receivable balance and dso levels specific to avnet decreased in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 when avnet returned to standard payment terms. any adverse change to our relationship with avnet or our remaining distributors could have a material impact on our business. furthermore, if a key distributor materially defaults on a contract or otherwise fails to perform, our business and financial results would suffer. in addition, we are subject to concentrations of credit risk in our trade accounts receivable, which includes accounts of our distributors. a significant reduction of effort by a distributor to sell our products or a material change in our relationship with one or more distributors may reduce our access to certain end customers and adversely affect our ability to sell our products. in addition, the financial health of our distributors and our continuing relationships with them are important to our success. unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health of some of these distributors, particularly our smaller distributors. this could result in the insolvency of certain distributors, the inability of distributors to obtain credit to finance the purchase of our products, or cause distributors to delay payment of their obligations to us and increase our credit risk exposure. our business could be harmed if the financial health of these distributors impairs their performance and we are unable to secure alternate distributors. we are dependent on independent subcontractors for most of our assembly and test services, and unavailability or disruption of these services could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. we are also dependent on subcontractors to provide semiconductor assembly, substrate, test and shipment services. any prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, any disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands. in addition, unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of these subcontractors and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us. these factors would result in reduced net revenues and could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. a number of factors, including our inventory strategy, can impact our gross margins. a number of factors, including yield, wafer pricing, product mix, market acceptance of our new products, competitive pricing dynamics, geographic and/or market segment pricing strategies cause our gross margins to fluctuate. in addition, forecasting our gross margins is difficult because a significant portion of our business is based on turns within the same quarter. our current inventory levels are higher than historical norms due to our decision to build incremental safety stock and to build ahead of a planned closure of a particular foundry process line at one of our foundry partners. in the event demand does not materialize, we may be subject to incremental obsolescence costs. in addition, future product cost reductions could have an increased impact on our inventory valuation, which would then impact our operating results. reductions in the average selling prices of our products could have a negative impact on our gross margins. the average selling prices of our products generally decline as the products mature. we seek to offset the decrease in selling prices through yield improvement, manufacturing cost reductions and increased unit sales. we also continue to develop higher value products or product features that increase, or slow the decline of, the average selling price of our products. however, there is no guarantee that our ongoing efforts will be successful or that they will keep pace with the decline in selling prices of our products, which could ultimately lead to a decline in revenues and have a negative effect on our gross margins. because of our international business and operations, we are vulnerable to the economic conditions of the countries in which we operate and currency fluctuations could have a material adverse affect on our business and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. in addition to our u.s. operations, we also have significant international operations, including foreign sales offices to support our international customers and distributors, our regional headquarters in ireland and singapore and a research and development site in india. in connection with the restructuring we announced in april 2009, our international operations grew as we relocated certain operations and administrative functions outside the u.s. sales and operations outside of the u.s. subject us to the risks associated with conducting business in foreign economic and regulatory environments. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in countries in which we do significant business or by changes in foreign currency exchange rates affecting those countries. we derive over one-half of our revenues from international sales, primarily in the asia pacific region, europe and japan. past economic weakness in these markets adversely affected revenues. while there have been signs of economic recovery in the u.s. and other markets, there can be no assurance that such improvement will continue or is sustainable. sales to all direct oems and distributors are denominated in u.s. dollars. while the recent movement of the euro and yen against the u.s. dollar had no material impact to our business, increased volatility could impact our european and japanese customers. currency instability and volatility and disruptions in the credit and capital markets may increase credit risks for some of our customers and may impair our customers ability to repay existing obligations. increased currency volatility could also positively or negatively impact our foreign-currency-denominated costs, assets and liabilities. in addition, devaluation of the u.s. dollar relative to other foreign currencies may increase the operating expenses of our foreign subsidiaries adversely affecting our results of operations. furthermore, because we are increasingly dependent on the global economy, instability in worldwide economic environments occasioned, for example, by political instability, terrorist activity or u.s. or other military actions could adversely impact economic activity and lead to a contraction of capital spending by our customers. any or all of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. 15 table of contents we are subject to the risks associated with conducting business operations outside of the u.s. which could adversely affect our business. in addition to international sales and support operations and development activities, we purchase our wafers from foreign foundries and have our commercial products assembled, packaged and tested by subcontractors located outside the u.s. all of these activities are subject to the uncertainties associated with international business operations, including tax laws and regulations, trade barriers, economic sanctions, import and export regulations, duties and tariffs and other trade restrictions, changes in trade policies, foreign governmental regulations, potential vulnerability of and reduced protection for ip, longer receivable collection periods and disruptions or delays in production or shipments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. additional factors that could adversely affect us due to our international operations include rising oil prices and increased costs of natural resources. moreover, our financial condition and results of operations could be affected in the event of political conflicts or economic crises in countries where our main wafer providers, end customers and contract manufacturers who provide assembly and test services worldwide, are located. adverse change to the circumstances or conditions of our international business operations could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and changes in credit rating and in the market values of our portfolio investments which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. our cash, short-term and long-term investments represent significant assets that may be subject to fluctuating or even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements, changes in credit rating and financial market conditions. since september 2007, the global credit markets have experienced adverse conditions that have negatively impacted the values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities. during this time, the global credit and capital markets have experienced significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system, uncertainty related to global economic conditions and concerns regarding sovereign financial stability. while general conditions in the global credit markets have improved, there is a risk that we may incur other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments should credit market conditions deteriorate or the underlying assets fail to perform as anticipated. our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair values of our debt securities is judged to be other than temporary. furthermore, we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or financial market conditions. our failure to protect and defend our intellectual property could impair our ability to compete effectively. we rely upon patent, copyright, trade secret, mask work and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property. we cannot provide assurance that such intellectual property rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, violated, circumvented or challenged. from time to time, third parties, including our competitors, have asserted against us patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to us. third parties may attempt to misappropriate our ip through electronic or other means or assert infringement claims against our indemnitees or us in the future. such assertions by third parties may result in costly litigation, indemnity claims or other legal actions, and we may not prevail in such matters or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. this could result in the loss of our ability to import and sell our products. any infringement claim, indemnification claim, or impairment or loss of use of our intellectual property could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we rely on information technology systems, and failure of these systems to function properly or unauthorized access to our systems could result in business disruption. we rely in part on various information technology (it) systems to manage our operations, including financial reporting, and we regularly evaluate these systems and make changes to improve them as necessary. consequently, we periodically implement new, or enhance existing, operational and it systems, procedures and controls. for example, in the past we simplified our supply chain and were required to make certain changes to our it systems. any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. these systems are also subject to power and telecommunication outages or other general system failures. failure of our it systems or difficulties in managing them could result in business disruption. we also may be subject to unauthorized access to our it systems through a security breach or attack. we seek to detect and investigate any security incidents and prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. our business could be significantly harmed and we could be subject to third party claims in the event of such a security breach. earthquakes and other natural disasters could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. the independent foundries upon which we rely to manufacture our products, as well as our california and singapore facilities, are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. umc foundries in taiwan and toshiba and seiko foundries in japan as well as many of our operations in california are centered in areas that have been seismically active in the recent past and some areas have been affected by other natural disasters such as typhoons. any catastrophic event in these locations will disrupt our operations, including our manufacturing activities and our insurance may not cover losses resulting from such disruptions of our operations. furthermore, this type of disruption could result in our inability to manufacture or ship products, thereby materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. for example, as a result of the march 2011 earthquake in japan, production at the seiko foundry at sakata was halted temporarily, impacting production of some of our older devices. in addition, suppliers of wafers and substrates were forced to halt production temporarily. disruption of operations at these foundries for any reason, including other natural disasters such as typhoons, tsunamis, volcano eruptions, fires or floods, as well as disruptions in access to adequate supplies of electricity, natural gas or water could cause delays in shipments of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 16 table of contents if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls, our stock price could be adversely affected. we are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (the act). our controls necessary for continued compliance with the act may not operate effectively at all times and may result in a material weakness disclosure. the identification of material weaknesses in internal control, if any, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements and could cause investors to lose confidence and our stock price to drop. we compete with others to attract and retain key personnel, and any loss of, or inability to attract, such personnel would harm us. we depend on the efforts and abilities of certain key members of management and other technical personnel. our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to retain such personnel and attract and retain other highly qualified personnel, particularly product engineers. competition for such personnel is intense and we may not be successful in hiring or retaining new or existing qualified personnel. from time to time we have effected restructurings which eliminate a number of positions. even if such personnel are not directly affected by the restructuring effort, such terminations can have a negative impact on morale and our ability to attract and hire new qualified personnel in the future. if we lose existing qualified personnel or are unable to hire new qualified personnel, as needed, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. unfavorable results of legal proceedings could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. from time to time we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business. certain claims are not yet resolved, including those that are discussed under item 1. legal proceedings, included in part ii, and additional claims may arise in the future. results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. regardless of its merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention and we may enter into material settlements to avoid these risks. should we fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against us in the same reporting period, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that would materially and adversely affect a portion of our business and might materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. our products could have defects which could result in reduced revenues and claims against us. we develop complex and evolving products that include both hardware and software. despite our testing efforts and those of our subcontractors, defects may be found in existing or new products. these defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair or replacement costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with customers. subject to certain terms and conditions, we have agreed to compensate certain customers for limited specified costs they actually incur in the event our hardware products experience epidemic failure. as a result, epidemic failure and other performance problems could result in claims against us, the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and would likely harm our business. our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. in addition, we could be subject to product liability claims. a product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly to defend. product liability risks are particularly significant with respect to aerospace, automotive and medical applications because of the risk of serious harm to users of these products. any product liability claim, whether or not determined in our favor, could result in significant expense, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and harm our business. in preparing our financial statements, we make good faith estimates and judgments that may change or turn out to be erroneous. in preparing our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s., we must make estimates and judgments in applying our most critical accounting policies. those estimates and judgments have a significant impact on the results we report in our consolidated financial statements. the most difficult estimates and subjective judgments that we make concern valuation of marketable and non-marketable securities, revenue recognition, inventories, long-lived assets including acquisition-related intangibles, goodwill, taxes and stock-based compensation. we base our estimates on historical experience, input from outside experts and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. we also have other key accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult, but which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial reporting. actual results may differ materially from these estimates. if these estimates or their related assumptions change, our operating results for the periods in which we revise our estimates or assumptions could be adversely and perhaps materially affected. 17 table of contents our failure to comply with the requirements of the international traffic and arms regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. certain xilinx space-grade fpgas and related technologies are subject to the international traffic in arms regulations (itar), which are administered by the u.s. department of state. the itar governs the export and reexport of these fpgas, the transfer of related technical data and the provision of defense services, as well as offshore production, test and assembly. we are required to maintain an internal compliance program and security infrastructure to meet itar requirements. an inability to obtain the required export licenses, or to predict when they will be granted, increases the difficulties of forecasting shipments. in addition, security or compliance program failures that could result in penalties or a loss of export privileges, as well as stringent itar licensing restrictions that may make our products less attractive to overseas customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. considerable amounts of our common shares are available for issuance under our equity incentive plans and convertible debentures, and significant issuances in the future may adversely impact the market price of our common shares. as of april 2, 2011, we had 2.00 billion authorized common shares, of which 264.6 million shares were outstanding. in addition, 49.7 million common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to our equity incentive plans and employee stock purchase plan, 42.7 million common shares were reserved for issuance upon conversion or repurchase of the convertible debentures and 19.8 million common shares were reserved for issuance upon exercise of warrants. the availability of substantial amounts of our common shares resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity incentive plans or the conversion or repurchase of convertible debentures using common shares, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. we have indebtedness that could adversely affect our financial position and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. the aggregate principal amount of our consolidated indebtedness as of april 2, 2011 was $1.29 billion (principal amount). we also may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our indebtedness may: make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including making scheduled principal and interest payments on the debentures and our other indebtedness; limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; require us to use a portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments; limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions; and require us to repatriate off-shore cash to the u.s. at unfavorable tax rates. our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. the call options and warrant transactions related to our 2.625% senior convertible debentures due june 15, 2017 (2.625% debentures) may affect the value of the debentures and our common stock. to hedge against potential dilution upon conversion of the 2.625% debentures, we purchased call options on our common stock from the hedge counterparties. we also sold warrants to the hedge counterparties, which could separately have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants of $42.91 per share. as the hedge counterparties and their respective affiliates modify hedge positions, they may enter or unwind various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchase or sell our common stock in secondary market transactions. this activity also could affect the market price of our common stock and/or debentures, which could affect the ability of the holders of the debentures to convert and the number of shares and value of the consideration that will be received by the holders of the debentures upon conversion. the conditional conversion features of the outstanding debentures, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. our outstanding debentures have conditional conversion features. in the event the conditional conversion features of the debentures are triggered, holders of such debentures will be entitled to convert the debentures at any time during specified periods at their option. if one or more holders elect to convert their debentures, we would be required to settle any converted principal through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. even if holders do not elect to convert their debentures, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the debentures as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. in addition, we could be required to increase the number of shares used in our per share calculations to reflect the potentially dilutive impact of the conversion. 18 table of contents acquisitions and strategic investments present risks, and we may not realize the goals that were contemplated at the time of a transaction. we recently acquired technology companies whose products complement our products, and in the past we have made a number of strategic investments in other technology companies. we may make similar acquisitions and strategic investments in the future. acquisitions and strategic investments present risks, including: our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management attention may be diverted by investment, acquisition, transition or integration activities; an acquisition or strategic investment may not further our business strategy as we expected, and we may not integrate an acquired company or technology as successfully as we expected; our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by claims or liabilities that we assume from an acquired company or technology or that are otherwise related to an acquisition; we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines; we may have higher than anticipated costs in continuing support and development of acquired products, in general and administrative functions that support such products; our strategic investments may not perform as expected; and we may experience unexpected changes in how we are required to account for our acquisitions and strategic investments pursuant to u.s. generally accepted accounting principles. the occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions or strategic investments. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 38 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our investment portfolio, which consists of fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $2.33 billion as of april 2, 2011. our primary aim with our investment portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal and meeting liquidity needs. our investment portfolio includes municipal bonds, floating rate notes, mortgage-backed securities, bank certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate bonds, student loan auction rate securities and u.s. and foreign government and agency securities. in accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer based upon the issuer credit rating. these securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. a hypothetical 100 basis-point (one percentage point) increase or decrease in interest rates compared to rates at april 2, 2011 and april 3, 2010 would have affected the fair value of our investment portfolio by less than $16.0 million and $10.0 million, respectively. credit market risk since september 2007, the global credit markets have experienced adverse conditions that have negatively impacted the values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities. during this time, the global credit and capital markets experienced significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system, uncertainty related to global economic conditions and concerns regarding sovereign financial stability. while general conditions in the global credit markets have improved, there is a risk that we may incur additional other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments should credit market conditions deteriorate. see note 4. financial instruments to our consolidated financial statements, included inquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our investment portfolio. our primary aim with our investment portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal and meeting liquidity needs. the portfolio includes tax-advantaged municipal bonds, tax-advantaged auction rate preferred municipal bonds, commercial paper, and u.s. treasury securities. in accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. these securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in interest rates would not materially affect the fair value of our available-for-sale securities and the impact on our investment portfolio would be less than $5 million. foreign currency risk sales to all direct oems and distributors are denominated in u.s. dollars. sales to japanese distributors were denominated in yen until july 1, 2001. our purchases of processed silicon wafers from japanese foundries were primarily denominated in u.s. dollars for all years presented. during the time our transactions with japanese distributors were denominated in yen, we entered into forward currency exchange contracts to reduce financial market risks. gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts that are designated and effective as hedges of anticipated transactions, for which a firm commitment had been attained, were deferred and included in the basis of the transaction in the same period that the underlying transactions were settled. gains and losses on any instruments not meeting the above criteria were recognized in income in the current period. effective july 1, 2001, we converted all japanese customers to u.s. dollar invoicing and therefore we expect to have minimal yen currency exposure in the future. we are expanding our ireland facility and we have two outstanding forward currency exchange contracts against the euro. the total value of these contracts is approximately u.s. $3.4 million. the two contracts expired between april and may 2002. we anticipate purchasing additional euro forward contracts to reduce exposures as construction commitments increase. our investments in several subsidiaries and in the umc securities are recorded in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. as these foreign currency denominated investments are translated at each quarter end during consolidation, fluctuations of exchange rates between the foreign currency and the u.s. dollar increase or decrease the value of those investments. if permanent changes, other than a temporary impairment, occur in exchange rates after an investment is made, the investment value will increase or decrease accordingly. these fluctuations are recorded within stockholders equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. also, as our subsidiaries maintain investments denominated in other than local currencies, exchange rate fluctuations will occur. 27 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our investment portfolio. our primary aim with our investment portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal and meeting liquidity needs. the portfolio includes tax-advantaged municipal bonds, tax-advantaged auction rate preferred municipal bonds, commercial paper and u.s. treasury securities. in accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. these securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in market interest rates compared to interest rates at march 31, 2003 and march 31, 2002 would not materially affect the fair value of our available-for-sale securities and the impact on our investment portfolio would be less than $5 million for each fiscal year. 27 table of contents foreign currency risk sales to all direct oems and distributors are denominated in u.s. dollars. gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts that are designated and effective as hedges of anticipated transactions, for which a firm commitment has been attained, are deferred and included in the basis of the transaction in the same period that the underlying transaction is settled. gains and losses on any instruments not meeting the above criteria are recognized in income or expenses in the consolidated statement of operations in the current period. we will enter into forward currency exchange contracts to hedge our overseas monthly operating expenses when deemed appropriate. our investments in several subsidiaries and in the umc securities are recorded in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. as these foreign currency denominated investments are translated at each quarter end during consolidation, fluctuations of exchange rates between the foreign currency and the u.s. dollar increase or decrease the value of those investments. these fluctuations are recorded within stockholders equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). also, as our subsidiaries maintain investments denominated in other than local currencies, exchange rate fluctuations will occur. a hypothetical 10% favorable or unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates compared to rates at march 31, 2003 and march 31, 2002 would not materially affect our financial position or results of operations. 28 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our investment portfolio. our primary aim with our investment portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal and meeting liquidity needs. the portfolio includes tax-advantaged municipal bonds, tax-advantaged auction rate securities, commercial paper, corporate bonds and u.s. treasury securities. in accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. these securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in market interest rates compared to interest rates at april 3, 2004 and march 29, 2003 would not materially affect the fair value of our available-for-sale securities and the impact on our investment portfolio would be less than $10 million for each fiscal year. foreign currency risk sales to all direct oems and distributors are denominated in u.s. dollars. gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts that are designated and effective as hedges of anticipated transactions, for which a firm commitment has been attained, are deferred and included in the basis of the transaction in the same period that the underlying transaction is settled. gains and losses on any instruments not meeting the above criteria are recognized in income or expenses in the consolidated statement of operations as they are incurred we did not execute material hedge transactions during fiscal 2002, 2003 and 2004. we will enter into forward currency exchange contracts to hedge our overseas monthly operating expenses when deemed appropriate. our investments in several subsidiaries are recorded in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. as these foreign currency denominated investments are translated at each quarter end during consolidation, fluctuations of exchange rates between the foreign currency and the u.s. dollar increase or decrease the value of those investments. these fluctuations are recorded within stockholders' equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). in addition, as our subsidiaries maintain investments denominated in other than local currencies, exchange rate fluctuations will occur. a hypothetical 10% favorable or unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates compared to rates at april 3, 2004 and march 29, 2003 would not materially affect our financial position or results of operations. our investment in umc consists of shares, the value of which is determined by the taiwan stock exchange. this value is converted from new taiwan dollars into u.s. dollars and included in our determination of the change in the fair value of our investment in umc which is accounted for under the provisions of sfas 115. the market value of our investment in umc was approximately $324 million at april 3, 2004 as compared to our adjusted cost basis of approximately $239 million. 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our investment portfolio, which consists of fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $1.4 billion at april 2, 2005. our primary aim with our investment portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal and meeting liquidity needs. the portfolio includes tax-advantaged municipal bonds, tax-advantaged auction rate securities, commercial paper, corporate bonds, government agency bonds and u.s. treasury securities. in accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. these securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in market interest rates compared to interest rates at april 2, 2005 would not materially affect the fair value of our available-for-sale securities, and the impact on our investment portfolio would have been less than $10.0 million. foreign currency exchange risk sales to all direct oems and distributors are denominated in u.s. dollars. gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts that are designated and effective as hedges of anticipated transactions, for which a firm commitment has been attained, are deferred and included in the basis of the transaction in the same period that the underlying transaction is settled. gains and losses on any instruments not meeting the above criteria are recognized in income or expenses in the consolidated statements of income as they are incurred. we did not execute material hedge transactions during fiscal 2003, 2004 or 2005. we will enter into forward currency exchange contracts to hedge our overseas operating expenses when deemed appropriate. our investments in several subsidiaries are recorded in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. as these foreign currency denominated investments are translated at each quarter end during consolidation, fluctuations of exchange rates between the foreign currency and the u.s. dollar increase or decrease the value of those investments. these fluctuations are recorded within stockholders' equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). in addition, as our subsidiaries maintain investments denominated in other than local currencies, exchange rate fluctuations will occur. a hypothetical 10% favorable or unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates compared to rates at april 2, 2005 would have been less than $10.0 million. equity security price risk our investment in marketable equity securities at april 2, 2005 consists almost entirely of our investment in umc, which consists of shares of common stock, the value of which is determined by the taiwan stock exchange. this value is converted from new taiwan dollars into u.s. dollars and included in our determination of the change in the fair value of our investment in umc which is accounted for under the provisions of sfas no. 115, "accounting for certain debt and equity securities." the market value of our investment in umc was approximately $246.1 million at april 2, 2005 as compared to our adjusted cost basis of approximately $239.1 million. the value of our investment in umc would be materially impacted if there was a significant change in the market price of the umc shares. see note 3 to our consolidated financial statements, included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskrisk factors 12 "risk factors." forward-looking statements can often be identified by the use of forward-looking words, such as "may," "will," "could," "should," "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," "continue," "plan," "intend," "project" or other similar words. we disclaim any responsibility to update any forward-looking statement provided in this document. item 1. business xilinx, inc. (xilinx or the company) designs, develops and markets complete programmable logic solutions, including advanced integrated circuits (ics), software design tools, predefined system functions delivered as intellectual property (ip) cores, design services, customer training, field engineering and technical support. the programmable logic devices (plds) include field programmable gate arrays (fpgas) and complex programmable logic devices (cplds). these devices are standard products that our customers program to perform desired logic functions. our products are designed to provide high integration and quick time-to-market for electronic equipment manufacturers in the communications, storage, server, consumer, automotive, industrial and other markets. we sell our products globally through independent domestic and foreign distributors and through direct sales to original equipment manufacturers (oems) by a network of independent sales representative firms and by a direct sales management organization. xilinx was founded and incorporated in california in february 1984. in april 1990, the company reincorporated in delaware. our corporate facilities and executive offices are located at 2100 logic drive, san jose, california 95124, and our website address is www.xilinx.com. industry overview there are three principal types of ics used in most digital electronic systems: processors, which generally are utilized for control and computing tasks; memory devices, which are used for storing program instructions and data; and logic devices, which generally are used to manage the interchange and manipulation of digital signals within a system. xilinx develops plds, a type of logic device. alternatives to plds include custom gate arrays, application specific integrated circuits (asics) and application specific standard products (assps). these devices all compete with each other since they may be utilized in many of the same types of applications within electronic systems. however, variations in pricing, product performance, reliability, power consumption, density, functionality, ease of use and time-to-market determine the degree to which the devices compete for specific applications. plds have a primary advantage over custom gate arrays, asics and assps in that they enable faster time-to-market with shorter design cycles. users of plds can program their design directly into the pld, using software, thereby allowing users to revise their designs relatively quickly with lower development costs. since plds are programmable, they typically have a larger die size resulting in higher costs per unit compared to custom gate arrays, asics and assps, which are customized with a fixed function during wafer fabrication. custom gate arrays, asics and assps, however, generally require longer fabrication lead times and higher up-front costs than plds. plds are standard components. this means that the same device type can be sold to many different users for many different applications. as a result, the development cost of plds can be spread over a large number of users. custom gate arrays, asics and assps, on the other hand, are custom chips for an individual user for use in a specific application. this involves a high up-front cost to users. technology advances are enabling pld companies to reduce costs considerably, making plds an increasingly attractive alternative to custom gate arrays, asics and assps. 3 an overview of typical pld end market applications for our products is shown in the following table: end markets sub-segments applications communications wireless 3g/4g cellular base stations wimax wireline metro area networks fttx-passive optical networks dsl modems networking multi-service provisioning platform (mspp) switches routers storage and servers storage security and encryption network attached storage servers high end servers computer peripherals office automation copiers printers consumer, automotive, industrial and other consumer video display systems, televisions-lcd/pdp digital video recorders/set top boxes/iptv smart handhelds industrial, scientific and medical factory automation medical imaging test and measurement equipment audio video broadcast cable head-end systems production switchers cameras automotive multimedia systems gps navigation systems voice recognition defense and aerospace satellite surveillance radar and sonar systems secure communications products integral to the future success of our business is the timely introduction of new products that address customer requirements and compete effectively with respect to price, functionality and performance. software design tools, ip cores, technical support and design services are also critical components that enable our customers to implement their design specifications into our plds. altogether, these products form a comprehensive programmable logic solution. a brief overview of these products follows. our product families mentioned in the table below are not all-inclusive but they comprise the majority of our revenues. they are our newest product families and are currently being designed into our customers' next generation products. some of our more mature product families have been excluded from the table although they continue to generate revenues. we operate and track our results in one operating segment for financial reporting purposes. 4 product families fpgas date introduced densities process technology voltage virtex -5 may 2006 31k to 330k logic cells 65nm 1.0v virtex-4 june 2004 12k to 200k logic cells 90nm 1.2v virtex-ii pro march 2002 3k to 99k logic cells 130nm 1.5v virtex-ii january 2001 576 to 104k logic cells 150nm 1.5v virtex-e september 1999 1.7k to 73k logic cells 180nm 1.8v spartan -3e march 2005 2.2k to 33.2k logic cells 90nm 1.2v spartan-3 april 2003 1.7k to 74.9k logic cells 90nm 1.2v spartan-iie november 2001 1.7k to 15.6k logic cells 150nm 1.8v spartan-ii january 2000 432 to 5.3k logic cells 180nm 2.5v cplds date introduced densities process technology voltage coolrunner -ii january 2002 32 to 512 macrocells 180nm 1.8v coolrunner august 1999 32 to 512 macrocells 350nm 3.3v xc9500xl september 1998 36 to 288 macrocells 350nm 3.3v virtex fpgas the virtex-5 fpga family is the latest generation virtex family and the pld industry's first product family manufactured using 65-nanometer (nm) process technology. the virtex-5 family consists of four platforms: lx for high-performance logic, lxt for high-performance logic with serial connectivity, sxt for high-performance digital signal processing (dsp) with serial connectivity and fxt for embedded processing with serial connectivity. currently, xilinx is shipping the virtex-5 lx platform, with each of the remaining platforms scheduled to roll out over the next 18 months. compared to previous 90-nanometer virtex family products, this product family offers increased performance, density and features, while reducing dynamic power consumption. the 17 device virtex-4 fpga family consists of three platforms: lx, sx and fx. virtex-4 lx fpgas are optimized for logic-intensive designs, virtex-4 sx fpgas are optimized for high-performance dsp, and virtex-4 fx fpgas are optimized for serial connectivity and embedded processing. these platforms enable customers to select the optimal mix of resources for their particular application. virtex-4 devices are produced on 90-nanometer process technology manufactured on 300 millimeter (mm) wafers. the virtex-ii pro platform fpgas are nine devices that feature ibm powerpc processor blocks, multi-gigabit transceivers and embedded memory. these fpgas are supported by xilinx software design tools. virtex-ii pro devices are manufactured on 300mm wafers using 130-nanometer copper process technology. 5 the virtex-ii pro solution enables ultra-high bandwidth system-on-a-chip (soc) designs that were previously the exclusive domain of custom asics. the virtex-ii fpga family is a complete platform for programmable logic that allows digital system designers to rapidly implement a single-chip solution. the virtex-ii fpga family consists of 11 devices, all utilizing 150-nanometer process technology on 300mm wafers. the virtex-e fpga family consists of 11 devices and is manufactured on 180-nanometer process technology. the original virtex fpga family, introduced in october 1998, includes nine 2.5-volt virtex devices that are currently in production on 220-nanometer process technology with densities ranging from 1,728 to 27,648 logic cells. spartan fpgas the spartan-3 fpga family was the first pld family shipping on 90-nanometer copper process technology. this family consists of eight devices that are programmable alternatives to asics. the spartan-3e fpga family, also shipping on 90-nanometer copper process technology, consists of five devices and is complementary to spartan-3. ranging from 2,160 to 33,192 logic cells, the spartan-3e family delivers the lowest cost per logic cell. the spartan-3e family is optimized for gate centric designs while the spartan-3 family is optimized for input/output (i/o) centric designs. both spartan-3 and spartan-3e families address cost-sensitive, high-volume applications. the spartan-iie family consists of seven devices and is manufactured on 150-nanometer process technology. the spartan-ii family has seven devices shipping on 180-nanometer process technology. the spartan-xl family consists of five devices with up to 1,862 logic cells on 250-nanometer process technology operating at 3.3 volts. the original spartan family was introduced in 1998. it has five devices shipping with densities up to 1,862 logic cells on 350-nanometer process technology operating at 3.5 volts. easypath fpgas easypath fpgas use the same production masks and fabrication process as standard fpgas and are tested to a specific customer application to improve yield and lower costs. as a result, easypath fpgas provide customers with significant cost reduction when compared to the standard fpga devices without the conversion risk, conversion engineering effort or the additional time required to move to an asic. easypath fpgas are available for the higher density devices of the virtex-ii and virtex-ii pro families. easypath fpgas will also be available for the higher densities of the virtex-4 and virtex-5 families. customers purchasing easypath fpgas must meet certain minimum order requirements and pay a custom test generation charge. cplds the xc9500, xc9500xl and xc9500xv product families offer low cost, high speed and in-system programmability for 5.0-volt, 3.3-volt and 2.5-volt systems, respectively. the coolrunner family lines were the first cpld products to combine very low power consumption with high density and high i/o counts in a single device. this family has six devices shipping on 350-nanometer process technology. the coolrunner-ii family is a next-generation family with six devices shipping on 180-nanometer process technology. coolrunner-ii cplds combine the advantages of ultra low power consumption with the benefits of high performance and low cost. while coolrunner-ii is suitable for a wide variety of end markets and applications, the ultra low power consumption of these devices make them ideal for use in the growing portable consumer electronics marketplace. 6 support products software solutions we offer complete software solutions that enable customers to implement their design specifications into our plds. these software design tools combine a powerful technology with a flexible, easy-to-use graphical interface to help achieve the best possible designs within each customer's project schedule, regardless of the designer's experience level. our software design tools operate on personal computers running microsoft windows 2000, xp and linux operating systems, and on workstations from sun microsystems running solaris. the xilinx ise (integrated software environment) family fits a wide range of customer needs. ise also integrates with a wide range of third-party electronic design automation (eda) software offerings and point-tool solutions to deliver the most flexible design environment available. all xilinx fpga and cpld device families are supported by ise, including the newest virtex-5, spartan-3e and coolrunner-ii device families. ip cores we also offer ip cores for commonly used complex functions. logicore products, which are developed and supported by xilinx, together with alliancecore ip cores from third-party participants, enable customers to shorten development time, reduce design risk and obtain superior performance for their designs. logicore products include solutions for designers building products in the areas of dsp, network line cards and backplanes, pci express and advanced switching, rapidio, ethernet, and embedded processing with both powerpc processor and microblaze , a 32-bit soft processor core. xilinx also offers a core generator system which allows customers to implement various ip cores into our plds with predictable and repeatable performance and a system generator for dsp tool which allows system architects to quickly model and implement dsp functions, and features an interface to third-party system level dsp design tools. configuration solutions through our configuration solutions group, xilinx offers a range of one-time programmable and in-system programmable storage devices to configure xilinx fpgas. the platformflash prom (programmable read only memory) family is our newest offering. this family ranges in density from 1 to 32 megabits and offers full in-system programmability at the lowest cost per megabit of any xilinx configuration solution. older solutions include our xc1700 family (one-time programmable with density up to 16 megabits), and the xc1800 family (in-system programmable with density up to 4 megabits). our prom solutions support all of our fpga devices. global services to extend our customers' technical capabilities and shorten their design times, we offer a portfolio of global services, which includes education, design and support services. in addition, we offer a personalized online technical resource, www.mysupport.xilinx.com. please see information under the caption "results of operations net revenues" in item 7. "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" for information about our revenues from our classes of products. research and development our research and development activities are primarily directed towards the design of new ics, the development of new software design automation tools for hardware and embedded software, the design of ip cores of logic and the adoption of advanced semiconductor manufacturing processes for ongoing cost reductions, performance and signal integrity improvements and lowering power consumption. as a result of our research and development efforts, we have introduced a number of new products during the past years including the virtex-5 and virtex-4 series of fpgas, and the spartan-3 and spartan-3e fpga series. 7 additionally, we have made major enhancements to our ip core offerings and introduced new versions of our ise software. to support embedded processing and dsp design on our platform fpga devices, the platform studio tool suite and system generator for dsp have been further enhanced. we extended our collaboration with our foundry suppliers in the development of 90- and 65-nanometer complementary metal oxide semiconductor (cmos) manufacturing technology and we are the first company in the pld industry to ship 65-nanometer devices. our research and development challenge is to continue to develop new products that create cost-effective solutions for customers. in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, our research and development expenses were $326.1 million, $307.4 million and $247.6 million, respectively. we believe technical leadership and innovation are essential to our future success and we are committed to continuing a significant level of research and development effort. however, there can be no assurance that any of our research and development efforts will be successful, timely or cost-effective. acquisition in january 2006, xilinx completed the acquisition of accelchip, inc. (accelchip), a privately-held company that provides matlab r synthesis software tools for designing dsp systems. the total purchase price for accelchip was $19.6 million in cash, including $436 thousand of acquisition-related costs. sales and distribution we sell our products to oems and to electronic components distributors who resell these products to oems or subcontract manufacturers. we use a dedicated global sales and marketing organization as well as independent sales representatives to generate sales. in general, we focus our direct demand creation efforts on a limited number of key accounts with independent sales representatives often addressing those customers in defined territories. distributors create demand within the balance of our customer base. distributors also provide vendor managed inventory, value added services and logistics for a wide range of our oem customers. whether xilinx, the independent sales representative, or the distributor identifies the sale opportunity, a local distributor will process and fulfill the majority of all customer orders. in such situations, distributors are the legal sellers of the products and as such they bear all risks generally related to the sale of commercial goods, such as credit loss, inventory shrinkage and theft, as well as foreign currency fluctuations. in accordance with our distribution agreements and industry practice, we have granted the distributors the contractual right to return certain amounts of unsold product on a periodic basis and also receive price concessions for unsold product in the case of a subsequent decrease in list prices. revenue recognition on shipments to distributors worldwide is deferred until the products are sold to the distributor's end customer. avnet, inc. (avnet) distributes the substantial majority of our products worldwide. no end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues in fiscal 2006, 2005 or 2004. on april 26, 2005, two of the company's distributors, avnet and the memec group (memec), announced that they had reached a definitive agreement for avnet to acquire memec. on july 5, 2005, avnet announced that it had completed its acquisition of memec. as of april 1, 2006 and april 2, 2005, the combined avnet/memec entity accounted for 78% and 88% of the company's total accounts receivable, respectively. had this acquisition been completed for all periods presented, resale of product through this combined entity would have accounted for 70%, 76% and 78% of the company's worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. we also use other regional distributors throughout the world. from time to time, we may add or terminate distributors in specific geographies, as we deem appropriate given the level of business and their performance. we believe distributors provide a cost-effective means of reaching a broad range of customers while providing efficient logistics services. since plds are standard products, they do not present many of the inventory risks to distributors posed by custom gate arrays, and they simplify the requirements for distributor technical support. see note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. "financial statements and supplementary data," for information about concentrations 8 of credit risk. please also see note 12 to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. "financial statements and supplementary data," for financial information about our revenues from external customers and domestic and international operations. backlog as of april 1, 2006, our backlog from oem customers and backlog from end customers reported by our distributors scheduled for delivery within the next three months was $223.0 million. as of april 2, 2005, our backlog from oem customers and backlog from end customers reported by our distributors scheduled for delivery within the next three months was $157.0 million. orders from end customers to our distributors are subject to changes in delivery schedules or to cancellation without significant penalty. as a result, backlogs from both oem customers and end customers reported by our distributors as of any particular period may not be a reliable indicator of revenue for any future period. wafer fabrication as a fabless semiconductor company, we do not manufacture wafers used for our products. rather, we purchase wafers from multiple foundries including united microelectronics corporation (umc), toshiba corporation (toshiba) and seiko epson corporation (seiko). currently, umc manufactures the substantial majority of our wafers. precise terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by our periodic negotiations with the wafer foundries. our strategy is to focus our resources on market development and creating new ics and software design tools rather than on wafer fabrication. we continuously evaluate opportunities to enhance foundry relationships and/or obtain additional capacity from our main suppliers as well as other suppliers of leading-edge process technologies. as a result, we have entered into agreements with umc, toshiba and seiko as discussed below. in september 1995, we entered into a joint venture with umc and other parties to construct a wafer fabrication facility in taiwan, known as united silicon inc. (usic) (see note 3 to our consolidated financial statements in item 8. "financial statements and supplementary data"). in january 2000, as a result of the merger of usic into umc, our equity position in usic was converted into shares of umc, which are publicly traded on the taiwan stock exchange. we retain monthly guaranteed wafer capacity rights in umc as long as we retain a certain percentage of our original umc shares. in fiscal 1997, we signed a wafer purchasing agreement with seiko that was amended in fiscal 1998, 1999 and 2000. seiko manufactures wafers for our older, more mature product lines. in october 2004, the company entered into an advanced purchase agreement with toshiba under which the company would pay toshiba a total of $100.0 million in two equal installments for advance payment of silicon wafers produced under the agreement. the entire advance payment of $100.0 million is being reduced by wafer purchases from toshiba and any unused portion is fully refundable in december 2006 if toshiba is not able to maintain ongoing production and quality criteria or if future wafer purchases do not exceed the total amount advanced. the balance of the advance payment remaining was $72.3 million at april 1, 2006. sort, assembly and test wafers purchased are sorted by the foundry, independent sort subcontractors, or by xilinx. sorted wafers are assembled by subcontractors. during the assembly process, the wafers are separated into individual die, which are then assembled into various package types. following assembly, the packaged units are tested by xilinx personnel at our san jose, california, dublin, ireland or singapore facilities or by independent test subcontractors. we purchase most of our assembly and some of our testing services from siliconware precision industries ltd. (spil) in taiwan and from amkor technology, inc. in korea and the philippines. 9 quality certification xilinx achieved iso 9001 quality certification in 1995 in san jose, california, in 2001 in dublin, ireland and in 2004 in longmont, colorado, the main site for our software development efforts. in addition, xilinx achieved iso 14001, tl 9000 and ts 16949 environmental and quality certifications in the san jose and dublin locations and tl 9000 and ts 16949 quality certifications in singapore. patents and licenses while our various proprietary intellectual property rights are important to our success, we believe our business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. as of april 1, 2006, we held 1,292 issued united states patents, which vary in duration, relating to our products. we maintain an active program of filing for additional patents in the areas of, but not limited to, software, ic architecture, system design, testing methodologies and other technologies relating to plds. we intend to vigorously protect our intellectual property. we believe that failure to enforce our intellectual property rights (for example, patents, copyrights and trademarks) or to effectively protect our trade secrets could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in the future, we may incur litigation expenses to enforce our intellectual property rights against third parties. however, any such litigation may not be successful. we have acquired various software licenses that permit us to grant sublicenses to our customers for certain third party software programs licensed with our software design tools. in addition, we have licensed certain software for internal use in product design. we are also licensed under certain third party patents and have provided some third parties licenses under company patents. employees as of april 1, 2006, we had 3,295 employees compared to 3,050 at the end of the prior fiscal year. none of our employees are represented by a labor union. we have not experienced any work stoppages and believe we maintain good employee relations. executive officers of the registrant certain information regarding each of xilinx's executive officers is set forth below: name age position willem p. roelandts 61 president, chief executive officer and chairman of the board of directors kris chellam 55 senior vice president, corporate and enterprise services thomas r. lavelle 56 vice president, general counsel and secretary patrick w. little 43 vice president, worldwide sales and services jon a. olson 52 vice president, finance and chief financial officer boon c. ooi 52 vice president, worldwide operations richard w. sevcik 58 executive vice president and general manager and a director sandeep s. vij 40 vice president, worldwide marketing there are no family relationships among the executive officers of the company or the board of directors. willem p. "wim" roelandts joined the company in january 1996 as chief executive officer and a member of the company's board of directors. in april 1996, mr. roelandts was appointed to the additional position of president of the company and assumed the role of chairman of the board of directors on august 7, 2003 upon the retirement of bernard v. vonderschmitt. prior to joining the company, he served at hewlett-packard company as senior vice president and general manager of computer systems organizations from august 1992 through january 1996 and as vice president and general manager of the network systems group from december 1990 through august 1992. mr. roelandts also serves as a director of applied materials, inc. 10 kris chellam joined the company in july 1998 as senior vice president, finance and chief financial officer. mr. chellam was appointed senior vice president, corporate and enterprise services in june 2005. he has overall responsibility for business and strategy development, information technology, real estate and xilinx's asia pacific regional headquarters in singapore. prior to joining the company, he served at atmel corporation as senior vice president and general manager of a product group from march to july 1998 and as vice president, finance and administration, and chief financial officer from september 1991 through march 1998. mr. chellam also serves as a director of at road inc. thomas r. lavelle joined the company in august 1999 as vice president, general counsel and secretary. prior to joining the company, mr. lavelle spent more than 15 years at intel corporation serving in a variety of positions, including group counsel for a number of intel organizations. from 1992 to 1993, mr. lavelle served as vice president and general counsel for next inc. patrick w. little joined the company in march 2003 as vice president and general manager and was promoted in march 2005 to vice president of worldwide sales. mr. little was further promoted to his current position of vice president, worldwide sales and services in december 2005. from september 1999 to march 2003, he served as president and ceo of believe, inc. mr. little served as executive vice president of sales and marketing at rendition, inc. from march 1998 to september 1999. he was general manager of the audio business division of diamond multimedia systems, inc., and held various senior management positions at trident microsystems, inc. and opti, inc., from 1992 to 1998. jon a. olson joined the company in june 2005 as vice president, finance and chief financial officer. he has overall responsibility for worldwide finance, tax, treasury and investor relations and administrative responsibility for internal audit. prior to joining the company, mr. olson spent more than 25 years at intel corporation serving in a variety of positions, including vice president, finance and enterprise services, director of finance. boon c. ooi joined the company in november 2003 as vice president, worldwide operations. he has overall responsibility for worldwide manufacturing, testing and package development for xilinx programmable logic devices. mr. ooi also oversees strategic management of the company's semiconductor foundry and packaging suppliers. prior to joining the company, mr. ooi spent more than 25 years at intel corporation serving in a variety of positions, including vice president of the corporate technology group and director of operations. richard w. sevcik joined the company in april 1997 as senior vice president and general manager. he was elected to the board of directors of the company in 2000. mr. sevcik assumed his current position of executive vice president and general manager in january 2004. prior to joining the company, mr. sevcik worked at hewlett-packard company for ten years where, from 1994 through 1996, he served as group general manager of its systems technology group and oversaw five divisions involved with product development for servers, workstations, operating systems, microprocessors, networking and security. in 1995, he was named vice president at hewlett-packard. mr. sevcik resigned from the board of directors of the company effective april 13, 2006 and retired from the company effective may 15, 2006. sandeep s. vij joined the company in april 1996 as director, fpga marketing and was promoted to vice president, marketing and general manager in october 1996. mr. vij assumed his current position of vice president, worldwide marketing in july 2001. from 1990 until april 1996, he served at altera corporation in a variety of marketing roles. mr. vij also serves as a director of coherent inc. additional information our internet address is www.xilinx.com . we make available, via a link through our investor relations website located at www.investor.xilinx.com , access to our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission (sec). all such filings on our investor relations website are available free of charge. further, a copy of this annual report on form 10-k is located at the sec's public reference room at 450 fifth street, nw, washington, d.c. 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room can be obtained by calling the sec at 11 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings at http://www.sec.gov . the content on any website referred to in this filing is not incorporated by reference into this filing unless expressly noted otherwise. additional information required by this item 1. is incorporated by reference to the section captioned "net revenues net revenues by geography" in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and to note 12 to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. "financial statements and supplementary data." item 1a. risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the company faces. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or that the company's management currently deems immaterial also may impair its business operations. if any of the risks described below were to occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. the semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological change, intense competition and cyclical market patterns which contribute to create factors that may affect our future operating results including: market demand increased dependence on turns orders (orders received and shipped within the same fiscal quarter); limited visibility of demand for products, especially new products; reduced capital spending by our customers; weaker demand for our products or those of our customers due to a prolonged period of economic uncertainty; excess inventory at xilinx and within the supply chain including overbuilding of oem products; additional excess and obsolete inventories and corresponding write-downs due to a significant deterioration in demand; inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of a given product in a timely manner; inability to obtain manufacturing or test and assembly capacity in sufficient volume; inability to predict the success of our customers' products in their markets; an unexpected increase in demand resulting in longer lead times that causes delays in customer production schedules; dependence on the health of the end markets and customers we serve; competitive environment price and product competition, which can change rapidly due to technological innovation; major customers converting to asic or assp designs from xilinx plds; faster than normal erosion of average selling prices; timely introduction of new products and ability to manufacture in sufficient quantities at introduction; technology lower gross margins due to product mix shifts and reduced manufacturing efficiency; failure to retain or attract specialized technical/management personnel; timely introduction of advanced manufacturing technologies; ability to safeguard the company's products from competitors by means of patents and other intellectual property protections; impact of new technologies which result in rapid escalation of demand for some products in the face of equally steep declines in demand for others; ability to successfully manage multiple foundry relationships; 12 other changes in accounting pronouncements; dependence on distributors to generate sales and process customer orders; disruption in sales generation, order processing and logistics if a distributor materially defaults on a contract; impact of changes to current export/import laws and regulations; volatility of the securities market, particularly as it relates to the technology sector and our investment in umc; unexpected product quality issues; global events impacting the world economy or specific regions of the world; increase in the cost of natural resources; parts shortages at our suppliers; failure of information systems impacting financial reporting; catastrophes that impact the ability of our supply chain to operate or deliver product; and higher costs associated with multiple foundry relationships. we attempt to identify changes in market conditions as soon as possible; however, the dynamics of the market make prediction of and timely reaction to such events difficult. due to these and other factors, our past results, including those described in this report, are much less reliable predictors of the future than with companies in many older, more stable and mature industries. based on the factors noted herein, we may experience substantial fluctuations in future operating results. our results of operations are impacted by global economic and political conditions, dependence on new products, dependence on independent manufacturers and subcontractors, competition, intellectual property, potential new accounting pronouncements, sarbanes-oxley section 404 compliance and litigation, each of which is discussed in greater detail below. potential effect of global economic and political conditions sales and operations outside of the united states subject us to the risks associated with conducting business in foreign economic and regulatory environments. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in countries in which we do significant business and by changes in foreign currency exchange rates affecting those countries. for example, we have sales and operations in the asia pacific region, japan and europe. past economic weakness in these markets adversely affected revenues, and such conditions may occur in the future. sales to all direct oems and distributors are denominated in u.s. dollars. while the recent movement of the euro and yen against the u.s. dollar had no material impact to our business, increased volatility could impact our european and japanese customers. currency instability may increase credit risks for some of our customers and may impair our customers' ability to repay existing obligations. increased currency volatility could also positively or negatively impact our foreign currency denominated costs, assets and liabilities. any or all of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. our financial condition and results of operations are increasingly dependent on the global economy. any instability in worldwide economic environments occasioned for example, by political instability or terrorist activity could impact economic activity and could lead to a contraction of capital spending by our customers. additional risks to us include u.s. military actions, changes in u.s. government spending on military and defense activities impacting defense-associated sales, economic sanctions imposed by the u.s. government, government regulation of exports, imposition of tariffs and other potential trade barriers, reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries and generally longer receivable collection periods. moreover, our financial condition and results of operations could be affected in the event of political conflicts or economic crises in countries where our main wafer providers, end customers and contract manufacturers who provide assembly and test services worldwide, are located. 13 dependence on new products our success depends in large part on our ability to develop and introduce new products that address customer requirements and compete effectively on the basis of price, density, functionality, power consumption and performance. the success of new product introductions is dependent upon several factors, including: timely completion of new product designs; ability to generate new design opportunities (design wins); availability of specialized field application engineering resources supporting demand creation and customer adoption of new products; ability to utilize advanced manufacturing process technologies to circuit geometries on 65 nanometers and smaller; achieving acceptable yields; ability to obtain adequate production capacity from our wafer foundries and assembly subcontractors; ability to obtain advanced packaging; availability of supporting software design tools; utilization of predefined ip cores of logic; industry acceptance; and successful deployment of electronic systems by our customers. our product development efforts may not be successful, our new products may not achieve industry acceptance and we may not achieve the necessary volume of production that would lead to further per unit cost reductions. revenues relating to our mature products are expected to decline in the future, which is normal for our product life cycles. as a result, we will be increasingly dependent on revenues derived from design wins for our newer products as well as anticipated cost reductions in the manufacture of our current products. we rely primarily on obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture of existing products and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and other price/performance factors that enable us to increase revenues while maintaining consistent margins. to the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner, or to the extent that our products do not achieve market acceptance at prices with higher margins, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. dependence on independent manufacturers and subcontractors during fiscal 2006, nearly all of our wafers were manufactured in taiwan by umc and in japan by toshiba and seiko. terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations between xilinx and these wafer foundries, which usually result in short-term agreements. we are dependent on these foundries, especially umc, which supplies the substantial majority of our wafers. we rely on umc to produce wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, which include transitioning to advanced manufacturing process technologies and increased wafer sizes, producing wafers at acceptable yields, and delivering them in a timely manner. we cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our wafers will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies. in addition, greater demand for wafers produced by the foundries without an offsetting increase in foundry capacity, raises the likelihood of potential wafer price increases. umc's foundries in taiwan and toshiba's and seiko's foundries in japan as well as many of our operations in california are centered in areas that have been seismically active in the recent past. should there be a major earthquake in our suppliers' or our operating locations in the future, our operations, including our manufacturing activities, may be disrupted. this type of disruption could result in our inability to ship products in a timely manner, thereby materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, disruption of operations at these foundries for any reason, including other natural disasters such as fires or floods, as well as disruptions in access to adequate supplies of electricity, natural gas or water could cause delays in shipments of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 14 we are also dependent on subcontractors to provide semiconductor assembly, test and shipment services. any prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, unavailability of or disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demand reducing net sales and negatively impacting our financial condition and results of operations. competition our plds compete in the logic ic industry, an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion. we expect increased competition from our primary pld competitors, altera corporation (altera) and lattice semiconductor corporation, from the asic market, which has been ongoing since the inception of fpgas, and from new companies that may enter the traditional programmable logic market segment. we believe that important competitive factors in the logic industry include: product pricing; time-to-market; product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density; field upgradability; adaptability of products to specific applications; ease of use and functionality of software design tools; functionality of predefined ip cores of logic; inventory management; access to leading-edge process technology; and ability to provide timely customer service and support. our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high-volume, low-cost and low-power applications as well as high-performance, high-density applications. in addition, we anticipate continued price reductions proportionate with our ability to lower the cost for established products. however, we may not be successful in achieving these strategies. other competitors include manufacturers of: high-density programmable logic products characterized by fpga-type architectures; high-volume and low-cost fpgas as programmable replacements for asics and assps; asics and assps with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; high-speed, low-density cplds; high-performance dsp devices; products with embedded processors; products with embedded multi-gigabit transceivers; and other new or emerging programmable logic products. several companies have introduced products that compete with ours or have announced their intention to enter the pld segment. to the extent that our efforts to compete are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the benefits of programmable logic have attracted a number of competitors to the market segment. we recognize that different applications require different programmable technologies, and we are developing architectures, processes and products to meet these varying customer needs. recognizing the increasing importance of standard software solutions, we have developed common software design tools that support the full range of our ic products. we believe that automation and ease of design are significant competitive factors in the pld market segment. we could also face competition from our licensees. we have granted limited rights to other companies with respect to certain of our older technology which may enable them to manufacture and market products which may be competitive with some of our older products. 15 in conjunction with xilinx's settlement of the patent litigation with altera in july 2001, both companies entered into a royalty-free patent cross license agreement for many of each company's patents through july 2006. intellectual property we rely upon patent, copyright, trade secret, mask work and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property. we cannot provide assurance that such intellectual property rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. from time to time, third parties, including our competitors, have asserted patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to us. third parties may assert infringement claims against us in the future; assertions by third parties may result in costly litigation and we may not prevail in such litigation or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. any infringement claim or other litigation against us or by us could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. potential effect of new accounting pronouncements there may be potential new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings, which may have an impact on our future financial condition and results of operations. in december 2004, the financial accounting standards board (fasb) issued statement of financial accounting standards (sfas) no. 123(r), "share-based payment." (sfas 123(r)). sfas 123(r) eliminates our ability to account for share-based compensation transactions using accounting principles board (apb) opinion no. 25, "accounting for stock issued to employees," (apb 25) and will instead require companies to recognize compensation expense, using a fair-value based method, for costs related to share-based payments including stock options and employee stock purchase plans. the company will implement the standard for the fiscal year beginning april 2, 2006. the adoption of sfas 123(r) will have a material impact on our results of operations. see note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. "financial statements and supplementary data," for additional information about recent accounting pronouncements. sarbanes-oxley section 404 compliance we are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (the act). our controls necessary for continued compliance with the act may not operate effectively at all times and may result in a material weakness disclosure. the identification of material weaknesses in internal control, if any, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements. further, our internal control effectiveness may be impacted if we are unable to retain sufficient skilled finance and accounting personnel, especially in light of the increased demand for such personnel among publicly traded companies. litigation we are currently involved in several legal matters. see item 3. "legal proceedings." quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 35 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our investment portfolio, which consists of fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $1.5 billion at april 1, 2006. our primary aim with our investment portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal and meeting liquidity needs. the portfolio includes tax-advantaged municipal bonds, taxable and tax-advantaged auction rate securities, bank certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate bonds, government agency bonds and u.s. treasury securities. in accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. these securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in market interest rates compared to interest rates at april 1, 2006 would not materially affect the fair value of our available-for-sale securities and the impact on our investment portfolio would have been less than $10.0 million. foreign currency exchange risk sales to all direct oems and distributors are denominated in u.s. dollars. gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts that are designated and effective as hedges of anticipated transactions, for which a firm commitment has been attained, are deferred and included in the basis of the transaction in the same period that the underlying transaction is settled. gains and losses on any instruments not meeting the above criteria are recognized in income or expenses in the consolidated statements of income as they are incurred. we will enter into forward currency exchange contracts to hedge our overseas operating expenses and other liabilities when deemed appropriate. as of april 1, 2006, we had approximately u.s. $12.8 million of outstanding forward currency exchange contracts against the euro, approximately u.s. $4.1 million of outstanding forward currency exchange contracts against the japanese yen and approximately u.s. $15.9 million of outstanding forward currency exchange contracts against the singapore dollar. the net unrealized gain or loss which approximates the fair market value of the above contracts was immaterial at april 1, 2006. the contracts expire at various dates between april 2006 and june 2007. our investments in several wholly-owned subsidiaries are recorded in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. as these foreign currency denominated investments are translated at each quarter end during consolidation, fluctuations of exchange rates between the foreign currency and the u.s. dollar increase or decrease the value of those investments. these fluctuations are recorded within stockholders' equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. in addition, as our subsidiaries maintain investments denominated in other than local currencies, exchange rate fluctuations will occur. a hypothetical 10% favorable or unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates compared to rates at april 1, 2006 would have affected the value of our investments in foreign currency denominated subsidiaries by less than $12.0 million. equity security price risk our investment in marketable equity securities at april 1, 2006 consists almost entirely of our investment in umc, which consists of shares of common stock, the value of which is determined by the closing price on the taiwan stock exchange as of the balance sheet date. this value is converted from new taiwan dollars into u.s. dollars and included in our determination of the change in the fair value of our investment in umc which is accounted for under the provisions of sfas no. 115, "accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities" (sfas 115). the market value of our investment in umc was approximately $276.5 million at april 1, 2006 as compared to our adjusted cost basis of approximately $239.0 million. the value of our investment in umc would be materially impacted if there was a significant change in the market price of the umc shares and/or new taiwan dollars. excluding the effect of any changes in the new taiwan dollar, a hypothetical 10% favorable or unfavorable change in umc's stock price compared to the stock price at april 1, 2006 would have affected the value of our investment in umc by less than $28.0 million. see note 3 to our consolidated financial statements, included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskrisk factors 13 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 38risk factors 11 risk factors. forward-looking statements can often be identified by the use of forward-looking words, such as may, will, could, should, expect, believe, anticipate, estimate, continue, plan, intend, project or other similar words. we disclaim any responsibility to update any forward-looking statement provided in this document. item 1. business xilinx, inc. (xilinx or the company) designs, develops and markets complete programmable logic solutions, including advanced integrated circuits (ics), software design tools, predefined system functions delivered as intellectual property (ip) cores, design services, customer training, field engineering and technical support. the programmable logic devices (plds) include field programmable gate arrays (fpgas) and complex programmable logic devices (cplds). these devices are standard products that our customers program to perform desired logic functions. our products are designed to provide high integration and quick time-to-market for electronic equipment manufacturers in end markets such as communications, industrial, consumer, automotive and data processing. we sell our products globally through independent domestic and foreign distributors, and through direct sales to original equipment manufacturers (oems) by a network of independent sales representative firms and by a direct sales management organization. xilinx was founded and incorporated in california in february 1984. in april 1990, the company reincorporated in delaware. our corporate facilities and executive offices are located at 2100 logic drive, san jose, california 95124, and our website address is www.xilinx.com . industry overview there are three principal types of ics used in most digital electronic systems: processors, which generally are utilized for control and computing tasks; memory devices, which are used for storing program instructions and data; and logic devices, which generally are used to manage the interchange and manipulation of digital signals within a system. xilinx develops plds, a type of logic device. alternatives to plds include custom gate arrays, application specific integrated circuits (asics) and application specific standard products (assps). these devices all compete with each other since they may be utilized in many of the same types of applications within electronic systems. however, variations in pricing, product performance, reliability, power consumption, density, functionality, ease of use and time-to-market determine the degree to which the devices compete for specific applications. plds have a primary advantage over custom gate arrays, asics and assps in that they enable faster time-to-market with shorter design cycles. users of plds can program their design directly into the pld, using software, thereby allowing users to revise their designs relatively quickly with lower development costs. since plds are programmable, they typically have a larger die size resulting in higher costs per unit compared to custom gate arrays, asics and assps, which are customized with a fixed function during wafer fabrication. custom gate arrays, asics and assps, however, generally require longer fabrication lead times and higher up-front costs than plds. plds are standard components. this means that the same device type can be sold to many different users for many different applications. as a result, the development cost of plds can be spread over a large number of users. custom gate arrays, asics and assps, on the other hand, are custom chips for an individual user for use in a specific application. this involves a high up-front cost to users. technology advances are enabling pld companies to reduce costs considerably, making plds an increasingly attractive alternative to custom gate arrays, asics and assps. 3 an overview of typical pld end market applications for our products is shown in the following table: end markets sub-segments applications communications wireless l 3g/4g cellular base stations l wimax wireline l metro area networks l fttx-passive optical networks l dsl modems networking l multi-service provisioning platform (mspp) l switches l routers consumer, automotive, consumer l video display systems, industrial and other lcd/pdp televisions l digital video recorders/set top boxes/ iptv l smart handhelds industrial, scientific and l factory automation medical l medical imaging l test and measurement equipment audio, video and broadcast l cable head-end systems l production switchers l cameras automotive l multimedia systems l gps navigation systems l voice recognition defense and aerospace l satellite surveillance l radar and sonar systems l secure communications data processing storage l security and encryption l network attached storage servers l high end servers l computer peripherals office automation l copiers l printers products integral to the future success of our business is the timely introduction of new products that address customer requirements and compete effectively with respect to price, functionality and performance. software design tools, ip cores, technical support and design services are also critical components that enable our customers to implement their design specifications into our plds. altogether, these products form a comprehensive programmable logic solution. a brief overview of these products follows. our product families mentioned in the table below are not all-inclusive but they comprise the majority of our revenues. they are our newest product families and are currently being designed into our customers next generation products. some of our more mature product families have been excluded from the table although they continue to generate revenues. we operate and track our results in one operating segment for financial reporting purposes. 4 product families date process fpgas introduced densities technology voltage virtex -5 may 2006 31k to 330k 65nm 1.0v logic cells virtex-4 june 2004 12k to 200k 90nm 1.2v logic cells virtex-ii pro march 2002 3k to 99k 130nm 1.5v logic cells virtex-ii january 2001 576 to 104k 150nm 1.5v logic cells virtex-e september 1999 1.7k to 73k 180nm 1.8v logic cells spartan -3an february 2007 1.5k to 25.3k 90nm 1.2v logic cells spartan-3a december 2006 1.5k to 53.1k 90nm 1.2v logic cells spartan-3e march 2005 2.2k to 33.2k 90nm 1.2v logic cells spartan-3 april 2003 1.7k to 74.9k 90nm 1.2v logic cells spartan-iie november 2001 1.7k to 15.6k 150nm 1.8v logic cells spartan-ii january 2000 432 to 5.3k 180nm 2.5v logic cells date process cplds introduced densities technology voltage coolrunner -ii january 2002 32 to 512 180nm 1.8v macrocells coolrunner august 1999 32 to 512 350nm 3.3v macrocells xc9500xl september 1998 36 to 288 350nm 3.3v macrocells virtex fpgas the virtex-5 fpga family consists of 15 devices and is the latest generation virtex family and the pld industry first product family manufactured using 65-nanometer (nm) process technology. the virtex-5 family consists of four platforms: lx for logic-intensive designs, lxt for high-performance logic with serial connectivity, sxt for high-performance digital signal processing (dsp) with serial connectivity and fxt for embedded processing with serial connectivity. currently, xilinx is shipping devices from the virtex-5 lx platform, lxt platform and sxt platform. compared to previous 90-nm virtex family products, this product family offers increased performance, density and features, while reducing dynamic power consumption. the 17 device virtex-4 fpga family consists of three platforms: lx, sx and fx. virtex-4 lx fpgas are optimized for logic-intensive designs, virtex-4 sx fpgas are optimized for high-performance dsp, and virtex-4 fx fpgas are optimized for embedded processing with serial connectivity. these platforms enable customers to select the optimal mix of resources for their particular application. virtex-4 devices are produced on 90-nm process technology. prior generation virtex families include virtex-ii pro, virtex-ii, virtex-e and the original virtex family. 5 spartan fpgas the spartan-3 generation fpgas were the pld industry first 90-nm fpgas and were developed as a programmable asic alternative for new applications in high growth end markets such as consumer, automotive and low cost networking. the spartan-3 family is comprised of different platforms including the original spartan 3 family, the spartan-3e family, the spartan-3a family, the spartan-3an family and the spartan-3a dsp family. the spartan-3e family consists of five devices and is optimized to deliver the lowest cost per logic cell. the spartan-3a family consists of seven devices and is optimized to deliver the lowest cost per input/output (i/o). the spartan-3an family is a nonvolatile fpga family consisting of five devices that are optimized for cost sensitive applications where security and board space are customer priorities. the spartan-3a dsp family targets cost-sensitive, high-performance signal processing applications. prior generation spartan families manufactured on older process geometries include spartan-iie, spartan-ii, spartan xl and the original spartan family. easypath fpgas easypath fpgas use the same production masks and fabrication process as standard fpgas and are tested to a specific customer application to improve yield and lower costs. as a result, easypath fpgas provide customers with significant cost reduction when compared to the standard fpga devices without the conversion risk, conversion engineering effort or the additional time required to move to an asic. easypath fpgas are available for the higher density devices of the virtex-ii and virtex-ii pro families. easypath fpgas will also be available for the higher densities of the virtex-4 and virtex-5 families. customers purchasing easypath fpgas must meet certain minimum order requirements and pay a custom test generation charge. cplds cplds operate on the low end of the programmable logic density spectrum. cplds are single chip, nonvolatile solutions characterized by instant-on and universal interconnect. the coolrunner-ii family is xilinx latest generation cpld family with six devices shipping. coolrunner-ii cplds combine the advantages of ultra low power consumption with the benefits of high performance and low cost. while coolrunner-ii is suitable for a wide variety of end markets and applications, the ultra low power consumption and small package profiles of these devices have led to their acceptance in the growing portable consumer electronics marketplace. the coolrunner xpla3 family was the first cpld product to combine very low power consumption with high density and high i/o counts in a single device. this family consists of six devices. prior generation cpld families include the xc9500, xc9500xl and xc9500xv which offer low cost, high performance and in-system programmability for 5.0-volt, 3.3-volt and 2.5-volt systems, respectively. these families are widely used in communications and industrial applications. support products software solutions we offer complete software solutions that enable customers to implement their design specifications into our plds. these software design tools combine a powerful technology with a flexible, easy-to-use graphical interface to help achieve the best possible designs within each customer project schedule, regardless of the designer experience level. our software design tools operate on personal computers running microsoft windows 2000, xp and linux operating systems, and on workstations from sun microsystems running solaris. the xilinx ise (integrated software environment) family fits a wide range of customer needs. ise also integrates with a wide range of third-party electronic design automation (eda) software offerings and point-tool solutions to deliver the most flexible design environment available. all xilinx fpga and cpld device families are supported by ise, including the newest virtex, spartan and coolrunner device families. 6 processing solutions xilinx offerings in the areas of dsp and embedded processing are aimed at solving system level problems of non-traditional users such as system architects and software engineers. processing solutions enable new growth for xilinx beyond the pld market segment by building and delivering a configurable processing platform, tools, and ip for specific vertical markets. products available include logicore ip, connectivity cores, microblaze and power pc processors, system generator for dsp, acceldsp architectural synthesis, platform studio tool and the embedded development kit. configuration solutions through our configuration solutions group, xilinx offers a range of one-time programmable and in-system programmable storage devices to configure xilinx fpgas. the platformflash prom (programmable read only memory) family is our newest offering. this family ranges in density from 1 to 32 megabits and offers full in-system programmability at the lowest cost per megabit of any xilinx configuration solution. older solutions include our xc1700 family (one-time programmable with density up to 16 megabits), and the xc1800 family (in-system programmable with density up to 4 megabits). our prom solutions support all of our fpga devices. global services to extend our customers technical capabilities and shorten their design times, we offer a portfolio of global services, which includes education, design and support services. in addition, we offer a personalized online technical resource, www.mysupport.xilinx.com . please see information under the caption results of operations net revenues in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for information about our revenues from our classes of products. research and development our research and development activities are primarily directed towards the design of new ics, the development of new software design automation tools for hardware and embedded software, the design of ip cores of logic and the adoption of advanced semiconductor manufacturing processes for ongoing cost reductions, performance and signal integrity improvements and lowering power consumption. as a result of our research and development efforts, we have introduced a number of new products during the past years including the virtex-5 and virtex-4 series of fpgas, and the spartan-3 fpga series. additionally, we have made major enhancements to our ip core offerings and introduced new versions of our ise software. to support embedded processing and dsp design on our platform fpga devices, the platform studio tool suite and system generator for dsp have been further enhanced. we extended our collaboration with our foundry suppliers in the development of 90-nm and 65-nm complementary metal oxide semiconductor (cmos) manufacturing technology and we are the first company in the pld industry to ship 65-nm devices. our research and development challenge is to continue to develop new products that create cost-effective solutions for customers. in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, our research and development expenses were $388.1 million, $326.1 million and $307.4 million, respectively. we believe technical leadership and innovation are essential to our future success and we are committed to continuing a significant level of research and development effort. however, there can be no assurance that any of our research and development efforts will be successful, timely or cost-effective. sales and distribution we sell our products to oems and to electronic components distributors who resell these products to oems or subcontract manufacturers. we use a dedicated global sales and marketing organization as well as independent sales representatives to generate sales. in general, we focus our direct demand creation efforts on a limited number of key accounts with independent sales representatives often addressing those customers in defined territories. distributors create demand within the balance of our customer base. distributors also provide vendor managed inventory, value added services and logistics for a wide range of our oem customers. 7 whether xilinx, the independent sales representative, or the distributor identifies the sales opportunity, a local distributor will process and fulfill the majority of all customer orders. in such situations, distributors are the legal sellers of the products and as such they bear all risks generally related to the sale of commercial goods, such as credit loss, inventory shrinkage and theft, as well as foreign currency fluctuations. in accordance with our distribution agreements and industry practice, we have granted the distributors the contractual right to return certain amounts of unsold product on a periodic basis and also receive price adjustments for unsold product in the case of a subsequent change in list prices. revenue recognition on shipments to distributors worldwide is deferred until the products are sold to the distributor end customer. avnet, inc. (avnet) distributes the substantial majority of our products worldwide. no end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues in fiscal 2007, 2006 or 2005. in july 2005, two of the company distributors, avnet and the memec group (memec), consolidated and merged into one entity, with avnet as the surviving company. as of march 31, 2007 and april 1, 2006, the combined avnet/memec entity accounted for 86% and 78% of the company total accounts receivable, respectively. resale of product through this combined entity accounted for 67% of the company worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2007. had this acquisition been completed for all periods presented, resale of product through this combined entity would have accounted for 70% and 76% of the company worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively. we also use other regional distributors throughout the world. from time to time, we may add or terminate distributors in specific geographies, as we deem appropriate given the level of business and their performance. we believe distributors provide a cost-effective means of reaching a broad range of customers while providing efficient logistics services. since plds are standard products, they do not present many of the inventory risks to distributors posed by custom gate arrays, and they simplify the requirements for distributor technical support. see note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, for information about concentrations of credit risk. please also see note 14 to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, for financial information about our revenues from external customers and domestic and international operations. backlog as of march 31, 2007, our backlog from oem customers and backlog from end customers reported by our distributors scheduled for delivery within the next three months was $190.0 million, compared to $223.0 million as of april 1, 2006. orders from end customers to our distributors are subject to changes in delivery schedules or to cancellation without significant penalty. as a result, backlogs from both oem customers and end customers reported by our distributors as of any particular period may not be a reliable indicator of revenue for any future period. wafer fabrication as a fabless semiconductor company, we do not manufacture wafers used for our products. rather, we purchase wafers from multiple foundries including united microelectronics corporation (umc), toshiba corporation (toshiba) and seiko epson corporation (seiko). currently, umc manufactures the substantial majority of our wafers. precise terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by our periodic negotiations with the wafer foundries. our strategy is to focus our resources on market development and creating new ics and software design tools rather than on wafer fabrication. we continuously evaluate opportunities to enhance foundry relationships and/or obtain additional capacity from our main suppliers as well as other suppliers of leading-edge process technologies. as a result, we entered into agreements with umc, toshiba and seiko as discussed below. in september 1995, we entered into a joint venture with umc and other parties to construct a wafer fabrication facility in taiwan, known as united silicon inc. (usic). in january 2000, as a result of the merger of usic into umc, our equity position in usic was converted into shares of umc, which are publicly traded on the taiwan stock exchange. we retain monthly guaranteed wafer capacity rights in umc as long as we retain a certain percentage of our original umc shares. also see note 4 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. in fiscal 1997, we signed a wafer purchasing agreement with seiko that was amended in fiscal 1998, 1999 and 2000. seiko manufactures wafers for our older, more mature product lines. 8 in october 2004, the company entered into an advanced purchase agreement with toshiba under which the company paid toshiba a total of $100.0 million in two equal installments for advance payment of silicon wafers produced under the agreement. the original agreement was extended to december 2007. the entire advance payment of $100.0 million is being reduced by wafer purchases from toshiba and any unused portion is fully refundable in december 2007 if toshiba is not able to maintain ongoing production and quality criteria or if future wafer purchases do not exceed the total amount advanced. the balance of the advance payment remaining was $40.0 million at march 31, 2007. sort, assembly and test wafers purchased are sorted by the foundry, independent sort subcontractors, or by xilinx. sorted wafers are assembled by subcontractors. during the assembly process, the wafers are separated into individual die, which are then assembled into various package types. following assembly, the packaged units are tested by xilinx personnel at our san jose, california, dublin, ireland or singapore facilities or by independent test subcontractors. we purchase most of our assembly and some of our testing services from siliconware precision industries ltd. in taiwan and from amkor technology, inc. in korea and the philippines. quality certification xilinx achieved iso 9001 quality certification in 1995 in san jose, california, in 2001 in dublin, ireland and in 2004 in longmont, colorado, the main site for our software development efforts. in addition, xilinx achieved iso 14001, tl 9000 and ts 16949 environmental and quality certifications in the san jose, dublin and singapore locations. patents and licenses while our various proprietary intellectual property rights are important to our success, we believe our business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. as of march 31, 2007, we held 1,562 issued united states patents relating to our products, which vary in duration. we maintain an active program of filing for additional patents in the areas of, but not limited to, software, ic architecture, system design, testing methodologies and other technologies relating to plds. we intend to vigorously protect our intellectual property. we believe that failure to enforce our intellectual property rights (for example, patents, copyrights and trademarks) or to effectively protect our trade secrets could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in the future, we may incur litigation expenses to enforce our intellectual property rights against third parties. however, any such litigation may or may not be successful. we have acquired various software licenses that permit us to grant sublicenses to our customers for certain third party software programs licensed with our software design tools. in addition, we have licensed certain software for internal use in product design. we are also licensed under certain third party patents and have provided some third parties licenses under company patents. employees as of march 31, 2007, we had 3,353 employees compared to 3,295 at the end of the prior fiscal year. none of our employees are represented by a labor union. we have not experienced any work stoppages and believe we maintain good employee relations. executive officers of the registrant certain information regarding each of xilinx executive officers is set forth below: name age position willem p. roelandts 62 president, chief executive officer and chairman of the board of directors patrick w. little 44 vice president, worldwide sales and services iain m. morris 50 executive vice president and general manager jon a. olson 53 senior vice president, finance and chief financial officer boon c. ooi 53 vice president, worldwide operations omid tahernia 46 vice president and general manager sandeep s. vij 41 vice president, worldwide marketing 9 there are no family relationships among the executive officers of the company or the board of directors. willem p. wim roelandts joined the company in january 1996 as chief executive officer and a member of the company board of directors. in april 1996, mr. roelandts was appointed to the additional position of president of the company and he assumed the role of chairman of the board of directors on august 7, 2003 upon the retirement of bernard v. vonderschmitt. prior to joining the company, he served at hewlett-packard company as senior vice president and general manager of computer systems organizations from august 1992 through january 1996 and as vice president and general manager of the network systems group from december 1990 through august 1992. mr. roelandts also serves as a director of applied materials, inc. patrick w. little joined the company in march 2003 as vice president and general manager and was promoted in march 2005 to vice president of worldwide sales. mr. little was promoted to his current position of vice president, worldwide sales and services in december 2005. from september 1999 to march 2003, he served as president and ceo of believe, inc. mr. little served as executive vice president of sales and marketing at rendition, inc. from march 1998 to september 1999. he was general manager of the audio business division of diamond multimedia systems, inc., and held various senior management positions at trident microsystems, inc. and opti, inc., from 1992 to 1998. iain m. morris joined the company in november 2006 as executive vice president and general manager. from december 2003 to may 2006, mr. morris was senior vice president at advanced micro devices, inc. with responsibility for the digital media and pervasive computing group. from february 2001 to august 2003, mr. morris served at hewlett-packard company, where he was senior vice president of mobility and emerging business and president of embedded and personal systems, respectively. prior to joining hewlett-packard company, he spent nearly 25 years at motorola, inc. serving in a variety of positions where he oversaw divisions involved with engineering, product development, marketing and direct sales. jon a. olson joined the company in june 2005 as vice president, finance and chief financial officer. mr. olson was promoted to his current position of senior vice president, finance and chief financial officer in august 2006. he has overall responsibility for worldwide finance, tax, business and strategy development, information technology, treasury and investor relations and administrative responsibility for internal audit. prior to joining the company, mr. olson spent more than 25 years at intel corporation serving in a variety of positions, including vice president, finance and enterprise services, director of finance. boon c. ooi joined the company in november 2003 as vice president, worldwide operations. he has overall responsibility for worldwide manufacturing, testing, assembly engineering and supply chain management for xilinx programmable logic devices. mr. ooi also oversees strategic management of the company semiconductor foundry and packaging suppliers. prior to joining the company, mr. ooi spent more than 25 years at intel corporation serving in a variety of positions, including vice president of the corporate technology group and director of operations. omid tahernia joined the company in august 2004 as vice president and general manager. prior to joining the company, mr. tahernia worked at motorola, inc. for over 20 years in both the equipment and semiconductor segments. from january 1999 to may 2003, he served at motorola semiconductor as vice president and general manager of the wireless and mobile systems division driving chipset platforms including baseband processors and from may 2003 to june 2004 as vice president and director of worldwide strategy and business development for the wireless group. previously, mr. tahernia held various management positions in motorola paging division. sandeep s. vij joined the company in april 1996 as director, fpga marketing and was promoted to vice president, marketing and general manager in october 1996. mr. vij assumed his current position of vice president, worldwide marketing in july 2001. from 1990 until april 1996, he served at altera corporation in a variety of marketing roles. mr. vij also serves as a director of coherent inc. additional information our internet address is www.xilinx.com . we make available, via a link through our investor relations website located at www.investor.xilinx.com , access to our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission (sec). all such filings on our investor relations website are available free of charge. further, a copy of this annual report on form 10-k is located at the sec public reference room at 450 fifth street, nw, washington, d.c. 20549. information on the operation 10 of the public reference room can be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings at http://www.sec.gov . the content on any website referred to in this filing is not incorporated by reference into this filing unless expressly noted otherwise. additional information required by this item 1 is incorporated by reference to the section captioned net revenues net revenues by geography in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and to note 14 to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. item 1a. risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the company faces. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or that the company management currently deems immaterial also may impair its business operations. if any of the risks described below were to occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. the semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological change, intense competition and cyclical market patterns which contribute to create factors that may affect our future operating results including: market demand increased dependence on turns orders (orders received and shipped within the same fiscal quarter); limited visibility of demand for products, especially new products; reduced capital spending by our customers; weaker demand for our products or those of our customers due to a prolonged period of economic uncertainty; excess inventory at xilinx and within the supply chain including overbuilding of oem products; additional excess and obsolete inventories and corresponding write-downs due to a significant deterioration in demand; inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of a given product in a timely manner; inability to obtain manufacturing or test and assembly capacity in sufficient volume; inability to predict the success of our customers products in their markets; an unexpected increase in demand resulting in longer lead times that causes delays in customer production schedules; dependence on the health of the end markets and customers we serve; competitive environment price and product competition, which can change rapidly due to technological innovation; customers converting to asic or assp designs from xilinx plds; faster than normal erosion of average selling prices; timely introduction of new products and ability to manufacture in sufficient quantities at introduction; technology lower gross margins due to product or customer mix shifts and reduced manufacturing efficiency; failure to retain or attract specialized technical/management personnel; timely introduction of advanced manufacturing technologies; ability to safeguard the company products from competitors by means of patents and other intellectual property protections; impact of new technologies which result in rapid escalation of demand for certain products with corresponding declines in demand for others; ability to successfully manage multiple vendor relationships; other changes in accounting pronouncements; dependence on distributors to generate sales and process customer orders; disruption in sales generation, order processing and logistics if a distributor materially defaults on a contract; impact of changes to current export/import laws and regulations; 11 volatility of the securities market, particularly as it relates to the technology sector; unexpected product quality issues; global events impacting the world economy or specific regions of the world; increase in the cost of natural resources; parts shortages at our suppliers; failure of information systems impacting financial reporting; catastrophes that impact the ability of our supply chain to operate or deliver product; and higher costs associated with multiple foundry relationships. we attempt to identify changes in market conditions as soon as possible; however, the dynamics of the market make prediction of and timely reaction to such events difficult. due to these and other factors, our past results, including those described in this report, are much less reliable predictors of the future than with companies in many older, more stable and mature industries. based on the factors noted herein, we may experience substantial fluctuations in future operating results. our results of operations are impacted by global economic and political conditions, dependence on new products, dependence on independent manufacturers and subcontractors, competition, intellectual property, potential effect of new accounting pronouncements, financial reporting and internal controls environment and litigation, each of which is discussed in greater detail below. potential effect of global economic and political conditions sales and operations outside of the u.s. subject us to the risks associated with conducting business in foreign economic and regulatory environments. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in countries in which we do significant business and by changes in foreign currency exchange rates affecting those countries. for example, we have sales and operations in the asia pacific region, japan and europe. past economic weakness in these markets adversely affected revenues, and such conditions may occur in the future. sales to all direct oems and distributors are denominated in u.s. dollars. while the recent movement of the euro and yen against the u.s. dollar had no material impact to our business, increased volatility could impact our european and japanese customers. currency instability may increase credit risks for some of our customers and may impair our customers ability to repay existing obligations. increased currency volatility could also positively or negatively impact our foreign currency denominated costs, assets and liabilities. any or all of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. our financial condition and results of operations are increasingly dependent on the global economy. any instability in worldwide economic environments occasioned, for example, by political instability or terrorist activity could impact economic activity and could lead to a contraction of capital spending by our customers. additional risks to us include u.s. military actions, changes in u.s. government spending on military and defense activities impacting defense-associated sales, economic sanctions imposed by the u.s. government, government regulation of exports, imposition of tariffs and other potential trade barriers, reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries, rising oil prices and generally longer receivable collection periods. moreover, our financial condition and results of operations could be affected in the event of political conflicts or economic crises in countries where our main wafer providers, end customers and contract manufacturers who provide assembly and test services worldwide, are located. dependence on new products our success depends in large part on our ability to develop and introduce new products that address customer requirements and compete effectively on the basis of price, density, functionality, power consumption and performance. the success of new product introductions is dependent upon several factors, including: timely completion of new product designs; ability to generate new design opportunities (design wins); availability of specialized field application engineering resources supporting demand creation and customer adoption of new products; ability to utilize advanced manufacturing process technologies on circuit geometries of 65nm and smaller; achieving acceptable yields; ability to obtain adequate production capacity from our wafer foundries and assembly subcontractors; ability to obtain advanced packaging; 12 availability of supporting software design tools; utilization of predefined ip cores of logic; customer acceptance of advanced features in our new products; and successful deployment of electronic systems by our customers. our product development efforts may not be successful, our new products may not achieve industry acceptance and we may not achieve the necessary volume of production that would lead to further per unit cost reductions. revenues relating to our mature products are expected to decline in the future, which is normal for our product life cycles. as a result, we may be increasingly dependent on revenues derived from design wins for our newer products as well as anticipated cost reductions in the manufacture of our current products. we rely primarily on obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture of existing products and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and other price/performance factors that enable us to increase revenues while maintaining consistent margins. to the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner, or to the extent that our products do not achieve market acceptance at prices with higher margins, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. dependence on independent manufacturers and subcontractors during fiscal 2007, nearly all of our wafers were manufactured either in taiwan, by umc or in japan, by toshiba or seiko. terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations between xilinx and these wafer foundries, which usually result in short-term agreements. we are dependent on these foundries, especially umc, which supplies the substantial majority of our wafers. we rely on umc to produce wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes. these attributes include an ability to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies and increased wafer sizes, produce wafers at acceptable yields, and deliver them in a timely manner. we cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our wafers will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies. in addition, greater demand for wafers produced by the foundries without an offsetting increase in foundry capacity, raises the likelihood of potential wafer price increases and wafer shortages. umc foundries in taiwan and toshiba and seiko foundries in japan as well as many of our operations in california are centered in areas that have been seismically active in the recent past. should there be a major earthquake in our suppliers or our operating locations in the future, our operations, including our manufacturing activities, may be disrupted. this type of disruption could result in our inability to ship products in a timely manner, thereby materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, disruption of operations at these foundries for any reason, including other natural disasters such as fires or floods, as well as disruptions in access to adequate supplies of electricity, natural gas or water could cause delays in shipments of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we are also dependent on subcontractors to provide semiconductor assembly, test and shipment services. any prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, unavailability of or disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demand reducing net sales and negatively impacting our financial condition and results of operations. competition our plds compete in the logic ic industry, an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion. we expect increased competition from our primary pld competitors, altera corporation (altera), lattice semiconductor corporation and actel corporation, from the asic market, which has been ongoing since the inception of fpgas, from the assp market, and from new companies that may enter the traditional programmable logic market segment. we believe that important competitive factors in the logic industry include: product pricing; time-to-market; product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density; field upgradability; adaptability of products to specific applications; 13 ease of use and functionality of software design tools; functionality of predefined ip cores of logic; inventory management; access to leading-edge process technology and assembly capacity; and ability to provide timely customer service and support. our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high-volume, low-cost and low-power applications as well as high-performance, high-density applications. in addition, we anticipate continued price reductions proportionate with our ability to lower the cost for established products. however, we may not be successful in achieving these strategies. other competitors include manufacturers of: high-density programmable logic products characterized by fpga-type architectures; high-volume and low-cost fpgas as programmable replacements for asics and assps; asics and assps with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; high-speed, low-density cplds; high-performance dsp devices; products with embedded processors; products with embedded multi-gigabit transceivers; and other new or emerging programmable logic products. several companies have introduced products that compete with ours or have announced their intention to enter the pld segment. to the extent that our efforts to compete are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the benefits of programmable logic have attracted a number of competitors to the market segment. we recognize that different applications require different programmable technologies, and we are developing architectures, processes and products to meet these varying customer needs. recognizing the increasing importance of standard software solutions, we have developed common software design tools that support the full range of our ic products. we believe that automation and ease of design are significant competitive factors in the pld market segment. we could also face competition from our licensees. we have granted limited rights to other companies with respect to certain of our older technology which may enable them to manufacture and market products which may be competitive with some of our older products. for example, in july 2001, in connection with a settlement of patent litigation with altera, we entered into a royalty-free patent cross license agreement which terminated in july 2006. intellectual property we rely upon patent, copyright, trade secret, mask work and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property. we cannot provide assurance that such intellectual property rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. from time to time, third parties, including our competitors, have asserted patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to us. third parties may assert infringement claims against us in the future; assertions by third parties may result in costly litigation and we may not prevail in such litigation or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. any infringement claim or other litigation against us or by us could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. considerable number of common shares subject to future issuance as of march 31, 2007, we had 2.00 billion authorized common shares, of which 295.9 million shares were outstanding. in addition, 99.7 million common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to employee stock option and employee stock purchase plans (equity plans), and 32.1 million shares were reserved for issuance upon conversion or repurchase of the 3.125% junior subordinated convertible debentures (debentures). the availability of substantial amounts of our common shares resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity plans or the conversion or repurchase of debentures using common shares, which would be dilutive to existing security holders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. 14 potential effect of new accounting pronouncements there may be potential new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings, which may have an impact on our future financial condition and results of operations. for example, the accounting method for convertible debt securities with net share settlement, such as our debentures, may be subject to change. under the accounting rules currently in effect, for the purpose of calculating diluted net income per common share, a convertible debt security providing for net share settlement of the conversion value and meeting specified requirements under applicable accounting rules, is accounted for interest expense purposes similarly to non-convertible debt. as a result, stated coupon constituting interest expense and any shares issuable upon conversion of the debt security would be accounted for under the treasury stock method. the effect of the treasury stock method is that the shares potentially issuable upon conversion of the debentures are not included in the calculation of our diluted net income per common share except to the extent that the conversion value of the debentures exceeds their principal amount, in which event the number of shares of our common stock necessary to settle the conversion are treated as having been issued for diluted net income per common share purposes. the accounting method for net share settled convertible securities is currently under consideration by the emerging issues task force (eitf) of the financial accounting standards board (fasb). under consideration is a proposed method for accounting for net share settled convertible securities under which the debt and equity components of the security would be bifurcated and accounted for separately. we cannot predict the outcome of this process or any other changes in generally accepted accounting principles (gaap) that may affect accounting for convertible debt securities. any change in the accounting method for convertible debt securities could have an adverse impact on our financial results. these impacts could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and in turn negatively impact the trading price of the debentures. please see note 11 to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, for additional information about the debentures. please also see note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, for additional information about recent accounting pronouncements. financial reporting and internal controls environment we are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (the act). our controls necessary for continued compliance with the act may not operate effectively at all times and may result in a material weakness disclosure. the identification of material weaknesses in internal control, if any, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements. further, our internal control effectiveness may be impacted if we are unable to retain sufficient skilled finance and accounting personnel, especially in light of the increased demand for such personnel among publicly traded companies. litigation see item 3. legal proceedings. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 35 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our investment portfolio, which consists of fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $1.69 billion at march 31, 2007. our primary aim with our investment portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal and meeting liquidity needs. the portfolio includes municipal bonds, floating rate notes, mortgage-backed securities, bank certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate bonds, auction rate securities and u.s. and foreign government and agency securities. in accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. these securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in market interest rates compared to interest rates at march 31, 2007 and april 1, 2006 would not materially affect the fair value of our available-for-sale securities and the impact on our investment portfolio would have been less than $8.0 million and $10.0 million, respectively. foreign currency exchange risk sales to all direct oems and distributors are denominated in u.s. dollars. gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts that are designated and effective as hedges of anticipated transactions, for which a firm commitment has been attained, are deferred and included in the basis of the transaction in the same period that the underlying transaction is settled. gains and losses on any instruments not meeting the above criteria are recognized in income or expenses in the consolidated statements of income as they are incurred. we will enter into forward currency exchange contracts to hedge our overseas operating expenses and other liabilities when deemed appropriate. as of march 31, 2007 and april 1, 2006, we had the following outstanding forward currency exchange contracts: march 31, 2007 april 1, 2006 (in thousands and u.s. dollars) singapore dollar $16,902 $15,929 euro 12,794 japanese yen 4,309 4,103 $21,211 $32,826 the net unrealized gain or loss which approximates the fair market value of the above contracts was immaterial at march 31, 2007 and april 1, 2006. the contracts expire at various dates between april and july 2007. our investments in several wholly-owned subsidiaries are recorded in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. as these foreign currency denominated investments are translated at each quarter end during consolidation, fluctuations of exchange rates between the foreign currency and the u.s. dollar increase or decrease the value of those investments. these fluctuations are recorded within stockholders equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. in addition, as our subsidiaries maintain investments denominated in other than local currencies, exchange rate fluctuations will occur. a hypothetical 10% favorable or unfavorable change 35 in foreign currency exchange rates compared to rates at march 31, 2007 and april 1, 2006 would have affected the value of our investments in foreign currency denominated subsidiaries by less than $14.0 million and $12.0 million, respectively. equity security price risk our investment in marketable equity securities at march 31, 2007 consists almost entirely of our investment in umc, which consists of shares of common stock, the value of which is determined by the closing price on the taiwan stock exchange as of the balance sheet date. this value is converted from new taiwan dollars into u.s. dollars and included in our determination of the change in the fair value of our investment in umc which is accounted for under the provisions of sfas no. 115, accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities (sfas 115). the market value of our investment in umc was approximately $67.0 million at march 31, 2007 as compared to our adjusted cost basis of approximately $62.5 million. the value of our investment in umc would be materially impacted if there were a significant change in the market price of the umc shares and/or new taiwan dollars. excluding the effect of any changes in the new taiwan dollar, a hypothetical 30% favorable or unfavorable change in umc stock price compared to the stock price at march 31, 2007 would have affected the value of our investment in umc by less than $21.0 million. see note 4 to our consolidated financial statements, included inrisk factors 11 item 1b. unresolved staff comments 16 item 2. properties 16 item 3. legal proceedings 17 item 4. submission of matters to a vote of security holders 18 part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and 19 issuer purchases of equity securities item 6. selected financial data 21 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results 22 of operations item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 35 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data 37 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and 68 financial disclosure item 9a. controls and procedures 68 item 9b. other information 68 part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance 69 item 11. executive compensation 69 item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management 69 and related stockholder matters item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence 71 item 14. principal accountant fees and services 71 part iv item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules 72 signatures 74 2 part i forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements may be found throughout this annual report and particularly in items 1. business and 3. legal proceedings which contain discussions concerning our development efforts, strategy, new product introductions, backlog and litigation. forward-looking statements involve numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed or implied. such risks include, but are not limited to, those discussed throughout this document as well as in item 1a. "risk factors." often, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words, such as may, will, could, should, expect, believe, anticipate, estimate, continue, plan, intend, project and other similar terminology, or the negative of such terms. we disclaim any responsibility to update or revise any forward-looking statement provided in this annual report or in any of our other communications for any reason. item 1. business xilinx, inc. (xilinx or the company) designs, develops and markets complete programmable logic solutions. these solutions have several components: advanced integrated circuits (ics) in the form of programmable logic devices (plds); software design tools to program the plds; predefined system functions delivered as intellectual property (ip) cores; design services; customer training; and field engineering and technical support. our plds include field programmable gate arrays (fpgas) and complex programmable logic devices (cplds) that our customers program to perform desired logic functions. our solutions are designed to provide high integration and quick time-to-market for electronic equipment manufacturers in end markets such as wired and wireless communications, industrial, scientific and medical, test and measurement, aerospace and defense, audio, video and broadcast, consumer, automotive and data processing. we sell our products globally through independent domestic and foreign distributors and through direct sales to original equipment manufacturers (oems) by a network of independent sales representative firms and by a direct sales management organization. xilinx was founded and incorporated in california in february 1984. in april 1990, the company reincorporated in delaware. our corporate facilities and executive offices are located at 2100 logic drive, san jose, california 95124, and our website address is www.xilinx.com. industry overview there are three principal types of ics used in most digital electronic systems: processors, which generally are utilized for control and computing tasks; memory devices, which are used for storing program instructions and data; and logic devices, which generally are used to manage the interchange and manipulation of digital signals within a system. xilinx develops plds, a type of logic device. alternatives to plds include custom gate arrays, application specific integrated circuits (asics) and application specific standard products (assps). these devices all compete with each other since they may be utilized in many of the same types of applications within electronic systems. however, variations in unit pricing, development cost, product performance, reliability, power consumption, density, functionality, ease of use and time-to-market determine the degree to which the devices compete for specific applications. the primary advantage plds have over custom gate arrays, asics and assps is that plds enable faster time-to-market because of their shorter design cycles. users can program the pld to implement their design, using software to create and revise their designs relatively quickly with lower development costs. plds typically have a larger die size resulting in higher costs per unit compared to custom gate arrays, asics and assps, which are customized to perform a limited fixed function. custom gate arrays, asics and assps, however, generally offer less flexibility, require longer fabrication lead times and higher up-front costs than plds. plds are standard components. this means that the same device type can be sold to many different users for many different applications. as a result, the development cost of plds can be spread over a large number of users. custom gate arrays, asics and assps, on the other hand, are custom chips for an individual user for use in a specific application. assps implement specific functions for a limited set of users. this involves a high up-front cost to users. technology advances are enabling pld companies to reduce costs considerably, making plds an increasingly attractive alternative to custom gate arrays, asics and assps. 3 an overview of typical pld end market applications for our products is shown in the following table: end markets sub-segments applications communications wireless 3g/4g cellular base stations wimax/lte base stations wireless backhaul wireline metro area networks fttx-passive optical networks digital subscriber line access multiplexers (dslams) and cable modem termination systems (cmts) multi-service provisioning platforms (mspps) enterprise switches mid-end and high-end routers consumer, automotive, consumer video display systems, industrial and other lcd/pdp televisions digital video recorders/set top boxes/iptv smart handhelds industrial, scientific and factory automation medical medical imaging test and measurement equipment audio, video and broadcast cable head-end systems production switchers cameras automotive automotive infotainment gps navigation systems rear seat entertainment aerospace and defense satellite surveillance radar and sonar systems secure communications data processing storage security and encryption network attached storage servers high-end servers computer peripherals office automation copiers printers products integral to the success of our business is the timely introduction of new products that meet customer requirements and compete effectively with respect to price, functionality and performance. software design tools, ip cores, technical support and design services are also critical components that enable our customers to implement their design specifications into our plds. altogether, our plds and related ip, service and support form a comprehensive programmable logic solution. a brief overview of our pld offerings follows and is not all-inclusive but does comprise the majority of our 4 revenues. some of our more mature product families have been excluded from the table although they continue to generate revenues. we operate and track our results in one operating segment for financial reporting purposes. product families process fpgas date introduced densities technology voltage 20k to 330k virtex -5 may 2006 logic cells 65nm 1.0v 12k to 200k virtex-4 june 2004 logic cells 90nm 1.2v 3k to 99k virtex-ii pro march 2002 logic cells 130nm 1.5v 576 to 104k virtex-ii january 2001 logic cells 150nm 1.5v 1.7k to 73k virtex-e september 1999 logic cells 180nm 1.8v 1.6k to 54k spartan -3a december 2006 logic cells 90nm 1.2v 2.2k to 33.2k spartan-3e march 2005 logic cells 90nm 1.2v 1.7k to 75k logic spartan-3 april 2003 cells 90nm 1.2v 1.7k to 16k logic spartan-iie november 2001 cells 150nm 1.8v 432 to 5.3k spartan-ii january 2000 logic cells 180nm 2.5v process cplds date introduced densities technology voltage 32 to 512 coolrunner -ii january 2002 macrocells 180nm 1.8v 32 to 512 coolrunner august 1999 macrocells 350nm 3.3v 36 to 288 xc9500xl september 1998 macrocells 350nm 3.3v virtex fpgas the virtex-5 fpga family consists of 24 devices and is the latest generation virtex family and the pld industry first product family manufactured using 65-nanometer (nm) process technology. the virtex-5 family consists of four platforms: virtex-5 lx fpgas for logic-intensive designs, virtex-5 lxt fpgas for high-performance logic with serial connectivity, virtex-5 sxt fpgas for high-performance digital signal processing (dsp) with serial connectivity and virtex-5 fxt fpgas for embedded processing with serial connectivity. within each platform are a number of offerings, differing primarily in the amount of logic, memory, clock and input/output (i/o) resources provided. these offerings enable customers to select the optimal mix of resources for their particular application. currently, xilinx is shipping devices from all platforms. compared to previous 90-nm virtex family products, this product family offers increased performance, density and features, while reducing dynamic power consumption. the 17-device virtex-4 fpga family consists of three platforms: lx, sx and fx. virtex-4 lx fpgas are optimized for logic-intensive designs, virtex-4 sx fpgas are optimized for high-performance dsp, and virtex-4 fx fpgas are optimized for embedded processing with serial connectivity. virtex-4 devices are produced on 90-nm process technology. prior generation virtex families include virtex-ii pro, virtex-ii, virtex-e and the original virtex family. 5 spartan fpgas the spartan-3 generation fpgas were the pld industry first 90-nm fpgas and were developed as a programmable alternative to asics for new applications in high growth end markets such as consumer, automotive and low cost networking. the spartan-3 generation is comprised of three primary platforms including the original spartan-3 family, the spartan-3e family, and the spartan-3a family. the spartan-3e family consists of five devices and is optimized to deliver the lowest cost per logic cell. the spartan-3a family consists of 14 devices and is optimized to deliver the lowest cost per i/o. in addition, this family has devices targeted for cost sensitive, high performance signal processing applications and nonvolatile devices optimized for cost sensitive applications where security and board space are customer priorities. prior generation spartan families include spartan-iie, spartan-ii, spartan xl and the original spartan family. easypath fpgas easypath fpgas use the same production masks and fabrication process as standard fpgas and are tested to a specific customer application to improve yield and lower costs. as a result, easypath fpgas provide customers with significant cost reduction when compared to the standard fpga devices without the conversion risk, conversion engineering effort or the additional time required to move to an asic. easypath fpgas are available for the higher density devices of the virtex-ii, virtex-ii pro and virtex-4 families. easypath fpgas will also be available for the higher densities of the virtex-5 families. customers purchasing easypath fpgas must meet certain minimum order requirements and pay a custom test generation charge. cplds cplds operate on the low end of the programmable logic density spectrum. cplds are single chip, nonvolatile solutions characterized by instant-on and universal interconnect. the coolrunner-ii family is the latest generation xilinx cpld family with six devices in production. coolrunner-ii cplds combine the advantages of ultra low power consumption with the benefits of high performance and low cost. while coolrunner-ii is suitable for a wide variety of end markets and applications, the ultra low power consumption and small package profiles of these devices have led to their acceptance in the growing portable consumer electronics marketplace. the coolrunner xpla3 family was the first cpld product to combine very low power consumption with high density logic and high i/o counts in a single device. this family consists of six devices. prior generation cpld families include the xc9500, xc9500xl and xc9500xv which offer low cost, high performance and in-system programmability for 5.0-volt, 3.3-volt and 2.5-volt systems, respectively. these families are widely used in communications and industrial applications. support products software solutions we offer complete software solutions that enable customers to implement their design specifications into our plds. these software design tools combine a powerful technology with a flexible, easy-to-use graphical interface to help achieve the best possible designs within each customer project schedule, enabling use by designers with varying experience levels. our software design tools operate on personal computers running microsoft windows vista, xp and linux operating systems. the xilinx ise (integrated software environment) design suite fits a wide range of customer needs. ise software also integrates with a wide range of third-party electronic design automation (eda) software offerings and point-tool solutions to deliver the most flexible design environment available. all xilinx fpga and cpld device families are supported by ise software, including the newest virtex, spartan and coolrunner device families. processing solutions xilinx offerings in the areas of dsp and embedded processing are aimed at solving system level problems of existing and non-traditional users such as system architects and software engineers. embedded processing solutions enable new growth 6 for xilinx beyond the pld market segment by building and delivering a configurable processing platform, tools, and ip for specific vertical markets. configuration solutions xilinx offers a range of one-time programmable and in-system programmable storage devices to configure xilinx fpgas. the platformflash prom (programmable read only memory) family is our newest offering. this family ranges in density from 1 to 128 megabits and offers full in-system programmability at the lowest cost per megabit of any xilinx configuration solution. older solutions include our xc1700 family (one-time programmable with density up to 16 megabits), and the xc1800 family (in-system programmable with density up to 4 megabits). our prom solutions support all of our fpga devices. global services to extend our customers technical capabilities and shorten their design times, we offer a portfolio of global services, which includes education, design and support services. in addition, we offer a personalized online technical resource, www.mysupport.xilinx.com. please see information under the caption results of operations net revenues in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for information about our revenues from our product families. research and development our research and development (r&amp;d) activities are primarily directed towards the design of new ics, the development of new software design automation tools for hardware and embedded software, the design of ip cores of logic and the adoption of advanced semiconductor manufacturing processes for ongoing cost reductions, performance and signal integrity improvements and lowering power consumption. as a result of our r&amp;d efforts, we have introduced a number of new products during the past years including the virtex-5 and virtex-4 series of fpgas, and the spartan-3 fpga series. additionally, we have made major enhancements to our ip core offerings and introduced new versions of our ise software. to support embedded processing and dsp design on our platform fpga devices, the platform studio tool suite and system generator for dsp have been further enhanced. we extended our collaboration with our foundry suppliers in the development of 90-nm and 65-nm complementary metal oxide semiconductor (cmos) manufacturing technology and we are the first company in the pld industry to ship 65-nm devices. our r&amp;d challenge is to continue to develop new products that create cost-effective solutions for customers. in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, our r&amp;d expenses were $358.1 million, $388.1 million and $326.1 million, respectively. we believe technical leadership and innovation are essential to our future success and we are committed to continuing a significant level of r&amp;d effort. sales and distribution we sell our products to oems and to electronic components distributors who resell these products to oems or subcontract manufacturers. we use dedicated global sales and marketing organizations as well as independent sales representatives to generate sales. in general, we focus our direct demand creation efforts on a limited number of key accounts with independent sales representatives often addressing those customers in defined territories. distributors create demand within the balance of our customer base. distributors also provide vendor-managed inventory, value-added services and logistics for a wide range of our oem customers. whether xilinx, the independent sales representative, or the distributor identifies the sales opportunity, a local distributor will process and fulfill the majority of all customer orders. in such situations, distributors are the sellers of the products and as such they bear all legal and financial risks generally related to the sale of commercial goods, such as credit loss, inventory shrinkage and theft, as well as foreign currency fluctuations, but excluding indemnity and warranty liability. in accordance with our distribution agreements and industry practice, we have granted the distributors the contractual right to return certain amounts of unsold product on a periodic basis and also receive price adjustments for unsold product in the case of a subsequent change in list prices. revenue recognition on shipments to distributors worldwide is deferred until the products are sold to the distributors end customers. 7 avnet, inc. (avnet) distributes the substantial majority of our products worldwide. no end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 or 2006. as of march 29, 2008 and march 31, 2007, avnet accounted for 83% and 86% of the company total accounts receivable, respectively. resale of product through avnet accounted for 61%, 67% and 70% of the company worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. we also use other regional distributors throughout the world. from time to time, we may add or terminate distributors in specific geographies, as we deem appropriate given the level of business and their performance. we believe distributors provide a cost-effective means of reaching a broad range of customers while providing efficient logistics services. since plds are standard products, they do not present many of the inventory risks to distributors posed by custom gate arrays, and they simplify the requirements for distributor technical support. see note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, for information about concentrations of credit risk and note 15 for information about our revenues from external customers and domestic and international operations. backlog as of march 29, 2008, our backlog from oem customers and backlog from end customers reported by our distributors scheduled for delivery within the next three months was $202.0 million, compared to $190.0 million as of march 31, 2007. orders from end customers to our distributors are subject to changes in delivery schedules or to cancellation without significant penalty. as a result, backlogs from both oem customers and end customers reported by our distributors as of any particular period may not be a reliable indicator of revenue for any future period. wafer fabrication as a fabless semiconductor company, we do not manufacture wafers used for our products. rather, we purchase wafers from multiple foundries including united microelectronics corporation (umc), toshiba corporation (toshiba), seiko epson corporation (seiko) and he jian technology (suzhou) co., ltd. currently, umc manufactures the substantial majority of our wafers. precise terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by our periodic negotiations with the wafer foundries. our strategy is to focus our resources on market development and creating new ics and software design tools rather than on wafer fabrication. we continuously evaluate opportunities to enhance foundry relationships and/or obtain additional capacity from our main suppliers as well as other suppliers of leading-edge process technologies. in september 1995, we entered into a joint venture with umc and other parties to construct a wafer fabrication facility in taiwan, known as united silicon inc. (usic). in january 2000, as a result of the merger of usic into umc, our equity position in usic was converted into shares of umc, which are publicly traded on the taiwan stock exchange. in fiscal 2007, we sold a portion of our umc shares and we sold the remaining shares of our umc investment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. also see note 4 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. in fiscal 1997, we signed a wafer purchasing agreement with seiko that was amended in fiscal 1998, 1999 and 2000. seiko manufactures wafers for our older, more mature product lines. in october 2004, the company entered into an advanced purchase agreement with toshiba under which the company paid toshiba a total of $100.0 million in two equal installments for advance payment of silicon wafers produced under the agreement. the original agreement was extended to december 2008. the balance of the advance payment remaining was $4.5 million at march 29, 2008. sort, assembly and test wafers purchased are sorted by the foundry, independent sort subcontractors, or by xilinx. sorted die are assembled by subcontractors. during the assembly process, the wafers are separated into individual die, which are then assembled into various package types. following assembly, the packaged units are tested by xilinx personnel at our san jose, california, dublin, ireland or singapore facilities or by independent test subcontractors. we purchase most of our assembly and some of our testing services from siliconware precision industries ltd. in taiwan, amkor technology, inc. in korea and the philippines and stats chippac ltd. in singapore. quality certification xilinx has achieved iso 9001 quality certification in our san jose, california, dublin, ireland, longmont, colorado, singapore and albuquerque locations. in addition, xilinx achieved 8 iso 14001, tl 9000 and ts 16949 environmental and quality certifications in the san jose, dublin and singapore locations and tl 9000 and ts16949 quality certifications in the albuquerque location. patents and licenses while our various proprietary intellectual property rights are important to our success, we believe our business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. as of march 29, 2008, we held 1,785 issued united states patents relating to our products, which vary in duration. we maintain an active program of filing for additional patents in the areas of, but not limited to, software, ic architecture, system design, testing methodologies and other technologies relating to plds. we intend to vigorously protect our intellectual property. we believe that failure to enforce our intellectual property rights (for example, patents, copyrights and trademarks) or failure to protect our trade secrets effectively could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in the future, we may incur litigation expenses to enforce our intellectual property rights against third parties. however, any such litigation may or may not be successful. we have acquired various software licenses that permit us to grant sublicenses to our customers for certain third party software programs licensed with our software design tools. in addition, we have licensed certain software for internal use in product design. we are also licensed under certain third party patents and have provided some third parties licenses under company patents. employees as of march 29, 2008, we had 3,415 employees compared to 3,353 at the end of the prior fiscal year. none of our employees are represented by a labor union. we have not experienced any work stoppages and believe we maintain good employee relations. executive officers of the registrant certain information regarding the executive officers of xilinx as of may 28, 2008 is set forth below: name age position moshe n. gavrielov 53 president and chief executive officer (ceo) scott r. hover-smoot 53 vice president, general counsel and secretary patrick w. little 45 senior vice president, products and market development jon a. olson 54 senior vice president, finance and chief financial officer (cfo) boon c. ooi 54 senior vice president, worldwide operations and business process reengineering victor peng 48 senior vice president, silicon engineering group vincent f. ratford 56 senior vice president, solutions development group frank a. tornaghi 53 senior vice president, worldwide sales there are no family relationships among the executive officers of the company or the board of directors. moshe n. gavrielov joined the company in january 2008 as president and ceo and was appointed to the board of directors in february 2008. prior to joining the company, he served at cadence design systems, inc., an electronic design automation company, as executive vice president and general manager of the verification division from april 2005 through november 2007. mr. gavrielov served as ceo of verisity ltd., an electronic design automation company, from march 1998 to april 2005 prior to its acquisition by cadence design systems, inc. prior to joining verisity, mr. gavrielov spent nearly 10 years at lsi corporation (formerly lsi logic corporation), a semiconductor manufacturer, in a variety of executive management positions, including executive vice president of the products group, senior vice president and general manager of international marketing and sales and senior vice president and general manager of lsi logic europe plc. prior to joining lsi corporation, mr. gavrielov held various engineering and engineering management positions at digital equipment corporation and national semiconductor corporation. scott r. hover-smoot joined the company in october 2007 as vice president, general counsel and secretary. from november 2001 to october 2007, mr. hover-smoot served as regional counsel and director of legal operations with taiwan semiconductor manufacturing company, ltd., an independent semiconductor foundry. he served as vice president and general counsel of california micro devices corporation, a provider of application-specific protection devices and display electronics devices from june 1994 to november 2001. prior to joining california micro devices corporation, mr. hover-smoot spent over 20 years working in law firms including berliner-cohen, flehr, hohbach, test, albritton &amp; herbert, and lyon &amp; lyon. 9 patrick w. little joined the company in march 2003 as vice president and general manager. he was promoted in march 2005 to vice president of worldwide sales and to vice president, worldwide sales and services in december 2005. mr. little assumed the position of vice president and general manager in february 2008. he was promoted to his current position of senior vice president, products and market development in april 2008. from september 1999 to march 2003, he served as president and ceo of believe, inc., a computer graphics imaging company. mr. little served as executive vice president of sales and marketing at rendition, inc., a graphics ic company, from march 1998 to september 1999. he was general manager of the audio business division of diamond multimedia systems, inc., and held various senior management positions at trident microsystems, inc. and opti, inc., from 1992 to 1998. jon a. olson joined the company in june 2005 as vice president, finance and cfo. mr. olson was promoted to his current position of senior vice president, finance and cfo in august 2006. prior to joining the company, mr. olson spent more than 25 years at intel corporation, a semiconductor chip maker, serving in a variety of positions, including vice president, finance and enterprise services, director of finance. boon c. ooi joined the company in november 2003 as vice president, worldwide operations. mr. ooi was promoted to his current position of senior vice president, worldwide operations and business process reengineering in november 2007. prior to joining the company, mr. ooi spent more than 25 years at intel corporation serving in a variety of positions, including vice president of the corporate technology group and director of operations. victor peng joined the company in april 2008 as senior vice president, silicon engineering group. prior to joining the company, mr. peng served as corporate vice president, graphics products group at advanced micro devices (amd), a provider of processing solutions, from november 2005 to april 2008. before joining amd, mr. peng served as vice president of silicon engineering in the graphics products group business unit at ati technologies, a graphics processor unit provider, from april 2005 until its acquisition by amd. before joining ati technologies, mr. peng served as vice president of engineering at tzero technologies, a fabless semiconductor company, from september 2004 to april 2005. from november 2000 to september 2004, mr. peng served as vice president of engineering at mips technologies, a semiconductor design ip company. vincent f. ratford joined the company in january 2006 as vice president of marketing, business development and silicon architecture. mr. ratford was promoted to vice president and general manager in october 2007. he was promoted to his current position of senior vice president, solutions development group in april 2008. prior to joining the company, he served as president and ceo of accelchip, inc. (accelchip), a provider of synthesis software tools for designing dsp systems, from july 2004 until its acquisition by xilinx in january 2006. prior to that, mr. ratford operated the consulting firm, deeptech consulting, from april 2002 to july 2004. mr. ratford worked at virage logic corporation, a provider of semiconductor ip, as vice president of marketing and business development from july 2000 to april 2002 and as vice president of sales and marketing from february 1998 to july 2000. before joining virage logic, mr. ratford served as chief operating officer of the microtec division of mentor graphics, a provider of hardware and software design solutions to semiconductor companies, from october 1995 to december 1997. before joining the microtec division, he was director of marketing for mentor graphics system design division from may 1993 to october 1995. frank a. tornaghi joined the company in february 2008 as vice president, worldwide sales and was promoted to his current position of senior vice president, worldwide sales in april 2008. prior to joining the company, mr. tornaghi spent 22 years at lsi corporation. mr. tornaghi acted as an independent consultant from april 2006 until he joined the company. he served as executive vice president, worldwide sales at lsi corporation from july 2001 to april 2006 and as vice president, north america sales, from may 1993 to july 2001. from 1984 until may 1993, mr. tornaghi held various management positions in sales at lsi corporation. additional information our internet address is www.xilinx.com. we make available, via a link through our investor relations website located at www.investor.xilinx.com, access to our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the u.s. securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (exchange act) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission (sec). all such filings on our investor relations website are available free of charge. printed copies of these documents are also available to stockholders without charge, upon written request directed to xilinx, inc., attn: investor relations, 2100 logic drive, san jose, ca 95124. further, a copy of this annual report on form 10-k is located at the sec public reference room at 450 fifth street, nw, washington, d.c. 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room can be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings at http://www.sec.gov. the content on any website referred to in this filing is not incorporated by reference into this filing unless expressly noted otherwise. 10 additional information required by this item 1 is incorporated by reference to the section captioned net revenues net revenues by geography in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and to note 14 to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. this annual report includes trademarks and service marks of xilinx and other companies that are unregistered and registered in the united states and other countries. item 1a. risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks to the company. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or that the company management currently deems immaterial also may impair its business operations. if any of the risks described below were to occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. the semiconductor industry is characterized by cyclical market patterns and a significant industry downturn could adversely affect our operating results . the semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and our financial performance has been affected by downturns in the industry. the down cycles are generally characterized by price erosion and weaker demand for our products. weaker demand for our products resulting from economic conditions in the end markets we serve and reduced capital spending by our customers can result in excess and obsolete inventories and corresponding inventory write-downs. we attempt to identify changes in market conditions as soon as possible; however, the dynamics of the market make prediction of and timely reaction to such events difficult. due to these and other factors, our past results are much less reliable predictors of the future than with companies in older, more stable industries. the nature of our business makes our revenues difficult to predict which could have an adverse impact on our business. in addition to the challenging market conditions we may face, we have limited visibility into the demand for our products, particularly new products, because demand for our products depends upon our products being designed into our end customer products and those products achieving market acceptance. due to the complexity of our products, the design to production process requires a substantial amount of time, frequently longer than a year. in addition, we are increasingly dependent upon turns, orders received and turned for shipment in the same quarter and we have historically derived a significant portion of our quarterly revenue during the last weeks of the quarter. these factors make it difficult for us to forecast future sales and project quarterly revenues. the difficulty in forecasting future sales impairs our ability to project our inventory requirements, which could result in inventory write-downs or failure to meet customer requirements. in addition, difficulty in forecasting revenues compromises our ability to provide forward-looking revenue and earnings guidance. global economic conditions, the economic conditions of the countries in which we operate and currency fluctuations could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from international sales. international sales accounted for approximately 61% of our net revenues in fiscal 2008, and 60% and 59% of our net revenues in fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively. we also have significant international operations, including foreign sales offices to support our international customers and distributors and our regional headquarters in ireland and singapore. sales and operations outside of the u.s. subject us to the risks associated with conducting business in foreign economic and regulatory environments. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in countries in which we do significant business or by changes in foreign currency exchange rates affecting those countries. for example, we have sales and operations in the asia pacific region, japan and europe. past economic weakness in these markets adversely affected revenues, and such conditions may occur in the future. sales to all direct oems and distributors are denominated in u.s. dollars. while the recent movement of the euro and yen against the u.s. dollar had no material impact to our business, increased volatility could impact our european and japanese customers. currency instability may increase credit risks for some of our customers and may impair our customers' ability to repay existing obligations. increased currency volatility could also positively or negatively impact our foreign currency denominated costs, assets and liabilities. furthermore, because we are increasingly dependent on the global economy, instability in worldwide economic environments occasioned, for example, by political instability, terrorist activity or u.s. military actions could impact economic activity and lead to a contraction of capital spending by our customers. any or all of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. 11 we are subject to the risks associated with conducting business operations outside of the u.s. which could adversely affect our business. in addition to international sales and support operations, we purchase our wafers from foreign foundries and have our commercial products assembled, packaged and tested by subcontractors located outside the u.s. all of these activities are subject to the uncertainties associated with international business operations, including tax laws and regulations, trade barriers, economic sanctions, import and export regulations, duties and tariffs and other trade restrictions, changes in trade policies, other foreign governmental regulations, reduced protection for ip, longer receivable collection periods and disruptions or delays in production or shipments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. additional factors that could adversely affect us due to our international operations include rising oil prices and increased costs of natural resources. moreover, our financial condition and results of operations could be affected in the event of political conflicts or economic crises in countries where our main wafer providers, end customers and contract manufacturers who provide assembly and test services worldwide, are located. adverse change to the circumstances or conditions of our international business operations could have a material adverse effect on our business. our success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products and failure to do so would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. our success depends in large part on our ability to develop and introduce new products that address customer requirements and compete effectively on the basis of price, density, functionality, power consumption and performance. the success of new product introductions is dependent upon several factors, including: timely completion of new product designs; ability to generate new design opportunities or design wins ; availability of specialized field application engineering resources supporting demand creation and customer adoption of new products; ability to utilize advanced manufacturing process technologies on circuit geometries of 65nm and smaller; achieving acceptable yields; ability to obtain adequate production capacity from our wafer foundries and assembly subcontractors; ability to obtain advanced packaging; availability of supporting software design tools; utilization of predefined ip cores of logic; customer acceptance of advanced features in our new products; and successful deployment of electronic systems by our customers. our product development efforts may not be successful, our new products may not achieve industry acceptance and we may not achieve the necessary volume of production that would lead to further per unit cost reductions. revenues relating to our mature products are expected to decline in the future, which is normal for our product life cycles. as a result, we may be increasingly dependent on revenues derived from design wins for our newer products as well as anticipated cost reductions in the manufacture of our current products. we rely primarily on obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture of existing products and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and other price/performance factors that enable us to increase revenues while maintaining consistent margins. to the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner, or to the extent that our products do not achieve market acceptance at prices with higher margins, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we are dependent on independent foundries for the manufacture of all of our products and a manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could adversely affect our operations. during fiscal 2008, nearly all of our wafers were manufactured either in taiwan, by umc or in japan, by toshiba or seiko. terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations between xilinx and these wafer foundries, which usually result in short-term agreements that do not provide for long-term supply or allocation commitments. we are dependent on these foundries, especially umc, which supplies the substantial majority of our wafers. we rely on umc to produce wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes. these attributes include an ability to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies and increased wafer sizes, produce wafers at acceptable yields, and deliver them in a timely manner. we cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our wafers will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies or difficulties due to limitations of new and 12 existing process technologies. furthermore, we cannot guarantee our foundries will be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products. any manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could disrupt our operations. we have established other sources of wafer supply for our products in an effort to secure a continued supply of wafers. however, establishing, maintaining and managing multiple foundry relationships requires the investment of management resources as well as additional costs. if we do not manage these relationships effectively, it could adversely affect our results of operations. increased costs of wafers and materials, or shortages in wafers and materials, could adversely impact our gross margins and lead to reduced revenues. if greater demand for wafers produced by the foundries is not offset by an increase in foundry capacity, or market demand for wafers or production and assembly materials increases, our supply of wafers and other materials could become limited. such shortages raise the likelihood of potential wafer price increases and wafer shortages or shortages in materials at our production and test facilities. such increases in wafer prices or materials could adversely affect our gross margins and shortages of wafers and materials would adversely affect our ability to meet customer demands. earthquakes and other natural disasters could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. the independent foundries, upon which we rely to manufacture our products, as well as our california and singapore facilities, are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. umc foundries in taiwan and toshiba and seiko foundries in japan as well as many of our operations in california are centered in areas that have been seismically active in the recent past and some areas have been affected by other natural disasters. any catastrophic event in these locations will disrupt our operations, including our manufacturing activities. this type of disruption could result in our inability to manufacture or ship products, thereby materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, disruption of operations at these foundries for any reason, including other natural disasters such as typhoons, fires or floods, as well as disruptions in access to adequate supplies of electricity, natural gas or water could cause delays in shipments of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we are dependent on independent subcontractors for most of our assembly and test services and unavailability or disruption of these services could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. we are also dependent on subcontractors to provide semiconductor assembly, substrate, test and shipment services. any prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, any disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands. these factors would result in reduced net revenues and could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. if we are not able to successfully compete in our industry, our financial results and future prospects will be adversely affected. our plds compete in the logic ic industry, an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion. we expect increased competition from our primary pld competitors, altera corporation, lattice semiconductor corporation and actel corporation, from the asic market, which has been ongoing since the inception of fpgas, from the assp market, and from new companies that may enter the traditional programmable logic market segment. we believe that important competitive factors in the logic industry include: product pricing; time-to-market; product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density; field upgradability; adaptability of products to specific applications; ease of use and functionality of software design tools; availability and functionality of predefined ip cores of logic; inventory management; access to leading-edge process technology and assembly capacity; and ability to provide timely customer service and support. 13 our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high-volume, low-cost and low-power applications as well as high-performance, high-density applications. in addition, we anticipate continued price reductions proportionate with our ability to lower the cost for established products. however, we may not be successful in achieving these strategies. other competitors include manufacturers of: high-density programmable logic products characterized by fpga-type architectures; high-volume and low-cost fpgas as programmable replacements for asics and assps; asics and assps with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; high-speed, low-density cplds; high-performance dsp devices; products with embedded processors; products with embedded multi-gigabit transceivers; and other new or emerging programmable logic products. several companies have introduced products that compete with ours or have announced their intention to enter the pld market segment. to the extent that our efforts to compete are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the benefits of programmable logic have attracted a number of competitors to the market segment. we recognize that different applications require different programmable technologies, and we are developing architectures, processes and products to meet these varying customer needs. recognizing the increasing importance of standard software solutions, we have developed common software design tools that support the full range of our ic products. we believe that automation and ease of design are significant competitive factors in the pld market segment. we could also face competition from our licensees. in the past we have granted limited rights to other companies with respect to certain of our older technology, and we may do so in the future. granting such rights may enable these companies to manufacture and market products that may be competitive with some of our older products. our failure to protect and defend our intellectual properly could impair our ability to compete effectively. we rely upon patent, copyright, trade secret, mask work and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property. we cannot provide assurance that such intellectual property rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. from time to time, third parties, including our competitors, have asserted against us patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to us. third parties may assert infringement claims against our indemnitees or us in the future. assertions by third parties may result in costly litigation or indemnity claims and we may not prevail in such matters or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. any infringement claim, indemnification claim, or impairment or loss of use of our intellectual property could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. considerable amounts of our common shares are available for issuance under our equity incentive plans and debentures, and significant issuances in the future may adversely impact the market price of our common shares. as of march 29, 2008, we had 2.00 billion authorized common shares, of which 280.5 million shares were outstanding. in addition, 68.9 million common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to our equity incentive plans and 1990 employee qualified stock purchase plan (employee stock purchase plan), and 32.1 million shares were reserved for issuance upon conversion or repurchase of the 3.125% convertible debentures due march 15, 2037 (debentures). the availability of substantial amounts of our common shares resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity incentive plans or the conversion or repurchase of debentures using common shares, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. we rely on information technology systems, and failure of these systems to function properly could result in business disruption. we rely in part on various information technology (it) systems to manage our operations including financial reporting and we regularly evaluate these systems and make changes to improve them as necessary. consequently, we periodically implement new, or enhance existing, operational and it systems, procedures and controls. any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to record and 14 report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. further, these systems are subject to power and telecommunication outages or other general system failure. failure of our it systems or difficulties in managing them could result in business disruption. if we do not successfully manage the transitions associated with our new management, our ability to compete could be adversely affected. on january 7, 2008, we announced the appointment of moshe n. gavrielov as our new president and ceo concurrent with the retirement of willem p. roelandts from these positions. our new ceo has made organizational changes, including changes to our management team and may make future changes to our company structure. it is important for us to successfully manage these transitions as our failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls, our stock price could be adversely affected. we are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (the act). our controls necessary for continued compliance with the act may not operate effectively at all times and may result in a material weakness disclosure. the identification of material weaknesses in internal control, if any, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements and could cause investors to lose confidence and our stock price to drop. further, our internal control effectiveness may be impacted if we are unable to retain sufficient skilled finance and accounting personnel, especially in light of the increased demand for such personnel among publicly traded companies. unfavorable results of legal proceedings could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. from time to time we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business. certain claims are not yet resolved, including those that are discussed in item 3, "legal proceedings," and additional claims may arise in the future. results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. regardless of its merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention and we may enter into material settlements to avoid these risks. should the company fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against us in the same reporting period, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that would materially and adversely affect a portion of our business and might materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and changes in credit rating and in the market values of our portfolio investments which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. our cash, short-term and long-term investments represent significant assets that may be subject to fluctuating and even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements and financial market conditions. since september 2007, the global credit markets have experienced adverse conditions due to the increased concerns related to the u.s. sub-prime mortgage market that have negatively impacted the values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities. as of march 29, 2008, approximately 4% of our investment portfolio consisted of aaa-rated auction rate securities which are secured primarily by pools of student loans originated under the federal family education loan program (ffelp) that are guaranteed by the u. s. department of education. these securities experienced failed auctions in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 due to liquidity issues in the global credit markets. in a failed auction, the interest rates are reset to a maximum rate defined by the contractual terms for each security. we have collected and expect to collect all interest payable on these securities when due. as of march 29, 2008, the securities were reclassified from short-term to long-term investments on the consolidated balance sheet to reflect the securities final maturity dates since there can be no assurance of a successful auction in the future. the auction rate securities described above are a type of asset-backed securities. all other asset-backed securities comprised less than 5% of our investment portfolio as of march 29, 2008 and were all aaa rated with the exception of approximately $37.0 million of asset-backed securities that were downgraded in april 2008 to aa or a rating. these asset-backed securities are secured primarily by bank, finance and insurance company obligations, collateralized loan and bank obligations, mortgage-backed securities with no direct sub-prime exposure and credit card debt. substantially all of the other mortgage-backed securities in the investment portfolio are aaa rated, were issued by u.s. government-sponsored enterprises and agencies and represented less than 9% of the portfolio as of march 29, 2008. as a result of these recent adverse conditions in the global credit markets, there is a risk that we may incur other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments such as asset-backed securities should the credit markets experience further deterioration. our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair values of our debt and equity securities is judged to be other-than-temporary. furthermore, we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or financial market conditions. please see note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, for additional information about our investments. 15 our products could have quality problems which could result in reduced revenues and claims against us. we develop complex and evolving products that include both hardware and software. despite our testing efforts and those of our subcontractors, defects may be found in existing or new products. these defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair or replacement costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with customers. product defects or other performance problems could result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and would likely harm our business. our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. a product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly to defend. product liability risks are particularly significant with respect to aerospace, automotive and medical applications because of the risk of serious harm to users of these products. any product liability claim, whether or not determined in our favor, could result in significant expense, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and harm our business. in preparing our financial statements, we make good faith estimates and judgments that may change or turn out to be erroneous. in preparing our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states, we must make estimates and judgments in applying our most critical accounting policies. those estimates and judgments have a significant impact on the results we report in our consolidated financial statements. the most difficult estimates and subjective judgments that we make concern valuation of marketable and non-marketable securities, revenue recognition, inventories, long-lived assets, taxes, legal matters and stock-based compensation. we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. we also have other key accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult, but which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial reporting. actual results may differ materially from these estimates. if these estimates or their related assumptions change, our operating results for the periods in which we revise our estimates or assumptions could be adversely and perhaps materially affected. we depend on distributors, primarily avnet, to generate a majority of our sales and complete order fulfillment. we rely on distributors throughout the world to assist us in demand creation, technical support, order processing and order fulfillment. resale of product through avnet accounted for 61% of the company worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2008 and as of march 29, 2008, avnet accounted for 83% of our accounts receivable. if a key distributor such as avnet materially defaults on a contract or fails to perform, our business and financial results would suffer. reductions in the average selling prices of our products could have a negative impact on our gross margins. the average selling prices of our products generally decline as the products mature. we seek to offset the decrease in selling prices through yield improvement, manufacturing cost reductions and increased unit sales. however, there is no guarantee that our ongoing efforts will be successful or that they will keep pace with the decline in selling prices of our products, which could ultimately lead to a decline in revenues and have a negative effect on our gross margins. a number of factors can impact our gross margins. a number of factors, including our product mix, market acceptance of our new products, competitive pricing dynamics, geographic and/or market segment pricing strategies and various manufacturing cost variables cause our gross margins to fluctuate. in addition, forecasting our gross margins is difficult because the majority of our business is based on turns within the same quarter. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 35 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data 37 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and 68 financial disclosure item 9a. controls and procedures 68 item 9b. other information 68 part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance 69 item 11. executive compensation 69 item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management 69 and related stockholder matters item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence 71 item 14. principal accountant fees and services 71 part iv item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules 72 signatures 74 2 part i forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements may be found throughout this annual report and particularly in items 1. business and 3. legal proceedings which contain discussions concerning our development efforts, strategy, new product introductions, backlog and litigation. forward-looking statements involve numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed or implied. such risks include, but are not limited to, those discussed throughout this document as well as in item 1a. "risk factors." often, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words, such as may, will, could, should, expect, believe, anticipate, estimate, continue, plan, intend, project and other similar terminology, or the negative of such terms. we disclaim any responsibility to update or revise any forward-looking statement provided in this annual report or in any of our other communications for any reason. item 1. business xilinx, inc. (xilinx or the company) designs, develops and markets complete programmable logic solutions. these solutions have several components: advanced integrated circuits (ics) in the form of programmable logic devices (plds); software design tools to program the plds; predefined system functions delivered as intellectual property (ip) cores; design services; customer training; and field engineering and technical support. our plds include field programmable gate arrays (fpgas) and complex programmable logic devices (cplds) that our customers program to perform desired logic functions. our solutions are designed to provide high integration and quick time-to-market for electronic equipment manufacturers in end markets such as wired and wireless communications, industrial, scientific and medical, test and measurement, aerospace and defense, audio, video and broadcast, consumer, automotive and data processing. we sell our products globally through independent domestic and foreign distributors and through direct sales to original equipment manufacturers (oems) by a network of independent sales representative firms and by a direct sales management organization. xilinx was founded and incorporated in california in february 1984. in april 1990, the company reincorporated in delaware. our corporate facilities and executive offices are located at 2100 logic drive, san jose, california 95124, and our website address is www.xilinx.com. industry overview there are three principal types of ics used in most digital electronic systems: processors, which generally are utilized for control and computing tasks; memory devices, which are used for storing program instructions and data; and logic devices, which generally are used to manage the interchange and manipulation of digital signals within a system. xilinx develops plds, a type of logic device. alternatives to plds include custom gate arrays, application specific integrated circuits (asics) and application specific standard products (assps). these devices all compete with each other since they may be utilized in many of the same types of applications within electronic systems. however, variations in unit pricing, development cost, product performance, reliability, power consumption, density, functionality, ease of use and time-to-market determine the degree to which the devices compete for specific applications. the primary advantage plds have over custom gate arrays, asics and assps is that plds enable faster time-to-market because of their shorter design cycles. users can program the pld to implement their design, using software to create and revise their designs relatively quickly with lower development costs. plds typically have a larger die size resulting in higher costs per unit compared to custom gate arrays, asics and assps, which are customized to perform a limited fixed function. custom gate arrays, asics and assps, however, generally offer less flexibility, require longer fabrication lead times and higher up-front costs than plds. plds are standard components. this means that the same device type can be sold to many different users for many different applications. as a result, the development cost of plds can be spread over a large number of users. custom gate arrays, asics and assps, on the other hand, are custom chips for an individual user for use in a specific application. assps implement specific functions for a limited set of users. this involves a high up-front cost to users. technology advances are enabling pld companies to reduce costs considerably, making plds an increasingly attractive alternative to custom gate arrays, asics and assps. 3 an overview of typical pld end market applications for our products is shown in the following table: end markets sub-segments applications communications wireless 3g/4g cellular base stations wimax/lte base stations wireless backhaul wireline metro area networks fttx-passive optical networks digital subscriber line access multiplexers (dslams) and cable modem termination systems (cmts) multi-service provisioning platforms (mspps) enterprise switches mid-end and high-end routers consumer, automotive, consumer video display systems, industrial and other lcd/pdp televisions digital video recorders/set top boxes/iptv smart handhelds industrial, scientific and factory automation medical medical imaging test and measurement equipment audio, video and broadcast cable head-end systems production switchers cameras automotive automotive infotainment gps navigation systems rear seat entertainment aerospace and defense satellite surveillance radar and sonar systems secure communications data processing storage security and encryption network attached storage servers high-end servers computer peripherals office automation copiers printers products integral to the success of our business is the timely introduction of new products that meet customer requirements and compete effectively with respect to price, functionality and performance. software design tools, ip cores, technical support and design services are also critical components that enable our customers to implement their design specifications into our plds. altogether, our plds and related ip, service and support form a comprehensive programmable logic solution. a brief overview of our pld offerings follows and is not all-inclusive but does comprise the majority of our 4 revenues. some of our more mature product families have been excluded from the table although they continue to generate revenues. we operate and track our results in one operating segment for financial reporting purposes. product families process fpgas date introduced densities technology voltage 20k to 330k virtex -5 may 2006 logic cells 65nm 1.0v 12k to 200k virtex-4 june 2004 logic cells 90nm 1.2v 3k to 99k virtex-ii pro march 2002 logic cells 130nm 1.5v 576 to 104k virtex-ii january 2001 logic cells 150nm 1.5v 1.7k to 73k virtex-e september 1999 logic cells 180nm 1.8v 1.6k to 54k spartan -3a december 2006 logic cells 90nm 1.2v 2.2k to 33.2k spartan-3e march 2005 logic cells 90nm 1.2v 1.7k to 75k logic spartan-3 april 2003 cells 90nm 1.2v 1.7k to 16k logic spartan-iie november 2001 cells 150nm 1.8v 432 to 5.3k spartan-ii january 2000 logic cells 180nm 2.5v process cplds date introduced densities technology voltage 32 to 512 coolrunner -ii january 2002 macrocells 180nm 1.8v 32 to 512 coolrunner august 1999 macrocells 350nm 3.3v 36 to 288 xc9500xl september 1998 macrocells 350nm 3.3v virtex fpgas the virtex-5 fpga family consists of 24 devices and is the latest generation virtex family and the pld industry first product family manufactured using 65-nanometer (nm) process technology. the virtex-5 family consists of four platforms: virtex-5 lx fpgas for logic-intensive designs, virtex-5 lxt fpgas for high-performance logic with serial connectivity, virtex-5 sxt fpgas for high-performance digital signal processing (dsp) with serial connectivity and virtex-5 fxt fpgas for embedded processing with serial connectivity. within each platform are a number of offerings, differing primarily in the amount of logic, memory, clock and input/output (i/o) resources provided. these offerings enable customers to select the optimal mix of resources for their particular application. currently, xilinx is shipping devices from all platforms. compared to previous 90-nm virtex family products, this product family offers increased performance, density and features, while reducing dynamic power consumption. the 17-device virtex-4 fpga family consists of three platforms: lx, sx and fx. virtex-4 lx fpgas are optimized for logic-intensive designs, virtex-4 sx fpgas are optimized for high-performance dsp, and virtex-4 fx fpgas are optimized for embedded processing with serial connectivity. virtex-4 devices are produced on 90-nm process technology. prior generation virtex families include virtex-ii pro, virtex-ii, virtex-e and the original virtex family. 5 spartan fpgas the spartan-3 generation fpgas were the pld industry first 90-nm fpgas and were developed as a programmable alternative to asics for new applications in high growth end markets such as consumer, automotive and low cost networking. the spartan-3 generation is comprised of three primary platforms including the original spartan-3 family, the spartan-3e family, and the spartan-3a family. the spartan-3e family consists of five devices and is optimized to deliver the lowest cost per logic cell. the spartan-3a family consists of 14 devices and is optimized to deliver the lowest cost per i/o. in addition, this family has devices targeted for cost sensitive, high performance signal processing applications and nonvolatile devices optimized for cost sensitive applications where security and board space are customer priorities. prior generation spartan families include spartan-iie, spartan-ii, spartan xl and the original spartan family. easypath fpgas easypath fpgas use the same production masks and fabrication process as standard fpgas and are tested to a specific customer application to improve yield and lower costs. as a result, easypath fpgas provide customers with significant cost reduction when compared to the standard fpga devices without the conversion risk, conversion engineering effort or the additional time required to move to an asic. easypath fpgas are available for the higher density devices of the virtex-ii, virtex-ii pro and virtex-4 families. easypath fpgas will also be available for the higher densities of the virtex-5 families. customers purchasing easypath fpgas must meet certain minimum order requirements and pay a custom test generation charge. cplds cplds operate on the low end of the programmable logic density spectrum. cplds are single chip, nonvolatile solutions characterized by instant-on and universal interconnect. the coolrunner-ii family is the latest generation xilinx cpld family with six devices in production. coolrunner-ii cplds combine the advantages of ultra low power consumption with the benefits of high performance and low cost. while coolrunner-ii is suitable for a wide variety of end markets and applications, the ultra low power consumption and small package profiles of these devices have led to their acceptance in the growing portable consumer electronics marketplace. the coolrunner xpla3 family was the first cpld product to combine very low power consumption with high density logic and high i/o counts in a single device. this family consists of six devices. prior generation cpld families include the xc9500, xc9500xl and xc9500xv which offer low cost, high performance and in-system programmability for 5.0-volt, 3.3-volt and 2.5-volt systems, respectively. these families are widely used in communications and industrial applications. support products software solutions we offer complete software solutions that enable customers to implement their design specifications into our plds. these software design tools combine a powerful technology with a flexible, easy-to-use graphical interface to help achieve the best possible designs within each customer project schedule, enabling use by designers with varying experience levels. our software design tools operate on personal computers running microsoft windows vista, xp and linux operating systems. the xilinx ise (integrated software environment) design suite fits a wide range of customer needs. ise software also integrates with a wide range of third-party electronic design automation (eda) software offerings and point-tool solutions to deliver the most flexible design environment available. all xilinx fpga and cpld device families are supported by ise software, including the newest virtex, spartan and coolrunner device families. processing solutions xilinx offerings in the areas of dsp and embedded processing are aimed at solving system level problems of existing and non-traditional users such as system architects and software engineers. embedded processing solutions enable new growth 6 for xilinx beyond the pld market segment by building and delivering a configurable processing platform, tools, and ip for specific vertical markets. configuration solutions xilinx offers a range of one-time programmable and in-system programmable storage devices to configure xilinx fpgas. the platformflash prom (programmable read only memory) family is our newest offering. this family ranges in density from 1 to 128 megabits and offers full in-system programmability at the lowest cost per megabit of any xilinx configuration solution. older solutions include our xc1700 family (one-time programmable with density up to 16 megabits), and the xc1800 family (in-system programmable with density up to 4 megabits). our prom solutions support all of our fpga devices. global services to extend our customers technical capabilities and shorten their design times, we offer a portfolio of global services, which includes education, design and support services. in addition, we offer a personalized online technical resource, www.mysupport.xilinx.com. please see information under the caption results of operations net revenues in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for information about our revenues from our product families. research and development our research and development (r&amp;d) activities are primarily directed towards the design of new ics, the development of new software design automation tools for hardware and embedded software, the design of ip cores of logic and the adoption of advanced semiconductor manufacturing processes for ongoing cost reductions, performance and signal integrity improvements and lowering power consumption. as a result of our r&amp;d efforts, we have introduced a number of new products during the past years including the virtex-5 and virtex-4 series of fpgas, and the spartan-3 fpga series. additionally, we have made major enhancements to our ip core offerings and introduced new versions of our ise software. to support embedded processing and dsp design on our platform fpga devices, the platform studio tool suite and system generator for dsp have been further enhanced. we extended our collaboration with our foundry suppliers in the development of 90-nm and 65-nm complementary metal oxide semiconductor (cmos) manufacturing technology and we are the first company in the pld industry to ship 65-nm devices. our r&amp;d challenge is to continue to develop new products that create cost-effective solutions for customers. in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, our r&amp;d expenses were $358.1 million, $388.1 million and $326.1 million, respectively. we believe technical leadership and innovation are essential to our future success and we are committed to continuing a significant level of r&amp;d effort. sales and distribution we sell our products to oems and to electronic components distributors who resell these products to oems or subcontract manufacturers. we use dedicated global sales and marketing organizations as well as independent sales representatives to generate sales. in general, we focus our direct demand creation efforts on a limited number of key accounts with independent sales representatives often addressing those customers in defined territories. distributors create demand within the balance of our customer base. distributors also provide vendor-managed inventory, value-added services and logistics for a wide range of our oem customers. whether xilinx, the independent sales representative, or the distributor identifies the sales opportunity, a local distributor will process and fulfill the majority of all customer orders. in such situations, distributors are the sellers of the products and as such they bear all legal and financial risks generally related to the sale of commercial goods, such as credit loss, inventory shrinkage and theft, as well as foreign currency fluctuations, but excluding indemnity and warranty liability. in accordance with our distribution agreements and industry practice, we have granted the distributors the contractual right to return certain amounts of unsold product on a periodic basis and also receive price adjustments for unsold product in the case of a subsequent change in list prices. revenue recognition on shipments to distributors worldwide is deferred until the products are sold to the distributors end customers. 7 avnet, inc. (avnet) distributes the substantial majority of our products worldwide. no end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 or 2006. as of march 29, 2008 and march 31, 2007, avnet accounted for 83% and 86% of the company total accounts receivable, respectively. resale of product through avnet accounted for 61%, 67% and 70% of the company worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. we also use other regional distributors throughout the world. from time to time, we may add or terminate distributors in specific geographies, as we deem appropriate given the level of business and their performance. we believe distributors provide a cost-effective means of reaching a broad range of customers while providing efficient logistics services. since plds are standard products, they do not present many of the inventory risks to distributors posed by custom gate arrays, and they simplify the requirements for distributor technical support. see note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our investment portfolio, which consists of fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $1.50 billion at march 29, 2008. our primary aim with our investment portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal and meeting liquidity needs. the portfolio includes municipal bonds, floating rate notes, mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities, bank certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate bonds, auction rate securities and u.s. and foreign government and agency securities. in accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer based upon the issuer credit rating. these securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. a hypothetical 100 basis-point (one percentage point) increase or decrease in interest rates compared to rates at march 29, 2008 and march 31, 2007 would have affected the fair value of our investment portfolio by less than $9.0 million and $8.0 million, respectively. credit market risk since september 2007, the global credit markets have experienced adverse conditions due to the increased concerns related to the u.s. sub-prime mortgage market that have spread to other sectors of the u.s. economy. this has negatively impacted the values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities. as a result of these recent adverse conditions in the global credit markets, there is a risk that the company may incur other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments such as asset-backed securities should the credit markets experience further deterioration. please see note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, included inrisk factors 12 item 1b. unresolved staff comments 18 item 2. properties 18 item 3. legal proceedings 18 item 4. submission of matters to a vote of security holders 19 part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and 20 issuer purchases of equity securities item 6. selected financial data 22 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results 23 of operations item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 37 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data 39 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and 74 financial disclosure item 9a. controls and procedures 74 item 9b. other information 74 part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance 75 item 11. executive compensation 75 item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management 75 and related stockholder matters item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence 77 item 14. principal accountant fees and services 77 part iv item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules 78 signatures 80 2 part i forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements may be found throughout this annual report and particularly in items 1. business and 3. legal proceedings which contain discussions concerning our development efforts, strategy, new product introductions, backlog and litigation. forward-looking statements involve numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed or implied. such risks include, but are not limited to, those discussed throughout this document as well as in item 1a. "risk factors." often, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words, such as may, will, could, should, expect, believe, anticipate, estimate, continue, plan, intend, project and other similar terminology, or the negative of such terms. we disclaim any responsibility to update or revise any forward-looking statement provided in this annual report or in any of our other communications for any reason. item 1. business xilinx, inc. (xilinx or the company) designs, develops and markets complete programmable logic solutions. these solutions have several components: advanced integrated circuits (ics) in the form of programmable logic devices (plds); software design tools to program the plds; predefined system functions delivered as intellectual property (ip) cores; design services; customer training; and field engineering and technical support. our plds include field programmable gate arrays (fpgas) and complex programmable logic devices (cplds) that our customers program to perform desired logic functions. our solutions are designed to provide high integration and quick time-to-market for electronic equipment manufacturers in end markets such as wired and wireless communications, industrial, scientific and medical, aerospace and defense, audio, video and broadcast, consumer, automotive and data processing. we sell our products globally through independent domestic and foreign distributors and through direct sales to original equipment manufacturers (oems) by a network of independent sales representative firms and by a direct sales management organization. xilinx was founded and incorporated in california in february 1984. in april 1990, the company reincorporated in delaware. our corporate facilities and executive offices are located at 2100 logic drive, san jose, california 95124, and our website address is www.xilinx.com. industry overview there are three principal types of ics used in most digital electronic systems: processors, which generally are utilized for control and computing tasks; memory devices, which are used for storing program instructions and data; and logic devices, which generally are used to manage the interchange and manipulation of digital signals within a system. xilinx develops plds, a type of logic device. alternatives to plds include custom gate arrays, application specific integrated circuits (asics) and application specific standard products (assps). these devices all compete with each other since they may be utilized in many of the same types of applications within electronic systems. however, variations in unit pricing, development cost, product performance, reliability, power consumption, density, functionality, ease of use and time-to-market determine the degree to which the devices compete for specific applications. the primary advantage plds have over custom gate arrays, asics and assps is that plds enable faster time-to-market because of their shorter design cycles. users can program the pld to implement their design, using software to create and revise their designs relatively quickly with lower development costs. plds typically have a larger die size resulting in higher costs per unit compared to custom gate arrays, asics and assps, which are customized to perform a limited fixed function. custom gate arrays, asics and assps, however, generally offer less flexibility, require longer design cycles and higher up-front costs than plds. plds are standard components. this means that the same device type can be sold to many different users for many different applications. as a result, the development cost of plds can be spread over a large number of users. custom gate arrays, asics and assps, on the other hand, are custom chips for an individual user for use in a specific application. assps implement specific functions for a limited set of users. this involves a high up-front cost to users. technology advances are enabling pld companies to reduce costs considerably, making plds an increasingly attractive alternative to custom gate arrays, asics and assps. 3 an overview of typical pld end market applications for our products is shown in the following table: end markets sub-segments applications communications wireless 3g/4g base stations wireless backhaul wireline metro area networks optical networks enterprise switches mid-end and high-end routers consumer, automotive, industrial and other consumer flat-panel televisions digital video recorders cable set-top boxes automotive gps navigation systems rear-seat entertainment vision-based driver assistance systems industrial, scientific and medical factory automation medical imaging test and measurement equipment audio, video and broadcast cable head-end systems broadcast equipment video cameras aerospace and defense satellite surveillance radar and sonar systems secure communications data processing storage and servers security and encryption computer peripherals office automation copiers printers products integral to the success of our business is the timely introduction of new products that meet customer requirements and compete effectively with respect to price, functionality, power and performance. software design tools, ip cores, reference platforms, technical support and design services are also critical components that enable our customers to implement their design specifications into our plds. altogether, our plds and related tools, ip, service and support form a comprehensive programmable logic solution. a brief overview of our pld offerings follows and is not all-inclusive but does comprise the majority of our revenues. some of our more mature product families have been excluded from the table although they continue to generate revenues. we operate and track our results in one operating segment for financial reporting purposes. 4 product families process fpgas date introduced densities technology voltage 75k to 760k virtex -6 february 2009 logic cells 40-nanometer (nm) 1.0v, 0.9v 20k to 330k virtex-5 may 2006 logic cells 65nm 1.0v 12k to 200k virtex-4 june 2004 logic cells 90nm 1.2v 3k to 99k virtex-ii pro march 2002 logic cells 130nm 1.5v 576 to 104k virtex-ii january 2001 logic cells 150nm 1.5v 1.7k to 73k virtex-e september 1999 logic cells 180nm 1.8v 4k to 150k logic spartan -6 february 2009 cells 45nm 1.2v, 1.0v 1.6k to 54k spartan-3a december 2006 logic cells 90nm 1.2v 2.2k to 33.2k spartan-3e march 2005 logic cells 90nm 1.2v 1.7k to 75k logic spartan-3 april 2003 cells 90nm 1.2v 1.7k to 16k logic spartan-iie november 2001 cells 150nm 1.8v process cplds date introduced densities technology voltage 32 to 512 coolrunner -ii january 2002 macrocells 180nm 1.8v 32 to 512 coolrunner august 1999 macrocells 350nm 3.3v virtex fpgas the virtex-6 fpga family consists of 13 devices and is the sixth generation in the virtex series of fpgas. virtex-6 fpgas are fabricated on a high-performance, 40-nm process technology. the virtex-6 family is comprised of three domain-optimized platforms to deliver different feature mixes to address a variety of markets as follows: lxt platform: for applications that require high-performance logic, digital signal processing (dsp), and serial connectivity; sxt platform: for applications that require ultra high-performance dsp and serial connectivity; hxt platform: for communications applications that require the highest-speed serial connectivity. the virtex-5 fpga family consists of 26 devices and five platforms: virtex-5 lx fpgas for logic-intensive designs, virtex-5 lxt fpgas for high-performance logic with serial connectivity, virtex-5 sxt fpgas for high-performance dsp with serial connectivity, virtex-5 fxt fpgas for embedded processing with serial connectivity and virtex-5 txt fpgas for high-bandwidth serial connectivity. prior generation virtex families include virtex-4, virtex-ii pro, virtex-ii, virtex-e and the original virtex family. 5 spartan fpgas the sixth generation in the spartan fpga series, the spartan-6 fpga family, is fabricated on a low-power 45-nm process technology. the spartan-6 family is the pld industry first 45-nm high-volume fpga family. the family consists of 11 devices and is delivered on two fpga platforms to address diverse market and application requirements as follows: lx platform: for applications that require cost-effective logic, memory and dsp; lxt platform: for applications that require lx features plus high-speed serial transceivers. spartan-3 fpgas were the pld industry first 90-nm fpgas and are comprised of three platforms including the original spartan-3 family, the spartan-3e family and the spartan-3a family. prior generation spartan families include spartan-iie, spartan-ii, spartan xl and the original spartan family. easypath fpgas easypath fpgas use the same production masks and fabrication process as standard fpgas and are tested to a specific customer application to improve yield and lower costs. as a result, easypath fpgas provide customers with significant cost reduction when compared to the standard fpga devices without the conversion risk, conversion engineering effort or the additional time required to move to an asic. easypath fpgas are available for the higher density devices of the virtex-ii pro, virtex-4 and virtex-5 families. easypath fpgas will also be available for the higher densities of the virtex-6 family. customers purchasing easypath fpgas must meet certain minimum order requirements and pay a custom test generation charge. cplds cplds operate on the low end of the programmable logic density spectrum. cplds are single chip, nonvolatile solutions characterized by instant-on and universal interconnect. the coolrunner-ii family is the latest generation xilinx cpld family with six devices in production. coolrunner-ii cplds combine the advantages of ultra low power consumption with the benefits of high performance and low cost. while coolrunner-ii is suitable for a wide variety of end markets and applications, the ultra low power consumption and small package profiles of these devices have led to their acceptance in the growing portable consumer electronics marketplace. prior generation cpld families include the coolrunner, xc9500 and xc9500xl, which offer low cost, high performance and in-system programmability for 5.0-volt and 3.3-volt systems, respectively. support products targeted design platforms we offer targeted design platforms comprised of reference designs, target boards, application software, design tools, ip and silicon to reduce our customers development effort. targeted design platforms are organized into three levels: the base platform; the domain-specific platform; and the market-specific platform to offer customers flexibility, accessibility, applicability and time-to-market. the base platform is the delivery vehicle for all new silicon offerings used to develop and run customer-specific software applications and hardware designs. released at launch, the base platform is comprised of: fpga silicon; ise (integrated software environment) design suite design environment; third-party synthesis, simulation, and signal integrity tools; reference designs; development boards and ip. the domain-specific platform targets one of the three primary xilinx fpga user profiles: the embedded processing developer; the dsp developer; or the logic/connectivity developer. it accomplishes this by augmenting the base platform with a targeted set of integrated technologies, including: higher-level design methodologies and tools; domain-specific ip including embedded, dsp and connectivity; domain-specific development hardware and reference designs; and operating systems and software. the market-specific platform enables software or hardware developers to quickly build and run their specific application or solution. built for specific markets such as automotive, consumer, aerospace and defense, communications, audio, video and broadcast, industrial, or scientific and medical, the market-specific platform integrates both the base and domain-specific platforms with higher targeted applications elements such as ip, reference designs and boards optimized for a particular market. 6 design environments to accommodate the various design methodologies and design flows employed by the wide range of our customers user profiles such as system designers, algorithm designers, software coders and logic designers, we provide the appropriate design environment tailored to each user profile for design creation, design implementation and design verification. the xilinx ise design suite features a complete tool chain for the three domain-specific categories: embedded, dsp and logic/connectivity. to further enhance productivity and help customers better manage the complexity of their designs, the ise design suite enables designers to target area, performance, or power by simply selecting a design goal in the setup. the xilinx ise design suite also integrates with a wide range of third-party electronic design automation (eda) software offerings and point-tools. intellectual property xilinx and various third parties offer hundreds of free and for-license ip components to meet timing parameters, including a host of widely used ip such as gige, ethernet, memory controllers, and pcie , as well as an abundance of domain-specific ip, such as embedded, dsp and connectivity, and market-specific ip. development boards, reference designs, kits and configuration products in addition to the broad selection of legacy development boards presently offered, we have introduced a new unified board strategy that enables the creation of a standardized and coordinated set of base boards available both from xilinx and our ecosystem partners, all utilizing the industry-standard extensions. adopting this standard for all of our base boards enables the creation of a unified, scalable and extensible delivery mechanism for all xilinx targeted design platforms. as a part of the targeted design platform support strategy, xilinx has also defined a new class of reference designs called the targeted reference designs that offer a consistent, robust framework that is scalable for customer modification and supported throughout the product lifecycle. we also offer comprehensive development kits including hardware, design tools, ip and reference designs that are designed to streamline and accelerate the development of domain-specific and market-specific applications. finally, xilinx offers a range of configuration products including one-time programmable and in-system programmable storage devices to configure xilinx fpgas. these prom (programmable read-only memory) products support all of our fpga devices. third-party ecosystem xilinx and certain third parties have developed and continue to offer a robust ecosystem of ip, boards, tools, services, and support through the xilinx alliance program. xilinx is also moving forward with these third parties to make targeted design platforms extensible through third-party tools, ip, software, boards, and design services, and leveraged in customer designs. global services xilinx engineering services and our third-party alliance member services enhance the substantial benefits of the targeted design platforms by allowing the customer to focus even more on their core competencies, realize additional time-to-market efficiencies and reduce their fixed engineering costs. these services provide customers with engineering resources to augment their design team and to provide expert design-specific advice. xilinx tailors its engineering services to the needs of its customer, ranging from hands-on training to full design creation and implementation. see information under the caption results of operations net revenues in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for information about our revenues from our product families. research and development our research and development (r&amp;d) activities are primarily directed towards the design of new ics, the development of new software design automation tools for hardware and embedded software, the design of logic ip cores, the adoption of advanced semiconductor manufacturing processes for ongoing cost reductions, performance and signal integrity improvements and the lowering of pld power consumption. as a result of our r&amp;d efforts, we have introduced a number of new products during the past several years including the virtex-6, virtex-5 and spartan-6 families. additionally, we have made enhancements to our ip core offerings and introduced new versions of our ise design suite. we extended our collaboration with our foundry suppliers in the development of 65-nm, 45-nm and 40-nm complementary metal oxide semiconductor (cmos) manufacturing technology and we were the first company in the pld industry to ship 65-nm and 45-nm high-volume fpga devices. 7 our r&amp;d challenge is to continue to develop new products that create cost-effective solutions for customers. in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, our r&amp;d expenses were $355.4 million, $358.1 million and $388.1 million, respectively. we believe technical leadership and innovation are essential to our future success and we are committed to maintaining a significant level of r&amp;d investment. sales and distribution we sell our products to oems and to electronic components distributors who resell these products to oems or contract manufacturers. we use dedicated global sales and marketing organizations as well as independent sales representatives to generate sales. in general, we focus our direct demand creation efforts on a limited number of key accounts with independent sales representatives often addressing those customers in defined territories. distributors create demand within the balance of our customer base. distributors also provide vendor-managed inventory, value-added services and logistics for a wide range of our oem customers. whether xilinx, the independent sales representative, or the distributor identifies the sales opportunity, a local distributor will process and fulfill the majority of all customer orders. in such situations, distributors are the sellers of the products and as such they bear all legal and financial risks generally related to the sale of commercial goods, such as credit loss, inventory shrinkage and theft, as well as foreign currency fluctuations, but excluding indemnity and warranty liability. in accordance with our distribution agreements and industry practice, we have granted the distributors the contractual right to return certain amounts of unsold product on a periodic basis and also receive price adjustments for unsold product in the case of a subsequent change in list prices. revenue recognition on shipments to distributors worldwide is deferred until the products are sold to the distributors end customers. avnet, inc. (avnet) distributes the substantial majority of our products worldwide. no end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 or 2007. as of march 28, 2009 and march 29, 2008, avnet accounted for 81% and 83% of the company total accounts receivable, respectively. resale of product through avnet accounted for 55%, 61% and 67% of the company worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. we also use other regional distributors throughout the world. from time to time, we may add or terminate distributors in specific geographies, as we deem appropriate given the level of business, their performance and financial condition. we believe distributors provide a cost-effective means of reaching a broad range of customers while providing efficient logistics services. since plds are standard products, they do not present many of the inventory risks to distributors posed by custom gate arrays, and they simplify the requirements for distributor technical support. see note 2. summary of significant accounting policies and concentrations of risk to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, for information about concentrations of credit risk and note 17. segment information for information about our revenues from external customers and domestic and international operations. backlog as of march 28, 2009, our backlog from oem customers and backlog from end customers reported by our distributors scheduled for delivery within the next three months was $162.0 million, compared to $202.0 million as of march 29, 2008. orders from end customers to our distributors are subject to changes in delivery schedules or to cancellation without significant penalty. as a result, backlogs from both oem customers and end customers reported by our distributors as of any particular period may not be a reliable indicator of revenue for any future period. wafer fabrication as a fabless semiconductor company, we do not manufacture wafers used for our ic products or proms. rather, we purchase wafers from multiple foundries including united microelectronics corporation (umc), toshiba corporation (toshiba), seiko epson corporation (seiko), samsung electronics co., ltd. and he jian technology (suzhou) co., ltd. currently, umc manufactures the substantial majority of our wafers. precise terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by our periodic negotiations with the wafer foundries. our strategy is to focus our resources on market development and creating new ics and software design tools rather than on wafer fabrication. we continuously evaluate opportunities to enhance foundry relationships and/or obtain additional capacity from our main suppliers as well as other suppliers of leading-edge process technologies. in september 1995, we entered into a joint venture with umc and other parties to construct a wafer fabrication facility in taiwan, known as united silicon inc. (usic). in january 2000, as a result of the merger of usic into umc, our equity position in usic was converted into shares of umc, which are publicly traded on the taiwan stock exchange. in fiscal 2007, we sold a portion of our umc shares and we sold the remaining shares of our umc investment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. 8 in fiscal 1997, we signed a wafer purchasing agreement with seiko. seiko manufactures wafers for some of our most mature product lines. in october 2004, the company entered into an advanced purchase agreement with toshiba under which the company paid toshiba a total of $100.0 million in two equal installments for advance payment of silicon wafers produced under the agreement. the original agreement was extended to december 2008. the balance of the advance payment remaining was zero as of march 28, 2009. sort, assembly and test wafers purchased are sorted by the foundry, independent sort subcontractors, or by xilinx. sorted die are assembled by subcontractors. during the assembly process, the wafers are separated into individual die, which are then assembled into various package types. following assembly, the packaged units are tested by xilinx personnel at our san jose, california, dublin, ireland or singapore facilities or by independent test subcontractors. we purchase most of our assembly and some of our testing services from siliconware precision industries ltd. in taiwan, amkor technology, inc. in korea and the philippines and stats chippac ltd. in singapore. quality certification xilinx has achieved quality management systems certification for iso 9001:2000 for our facilities in san jose, california, dublin, ireland, longmont, colorado, singapore and albuquerque, new mexico. in addition, xilinx achieved iso 14001, tl 9000 and ts 16949 environmental and quality certifications in the san jose, dublin and singapore locations, tl 9000 certifications in the longmont and albuquerque locations and ts 16949 certifications in the albuquerque and hyderabad, india locations. patents and licenses while our various proprietary intellectual property rights are important to our success, we believe our business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. as of march 28, 2009, we held more than 2,000 issued united states (u.s.) patents, which vary in duration, and over 750 pending u.s. patent applications relating to our proprietary technology. we maintain an active program of filing for additional patents in the areas of, but not limited to, circuits, software, ic architecture, system design, testing methodologies and other technologies relating to plds. we have licensed some parties to certain portions of our patent portfolio and obtained licenses to certain third-party patents as well. we have acquired various licenses from third parties to certain technologies that are implemented in ip cores or embedded in our plds, such as processors. those licenses support our continuing ability to make and sell these plds to our customers. we also sublicense certain third-party proprietary software and open-source software, such as compilers, for our design tools. continued use of those software components is important to the operation of the design tools upon which customers depend. we maintain the xilinx trade name as well as numerous trademarks and registered trademarks including xilinx, virtex, spartan, ise, and associated logos. maintaining these rights, and the goodwill associated with these trademarks and logos, is important to our business. we also have license rights to use certain trademarks owned by consortiums and other trademark owners that are related to our products and business. we intend to protect our intellectual property vigorously. we believe that failure to enforce our intellectual property rights (including, for example, patents, copyrights and trademarks) or failure to protect our trade secrets effectively could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in the future, we may incur potentially significant litigation expenses to defend against claims of infringement or to enforce our intellectual property rights against third parties. however, any such litigation may or may not be successful. employees as of march 28, 2009, we had 3,145 employees compared to 3,415 as of the end of the prior fiscal year. none of our employees are represented by a labor union. we have not experienced any work stoppages and believe we maintain good employee relations. competition our plds compete in the logic ic industry, an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion. we expect increased competition from our primary pld competitors, altera corporation (altera), lattice semiconductor corporation (lattice) and actel corporation (actel), from the asic market, which has been ongoing since the inception of fpgas, from the assp market, and from new companies that may enter the traditional programmable logic market segment. other competitors include manufacturers of: 9 high-density programmable logic products characterized by fpga-type architectures; high-volume and low-cost fpgas as programmable replacements for asics and assps; asics and assps with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; high-speed, low-density cplds; high-performance dsp devices; products with embedded processors; products with embedded multi-gigabit transceivers; and other new or emerging programmable logic products. we believe that important competitive factors in the logic ic industry include: product pricing; time-to-market; product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density; field upgradability; adaptability of products to specific applications; ease of use and functionality of software design tools; availability and functionality of predefined ip cores of logic; inventory management; access to leading-edge process technology and assembly capacity; and ability to provide timely customer service and support. our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high-volume, low-cost and low-power applications as well as high-performance, high-density applications. in addition, we anticipate continued price reductions proportionate with our ability to lower the cost for established products. we also recognize that different applications require different programmable technologies, and we are developing architectures, processes and products to meet these varying customer needs. to the extent that our efforts to compete are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. executive officers of the registrant certain information regarding the executive officers of xilinx as of june 1, 2009 is set forth below: name age position moshe n. gavrielov 54 president and chief executive officer (ceo) scott r. hover-smoot 54 vice president, general counsel and secretary jon a. olson 55 senior vice president, finance and chief financial officer (cfo) victor peng 49 senior vice president, programmable platforms development raja g. petrakian 45 senior vice president, worldwide operations vincent f. ratford 57 senior vice president, worldwide marketing vincent l. tong 47 senior vice president, worldwide quality and new product introductions frank a. tornaghi 54 senior vice president, worldwide sales there are no family relationships among the executive officers of the company or the board of directors. moshe n. gavrielov joined the company in january 2008 as president and ceo and was appointed to the board of directors in february 2008. prior to joining the company, he served at cadence design systems, inc., an electronic design automation company, as executive vice president and general manager of the verification division from april 2005 through november 2007. mr. gavrielov served as ceo of verisity ltd., an electronic design automation company, from march 1998 to april 2005 prior to its acquisition by cadence design systems, inc. prior to joining verisity, mr. gavrielov spent nearly 10 years at lsi corporation (formerly lsi logic corporation), a semiconductor manufacturer, in a variety of executive management positions, including executive vice president of the products group, senior vice president and general manager of international marketing and sales and senior vice president and general manager of lsi logic europe plc. prior to joining lsi corporation, mr. gavrielov held various engineering and engineering management positions at digital equipment corporation and national semiconductor corporation. scott r. hover-smoot joined the company in october 2007 as vice president, general counsel and secretary. from november 2001 to october 2007, mr. hover-smoot served as regional counsel and director of legal operations with taiwan semiconductor manufacturing company, ltd., an independent semiconductor foundry. he served as vice president and general counsel of california micro devices corporation, a provider of application-specific protection devices and display electronics devices from june 10 1994 to november 2001. prior to joining california micro devices corporation, mr. hover-smoot spent over 20 years working in law firms including berliner-cohen, flehr, hohbach, test, albritton &amp; herbert, and lyon &amp; lyon. jon a. olson joined the company in june 2005 as vice president, finance and cfo. mr. olson was promoted to his current position of senior vice president, finance and cfo in august 2006. prior to joining the company, mr. olson spent more than 25 years at intel corporation, a semiconductor chip maker, serving in a variety of positions, including vice president, finance and enterprise services, director of finance. victor peng joined the company in april 2008 as senior vice president, silicon engineering group and assumed his current position of senior vice president, programmable platforms development in november 2008. prior to joining the company, mr. peng served as corporate vice president, graphics products group at advanced micro devices (amd), a provider of processing solutions, from november 2005 to april 2008. before joining amd, mr. peng served as vice president of silicon engineering in the graphics products group business unit at ati technologies, a graphics processor unit provider, from april 2005 until its acquisition by amd. before joining ati technologies, mr. peng served as vice president of engineering at tzero technologies, a fabless semiconductor company, from september 2004 to april 2005. from november 2000 to september 2004, mr. peng served as vice president of engineering at mips technologies, a semiconductor design ip company. raja g. petrakian joined the company in october 1995 and has served in a number of key roles within operations, most recently as senior director of supply chain management and vice president of supply chain management. dr. petrakian was promoted to his current position of senior vice president, worldwide operations in march 2009. prior to joining xilinx, dr. petrakian spent more than three years at the ibm t.j. research center serving as a research staff member in the manufacturing research department. vincent f. ratford joined the company in january 2006 as vice president of marketing, business development and silicon architecture. mr. ratford was promoted to vice president and general manager in october 2007. he was promoted to senior vice president, solutions development group in april 2008 and assumed his current position of senior vice president, worldwide marketing in november 2008. prior to joining the company, he served as president and ceo of accelchip, inc. (accelchip), a provider of synthesis software tools for designing dsp systems, from july 2004 until its acquisition by xilinx in january 2006. prior to that, mr. ratford operated the consulting firm, deeptech consulting, from april 2002 to july 2004. mr. ratford worked at virage logic corporation, a provider of semiconductor ip, as vice president of marketing and business development from july 2000 to april 2002 and as vice president of sales and marketing from february 1998 to july 2000. before joining virage logic, mr. ratford served as chief operating officer of the microtec division of mentor graphics, a provider of hardware and software design solutions to semiconductor companies, from october 1995 to december 1997. before joining the microtec division, he was director of marketing for mentor graphics system design division from may 1993 to october 1995. vincent l. tong joined the company in may 1990 and has served in a number of key roles, most recently as vice president of product technology and as vice president, worldwide quality and reliability. in april 2008, he was promoted to his current position of senior vice president, worldwide quality and new product introductions. prior to joining the company, mr. tong served in a variety of engineering positions at monolithic memories, a producer of logic devices, and amd. mr. tong serves on the board of the global semiconductor alliance, a non-profit semiconductor organization. frank a. tornaghi joined the company in february 2008 as vice president, worldwide sales and was promoted to his current position of senior vice president, worldwide sales in april 2008. prior to joining the company, mr. tornaghi spent 22 years at lsi corporation. mr. tornaghi acted as an independent consultant from april 2006 until he joined the company. he served as executive vice president, worldwide sales at lsi corporation from july 2001 to april 2006 and as vice president, north america sales, from may 1993 to july 2001. from 1984 until may 1993, mr. tornaghi held various management positions in sales at lsi corporation. additional information our internet address is www.xilinx.com. we make available, via a link through our investor relations website located at www.investor.xilinx.com, access to our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the u.s. securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (exchange act) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission (sec). all such filings on our investor relations website are available free of charge. printed copies of these documents are also available to stockholders without charge, upon written request directed to xilinx, inc., attn: investor relations, 2100 logic drive, san jose, ca 95124. further, a copy of this annual report on form 10-k is located at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., room 1580, washington, d.c. 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room can be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings at http://www.sec.gov. the content on any website referred to in this filing is not incorporated by reference into this filing unless expressly noted otherwise. 11 additional information required by this item 1 is incorporated by reference to the section captioned net revenues net revenues by geography in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and to note 17. segment information to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. this annual report includes trademarks and service marks of xilinx and other companies that are unregistered and registered in the united states and other countries. item 1a. risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks to the company. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or that the company management currently deems immaterial also may impair its business operations. if any of the risks described below were to occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. general economic conditions and the related deterioration in the global business environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. global consumer confidence has eroded amidst concerns over declining asset values, inflation, volatility in energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, rising unemployment, and the stability and solvency of financial institutions, financial markets, businesses and sovereign nations, among other concerns. these concerns have slowed global economic growth and have resulted in recessions in numerous countries, including many of those in north america, europe and asia. recent economic conditions had a negative impact on our results of operations during the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2009 due to reduced customer demand and it is unclear when economic conditions will improve. as these economic conditions continue to persist, or if they worsen, a number of negative effects on our business could result, including customers or potential customers reducing or delaying orders, the insolvency of key suppliers, which could result in production delays, the inability of customers to obtain credit, and the insolvency of one or more customers. any of these effects could impact our ability to effectively manage inventory levels and collect receivables and ultimately decrease our net revenues and profitability. the semiconductor industry is characterized by cyclical market patterns and a significant industry downturn could adversely affect our operating results . the semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and our financial performance has been affected by downturns in the industry, including the current downturn. down cycles are generally characterized by price erosion and weaker demand for our products. weaker demand for our products resulting from economic conditions in the end markets we serve and reduced capital spending by our customers can result, and in the past has resulted in excess and obsolete inventories and corresponding inventory write-downs. we attempt to identify changes in market conditions as soon as possible; however, the dynamics of the market make prediction of and timely reaction to such events difficult. due to these and other factors, our past results are much less reliable predictors of the future than for companies in older, more stable industries. the nature of our business makes our revenues difficult to predict which could have an adverse impact on our business. in addition to the challenging market conditions we may face, we have limited visibility into the demand for our products, particularly new products, because demand for our products depends upon our products being designed into our end customers products and those products achieving market acceptance. due to the complexity of our customers designs, the design to volume production process for our customers requires a substantial amount of time, frequently longer than a year. in addition, we are increasingly dependent upon turns, orders received and turned for shipment in the same quarter, and we have historically derived a significant portion of our quarterly revenue during the last weeks of the quarter. these factors make it difficult for us to forecast future sales and project quarterly revenues. the difficulty in forecasting future sales impairs our ability to project our inventory requirements, which could result, and in the past has resulted in inventory write-downs or failure to timely meet customer product demands. in addition, difficulty in forecasting revenues compromises our ability to provide forward-looking revenue and earnings guidance. global economic conditions, the economic conditions of the countries in which we operate and currency fluctuations could have a material adverse affect on our business and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. in addition to our u.s. operations, we also have significant international operations, including foreign sales offices to support our international customers and distributors, our regional headquarters in ireland and singapore and a research and development site in india. in connection with the restructuring we announced in april 2009, we expect our international operations to grow as we relocate certain operations and administrative functions. sales and operations outside of the u.s. subject us to the risks associated with conducting business in foreign economic and regulatory environments. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in countries in which we do significant business or by changes in foreign currency exchange rates affecting those countries. the company derives over one-half of its revenues from international sales, 12 primarily in the asia pacific region, europe and japan. past and current economic weakness in these markets adversely affected revenues. the timing and nature of economic recovery in these markets as well as in the u.s. remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that global market conditions will improve in the near future. sales to all direct oems and distributors are denominated in u.s. dollars. while the recent movement of the euro and yen against the u.s. dollar had no material impact to our business, increased volatility could impact our european and japanese customers. currency instability and recent volatility and disruptions in the credit and capital markets may increase credit risks for some of our customers and may impair our customers' ability to repay existing obligations. increased currency volatility could also positively or negatively impact our foreign-currency-denominated costs, assets and liabilities. in addition, devaluation of the u.s. dollar relative to other foreign currencies may increase the operating expenses of our foreign subsidiaries adversely affecting our results of operations. furthermore, because we are increasingly dependent on the global economy, instability in worldwide economic environments occasioned, for example, by political instability, terrorist activity or u.s. military actions could impact economic activity and lead to a contraction of capital spending by our customers. any or all of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and changes in credit rating and in the market values of our portfolio investments which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. our cash, short-term and long-term investments represent significant assets that may be subject to fluctuating or even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements, changes in credit rating and financial market conditions. since september 2007, the global credit markets have experienced adverse conditions that have negatively impacted the values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities. the global credit and capital markets have recently experienced further significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system and the current uncertainty related to global economic conditions. as of march 28, 2009, less than 7% of our $1.58 billion investment portfolio consisted of asset-backed securities and approximately 11% of the portfolio consisted of mortgage-backed securities. asset-backed securities consisted of student loan auction rate securities and other asset-backed securities. approximately 4% of our investment portfolio consisted of student loan auction rate securities and all of these securities are rated aaa with the exception of approximately 14% that were downgraded to a rating during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. more than 98% of the underlying assets that secure the student loan auction rate securities are pools of student loans originated under the federal family education loan program (ffelp) that are substantially guaranteed by the u.s. department of education. these securities experienced failed auctions in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 due to liquidity issues in the global credit markets. in a failed auction, the interest rates are reset to a maximum rate defined by the contractual terms for each security. we have collected and expect to collect all interest payable on these securities when due. during fiscal 2009, $1.4 million of these student loan auction rate securities were redeemed for cash by the issuers at par value. beginning with the quarter ended march 29, 2008, the student loan auction rate securities were reclassified from short-term to long-term investments on the consolidated balance sheets since there can be no assurance of a successful auction in the future. the final maturity dates range from march 2023 to november 2047. all other asset-backed securities comprised less than 3% of our investment portfolio as of march 28, 2009, of which approximately 9% are aaa rated with the majority of the rest of the asset-backed securities rated a or bbb. these asset-backed securities are secured primarily by bank, finance and insurance company obligations, collateralized loan and bank obligations, credit card debt and mortgage-backed securities with no direct u.s. subprime mortgage exposure. substantially all of the other mortgage-backed securities in the investment portfolio are aaa rated, were issued by u.s. government-sponsored enterprises and agencies and represented approximately 11% of the investment portfolio as of march 28, 2009. as a result of these recent adverse conditions in the global credit markets, there is a risk that we may incur additional other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments such as asset-backed securities should the credit markets experience further deterioration or the underlying assets fail to perform as anticipated due to the continued or worsening global economic conditions. our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair values of our debt securities is judged to be other than temporary. furthermore, we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or financial market conditions. see note 4. financial instruments to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, for a table of our available-for-sale securities. we are subject to the risks associated with conducting business operations outside of the u.s. which could adversely affect our business. in addition to international sales and support operations and development activities, we purchase our wafers from foreign foundries and have our commercial products assembled, packaged and tested by subcontractors located outside the u.s. in connection with the restructuring we announced in april 2009, we expect these subcontractor activities to increase. all of these activities are subject to the uncertainties associated with international business operations, including tax laws and regulations, trade barriers, economic sanctions, import and export regulations, duties and tariffs and other trade restrictions, changes in trade policies, foreign governmental regulations, reduced protection for ip, longer receivable collection periods and disruptions or delays in production or shipments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. additional factors that could adversely affect us due to our international operations include rising oil prices and increased costs of natural resources. moreover, our financial condition and results of operations could be affected in the event of political conflicts or economic crises in 13 countries where our main wafer providers, end customers and contract manufacturers who provide assembly and test services worldwide, are located. adverse change to the circumstances or conditions of our international business operations could have a material adverse effect on our business. our success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products and failure to do so would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. our success depends in large part on our ability to develop and introduce new products that address customer requirements and compete effectively on the basis of price, density, functionality, power consumption and performance. the success of new product introductions is dependent upon several factors, including: timely completion of new product designs; ability to generate new design opportunities or design wins ; availability of specialized field application engineering resources supporting demand creation and customer adoption of new products; ability to utilize advanced manufacturing process technologies on circuit geometries of 65nm and smaller; achieving acceptable yields; ability to obtain adequate production capacity from our wafer foundries and assembly and test subcontractors; ability to obtain advanced packaging; availability of supporting software design tools; utilization of predefined ip cores of logic; customer acceptance of advanced features in our new products; and market acceptance of our customers products. our product development efforts may not be successful, our new products may not achieve industry acceptance and we may not achieve the necessary volume of production that would lead to further per unit cost reductions. revenues relating to our mature products are expected to decline in the future, which is normal for our product life cycles. as a result, we may be increasingly dependent on revenues derived from design wins for our newer products as well as anticipated cost reductions in the manufacture of our current products. we rely primarily on obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture of existing products and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and other price/performance factors that enable us to increase revenues while maintaining consistent margins. to the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner, or to the extent that our products do not achieve market acceptance at prices with higher margins, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we are dependent on independent foundries for the manufacture of all of our products and a manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could adversely affect our operations. during fiscal 2009, nearly all of our wafers were manufactured either in taiwan, by umc or in japan, by toshiba or seiko. terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations between xilinx and these wafer foundries, which usually result in short-term agreements that do not provide for long-term supply or allocation commitments. we are dependent on these foundries, especially umc, which supplies the substantial majority of our wafers. we rely on umc to produce wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes. these attributes include an ability to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies and increased wafer sizes, produce wafers at acceptable yields and deliver them in a timely manner. we cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our wafers will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies or difficulties due to limitations of new and existing process technologies. furthermore, we cannot guarantee the foundries will be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products. in addition, current economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of the foundries and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us. the insolvency of a foundry or any significant manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity would disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. we have established other sources of wafer supply for our products in an effort to secure a continued supply of wafers. however, establishing, maintaining and managing multiple foundry relationships requires the investment of management resources as well as additional costs. if we do not manage these relationships effectively, it could adversely affect our results of operations. increased costs of wafers and materials, or shortages in wafers and materials, could adversely impact our gross margins and lead to reduced revenues. if greater demand for wafers produced by the foundries is not offset by an increase in foundry capacity, or market demand for wafers or production and assembly materials increases, our supply of wafers and other materials could become limited. such shortages raise the likelihood of potential wafer price increases and wafer shortages or shortages in materials at production and test facilities. such 14 increases in wafer prices or materials could adversely affect our gross margins and shortages of wafers and materials would adversely affect our ability to meet customer demands. earthquakes and other natural disasters could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. the independent foundries, upon which we rely to manufacture our products, as well as our california and singapore facilities, are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. umc foundries in taiwan and toshiba and seiko foundries in japan as well as many of our operations in california are centered in areas that have been seismically active in the recent past and some areas have been affected by other natural disasters. any catastrophic event in these locations will disrupt our operations, including our manufacturing activities. this type of disruption could result in our inability to manufacture or ship products, thereby materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, disruption of operations at these foundries for any reason, including other natural disasters such as typhoons, fires or floods, as well as disruptions in access to adequate supplies of electricity, natural gas or water could cause delays in shipments of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we are dependent on independent subcontractors for most of our assembly and test services and unavailability or disruption of these services could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. we are also dependent on subcontractors to provide semiconductor assembly, substrate, test and shipment services. any prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, any disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands. in addition, current economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of these subcontractors and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us. these factors would result in reduced net revenues and could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. if we are not able to successfully compete in our industry, our financial results and future prospects will be adversely affected. our plds compete in the logic ic industry, an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion. we expect increased competition from our primary pld competitors, altera, lattice and actel, from the asic market, which has been ongoing since the inception of fpgas, from the assp market, and from new companies that may enter the traditional programmable logic market segment. we believe that important competitive factors in the logic ic industry include: product pricing; time-to-market; product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density; field upgradability; adaptability of products to specific applications; ease of use and functionality of software design tools; availability and functionality of predefined ip cores of logic; inventory management; access to leading-edge process technology and assembly capacity; and ability to provide timely customer service and support. our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high-volume, low-cost and low-power applications as well as high-performance, high-density applications. in addition, we anticipate continued price reductions proportionate with our ability to lower the cost for established products. however, we may not be successful in achieving these strategies. other competitors include manufacturers of: high-density programmable logic products characterized by fpga-type architectures; high-volume and low-cost fpgas as programmable replacements for asics and assps; asics and assps with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; high-speed, low-density cplds; high-performance dsp devices; products with embedded processors; products with embedded multi-gigabit transceivers; and other new or emerging programmable logic products. 15 several companies have introduced products that compete with ours or have announced their intention to sell pld products. to the extent that our efforts to compete are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the benefits of programmable logic have attracted a number of competitors to this segment. we recognize that different applications require different programmable technologies, and we are developing architectures, processes and products to meet these varying customer needs. recognizing the increasing importance of standard software solutions, we have developed common software design tools that support the full range of our ic products. we believe that automation and ease of design are significant competitive factors in this segment. we could also face competition from our licensees. in the past we have granted limited rights to other companies with respect to certain of our older technology, and we may do so in the future. granting such rights may enable these companies to manufacture and market products that may be competitive with some of our older products. our failure to protect and defend our intellectual property could impair our ability to compete effectively. we rely upon patent, copyright, trade secret, mask work and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property. we cannot provide assurance that such intellectual property rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. from time to time, third parties, including our competitors, have asserted against us patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to us. third parties may assert infringement claims against our indemnitees or us in the future. assertions by third parties may result in costly litigation or indemnity claims and we may not prevail in such matters or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. this could result in the loss of our ability to import and sell our products. any infringement claim, indemnification claim, or impairment or loss of use of our intellectual property could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we rely on information technology systems, and failure of these systems to function properly could result in business disruption. we rely in part on various information technology (it) systems to manage our operations, including financial reporting, and we regularly evaluate these systems and make changes to improve them as necessary. consequently, we periodically implement new, or enhance existing, operational and it systems, procedures and controls. for example, we recently simplified our supply chain and were required to make certain changes to our it systems. any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. further, these systems are subject to power and telecommunication outages or other general system failure. failure of our it systems or difficulties in managing them could result in business disruption. if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls, our stock price could be adversely affected. we are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (the act). our controls necessary for continued compliance with the act may not operate effectively at all times and may result in a material weakness disclosure. the identification of material weaknesses in internal control, if any, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements and could cause investors to lose confidence and our stock price to drop. further, our internal control effectiveness may be impacted upon executing the restructuring plan announced in april 2009 if we are unable to successfully transfer certain control activities and responsibilities to new personnel in different locations. unfavorable results of legal proceedings could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. from time to time we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business. certain claims are not yet resolved, including those that are discussed in item 3. legal proceedings, included in part i, and additional claims may arise in the future. results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. regardless of its merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention and we may enter into material settlements to avoid these risks. should the company fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against us in the same reporting period, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that would materially and adversely affect a portion of our business and might materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. our products could have defects which could result in reduced revenues and claims against us. we develop complex and evolving products that include both hardware and software. despite our testing efforts and those of our subcontractors, defects may be found in existing or new products. these defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair or replacement costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our 16 relationships with customers. product defects or other performance problems could result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and would likely harm our business. our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. a product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly to defend. product liability risks are particularly significant with respect to aerospace, automotive and medical applications because of the risk of serious harm to users of these products. any product liability claim, whether or not determined in our favor, could result in significant expense, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and harm our business. in preparing our financial statements, we make good faith estimates and judgments that may change or turn out to be erroneous. in preparing our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states, we must make estimates and judgments in applying our most critical accounting policies. those estimates and judgments have a significant impact on the results we report in our consolidated financial statements. the most difficult estimates and subjective judgments that we make concern valuation of marketable and non-marketable securities, revenue recognition, inventories, long-lived assets, taxes, legal matters and stock-based compensation. we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. we also have other key accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult, but which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial reporting. actual results may differ materially from these estimates. if these estimates or their related assumptions change, our operating results for the periods in which we revise our estimates or assumptions could be adversely and perhaps materially affected. we depend on distributors, primarily avnet, to generate a majority of our sales and complete order fulfillment. resale of product through avnet accounted for 55% of the company worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2009 and as of march 28, 2009, avnet accounted for 81% of our total accounts receivable. in addition, we are subject to concentrations of credit risk in our trade accounts receivable, which includes accounts of our distributors. a significant reduction of effort by a distributor to sell our products or a material change in our relationship with one or more distributors may reduce our access to certain end customers and adversely affect our ability to sell our products. furthermore, if a key distributor materially defaults on a contract or otherwise fails to perform, our business and financial results would suffer. in addition, the financial health of our distributors and our continuing relationships with them are important to our success. current economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health of some of these distributors, particularly our smaller distributors. this could result in the insolvency of certain distributors, the inability of distributors to obtain credit to finance the purchase of our products, or cause distributors to delay payment of their obligations to us and increase our credit risk exposure. our business could be harmed if the financial health of these distributors impairs their performance and we are unable to secure alternate distributors. reductions in the average selling prices of our products could have a negative impact on our gross margins. the average selling prices of our products generally decline as the products mature. we seek to offset the decrease in selling prices through yield improvement, manufacturing cost reductions and increased unit sales. we also continue to develop higher value products or product features that increase, or slow the decline of, the average selling price of our products. however, there is no guarantee that our ongoing efforts will be successful or that they will keep pace with the decline in selling prices of our products, which could ultimately lead to a decline in revenues and have a negative effect on our gross margins. a number of factors can impact our gross margins. a number of factors, including our product mix, market acceptance of our new products, competitive pricing dynamics, geographic and/or market segment pricing strategies and various manufacturing cost variables cause our gross margins to fluctuate. in addition, forecasting our gross margins is difficult because the majority of our business is based on turns within the same quarter. if we do not successfully implement the restructuring we announced in april 2009, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. in april 2009, we announced restructuring measures and a net reduction in our global workforce by up to 200 positions, which we expect to complete by the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. the positions will be eliminated across a variety of functions and geographies worldwide. the restructuring is designed to drive structural operating efficiencies across the company and will align our company with the evolving geographic distribution of our customers and supply chain. however, if we do not successfully implement this restructuring, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations with regard to our announced restructuring include: 17 the availability and hiring of the appropriately skilled workers in the asia pacific region; the transition of testing and other operational matters to third parties; and/or the timing and execution of our programs and plans related to the restructuring. considerable amounts of our common shares are available for issuance under our equity incentive plans and debentures, and significant issuances in the future may adversely impact the market price of our common shares. as of march 28, 2009, we had 2.00 billion authorized common shares, of which 275.5 million shares were outstanding. in addition, 62.7 million common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to our equity incentive plans and 1990 employee qualified stock purchase plan (employee stock purchase plan), and 22.4 million shares were reserved for issuance upon conversion or repurchase of the 3.125% convertible debentures due march 15, 2037 (debentures). the availability of substantial amounts of our common shares resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity incentive plans or the conversion or repurchase of debentures using common shares, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 37 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data 39 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and 74 financial disclosure item 9a. controls and procedures 74 item 9b. other information 74 part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance 75 item 11. executive compensation 75 item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management 75 and related stockholder matters item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence 77 item 14. principal accountant fees and services 77 part iv item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules 78 signatures 80 2 part i forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements may be found throughout this annual report and particularly in items 1. business and 3. legal proceedings which contain discussions concerning our development efforts, strategy, new product introductions, backlog and litigation. forward-looking statements involve numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed or implied. such risks include, but are not limited to, those discussed throughout this document as well as in item 1a. "risk factors." often, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words, such as may, will, could, should, expect, believe, anticipate, estimate, continue, plan, intend, project and other similar terminology, or the negative of such terms. we disclaim any responsibility to update or revise any forward-looking statement provided in this annual report or in any of our other communications for any reason. item 1. business xilinx, inc. (xilinx or the company) designs, develops and markets complete programmable logic solutions. these solutions have several components: advanced integrated circuits (ics) in the form of programmable logic devices (plds); software design tools to program the plds; predefined system functions delivered as intellectual property (ip) cores; design services; customer training; and field engineering and technical support. our plds include field programmable gate arrays (fpgas) and complex programmable logic devices (cplds) that our customers program to perform desired logic functions. our solutions are designed to provide high integration and quick time-to-market for electronic equipment manufacturers in end markets such as wired and wireless communications, industrial, scientific and medical, aerospace and defense, audio, video and broadcast, consumer, automotive and data processing. we sell our products globally through independent domestic and foreign distributors and through direct sales to original equipment manufacturers (oems) by a network of independent sales representative firms and by a direct sales management organization. xilinx was founded and incorporated in california in february 1984. in april 1990, the company reincorporated in delaware. our corporate facilities and executive offices are located at 2100 logic drive, san jose, california 95124, and our website address is www.xilinx.com. industry overview there are three principal types of ics used in most digital electronic systems: processors, which generally are utilized for control and computing tasks; memory devices, which are used for storing program instructions and data; and logic devices, which generally are used to manage the interchange and manipulation of digital signals within a system. xilinx develops plds, a type of logic device. alternatives to plds include custom gate arrays, application specific integrated circuits (asics) and application specific standard products (assps). these devices all compete with each other since they may be utilized in many of the same types of applications within electronic systems. however, variations in unit pricing, development cost, product performance, reliability, power consumption, density, functionality, ease of use and time-to-market determine the degree to which the devices compete for specific applications. the primary advantage plds have over custom gate arrays, asics and assps is that plds enable faster time-to-market because of their shorter design cycles. users can program the pld to implement their design, using software to create and revise their designs relatively quickly with lower development costs. plds typically have a larger die size resulting in higher costs per unit compared to custom gate arrays, asics and assps, which are customized to perform a limited fixed function. custom gate arrays, asics and assps, however, generally offer less flexibility, require longer design cycles and higher up-front costs than plds. plds are standard components. this means that the same device type can be sold to many different users for many different applications. as a result, the development cost of plds can be spread over a large number of users. custom gate arrays, asics and assps, on the other hand, are custom chips for an individual user for use in a specific application. assps implement specific functions for a limited set of users. this involves a high up-front cost to users. technology advances are enabling pld companies to reduce costs considerably, making plds an increasingly attractive alternative to custom gate arrays, asics and assps. 3 an overview of typical pld end market applications for our products is shown in the following table: end markets sub-segments applications communications wireless 3g/4g base stations wireless backhaul wireline metro area networks optical networks enterprise switches mid-end and high-end routers consumer, automotive, industrial and other consumer flat-panel televisions digital video recorders cable set-top boxes automotive gps navigation systems rear-seat entertainment vision-based driver assistance systems industrial, scientific and medical factory automation medical imaging test and measurement equipment audio, video and broadcast cable head-end systems broadcast equipment video cameras aerospace and defense satellite surveillance radar and sonar systems secure communications data processing storage and servers security and encryption computer peripherals office automation copiers printers products integral to the success of our business is the timely introduction of new products that meet customer requirements and compete effectively with respect to price, functionality, power and performance. software design tools, ip cores, reference platforms, technical support and design services are also critical components that enable our customers to implement their design specifications into our plds. altogether, our plds and related tools, ip, service and support form a comprehensive programmable logic solution. a brief overview of our pld offerings follows and is not all-inclusive but does comprise the majority of our revenues. some of our more mature product families have been excluded from the table although they continue to generate revenues. we operate and track our results in one operating segment for financial reporting purposes. 4 product families process fpgas date introduced densities technology voltage 75k to 760k virtex -6 february 2009 logic cells 40-nanometer (nm) 1.0v, 0.9v 20k to 330k virtex-5 may 2006 logic cells 65nm 1.0v 12k to 200k virtex-4 june 2004 logic cells 90nm 1.2v 3k to 99k virtex-ii pro march 2002 logic cells 130nm 1.5v 576 to 104k virtex-ii january 2001 logic cells 150nm 1.5v 1.7k to 73k virtex-e september 1999 logic cells 180nm 1.8v 4k to 150k logic spartan -6 february 2009 cells 45nm 1.2v, 1.0v 1.6k to 54k spartan-3a december 2006 logic cells 90nm 1.2v 2.2k to 33.2k spartan-3e march 2005 logic cells 90nm 1.2v 1.7k to 75k logic spartan-3 april 2003 cells 90nm 1.2v 1.7k to 16k logic spartan-iie november 2001 cells 150nm 1.8v process cplds date introduced densities technology voltage 32 to 512 coolrunner -ii january 2002 macrocells 180nm 1.8v 32 to 512 coolrunner august 1999 macrocells 350nm 3.3v virtex fpgas the virtex-6 fpga family consists of 13 devices and is the sixth generation in the virtex series of fpgas. virtex-6 fpgas are fabricated on a high-performance, 40-nm process technology. the virtex-6 family is comprised of three domain-optimized platforms to deliver different feature mixes to address a variety of markets as follows: lxt platform: for applications that require high-performance logic, digital signal processing (dsp), and serial connectivity; sxt platform: for applications that require ultra high-performance dsp and serial connectivity; hxt platform: for communications applications that require the highest-speed serial connectivity. the virtex-5 fpga family consists of 26 devices and five platforms: virtex-5 lx fpgas for logic-intensive designs, virtex-5 lxt fpgas for high-performance logic with serial connectivity, virtex-5 sxt fpgas for high-performance dsp with serial connectivity, virtex-5 fxt fpgas for embedded processing with serial connectivity and virtex-5 txt fpgas for high-bandwidth serial connectivity. prior generation virtex families include virtex-4, virtex-ii pro, virtex-ii, virtex-e and the original virtex family. 5 spartan fpgas the sixth generation in the spartan fpga series, the spartan-6 fpga family, is fabricated on a low-power 45-nm process technology. the spartan-6 family is the pld industry first 45-nm high-volume fpga family. the family consists of 11 devices and is delivered on two fpga platforms to address diverse market and application requirements as follows: lx platform: for applications that require cost-effective logic, memory and dsp; lxt platform: for applications that require lx features plus high-speed serial transceivers. spartan-3 fpgas were the pld industry first 90-nm fpgas and are comprised of three platforms including the original spartan-3 family, the spartan-3e family and the spartan-3a family. prior generation spartan families include spartan-iie, spartan-ii, spartan xl and the original spartan family. easypath fpgas easypath fpgas use the same production masks and fabrication process as standard fpgas and are tested to a specific customer application to improve yield and lower costs. as a result, easypath fpgas provide customers with significant cost reduction when compared to the standard fpga devices without the conversion risk, conversion engineering effort or the additional time required to move to an asic. easypath fpgas are available for the higher density devices of the virtex-ii pro, virtex-4 and virtex-5 families. easypath fpgas will also be available for the higher densities of the virtex-6 family. customers purchasing easypath fpgas must meet certain minimum order requirements and pay a custom test generation charge. cplds cplds operate on the low end of the programmable logic density spectrum. cplds are single chip, nonvolatile solutions characterized by instant-on and universal interconnect. the coolrunner-ii family is the latest generation xilinx cpld family with six devices in production. coolrunner-ii cplds combine the advantages of ultra low power consumption with the benefits of high performance and low cost. while coolrunner-ii is suitable for a wide variety of end markets and applications, the ultra low power consumption and small package profiles of these devices have led to their acceptance in the growing portable consumer electronics marketplace. prior generation cpld families include the coolrunner, xc9500 and xc9500xl, which offer low cost, high performance and in-system programmability for 5.0-volt and 3.3-volt systems, respectively. support products targeted design platforms we offer targeted design platforms comprised of reference designs, target boards, application software, design tools, ip and silicon to reduce our customers development effort. targeted design platforms are organized into three levels: the base platform; the domain-specific platform; and the market-specific platform to offer customers flexibility, accessibility, applicability and time-to-market. the base platform is the delivery vehicle for all new silicon offerings used to develop and run customer-specific software applications and hardware designs. released at launch, the base platform is comprised of: fpga silicon; ise (integrated software environment) design suite design environment; third-party synthesis, simulation, and signal integrity tools; reference designs; development boards and ip. the domain-specific platform targets one of the three primary xilinx fpga user profiles: the embedded processing developer; the dsp developer; or the logic/connectivity developer. it accomplishes this by augmenting the base platform with a targeted set of integrated technologies, including: higher-level design methodologies and tools; domain-specific ip including embedded, dsp and connectivity; domain-specific development hardware and reference designs; and operating systems and software. the market-specific platform enables software or hardware developers to quickly build and run their specific application or solution. built for specific markets such as automotive, consumer, aerospace and defense, communications, audio, video and broadcast, industrial, or scientific and medical, the market-specific platform integrates both the base and domain-specific platforms with higher targeted applications elements such as ip, reference designs and boards optimized for a particular market. 6 design environments to accommodate the various design methodologies and design flows employed by the wide range of our customers user profiles such as system designers, algorithm designers, software coders and logic designers, we provide the appropriate design environment tailored to each user profile for design creation, design implementation and design verification. the xilinx ise design suite features a complete tool chain for the three domain-specific categories: embedded, dsp and logic/connectivity. to further enhance productivity and help customers better manage the complexity of their designs, the ise design suite enables designers to target area, performance, or power by simply selecting a design goal in the setup. the xilinx ise design suite also integrates with a wide range of third-party electronic design automation (eda) software offerings and point-tools. intellectual property xilinx and various third parties offer hundreds of free and for-license ip components to meet timing parameters, including a host of widely used ip such as gige, ethernet, memory controllers, and pcie , as well as an abundance of domain-specific ip, such as embedded, dsp and connectivity, and market-specific ip. development boards, reference designs, kits and configuration products in addition to the broad selection of legacy development boards presently offered, we have introduced a new unified board strategy that enables the creation of a standardized and coordinated set of base boards available both from xilinx and our ecosystem partners, all utilizing the industry-standard extensions. adopting this standard for all of our base boards enables the creation of a unified, scalable and extensible delivery mechanism for all xilinx targeted design platforms. as a part of the targeted design platform support strategy, xilinx has also defined a new class of reference designs called the targeted reference designs that offer a consistent, robust framework that is scalable for customer modification and supported throughout the product lifecycle. we also offer comprehensive development kits including hardware, design tools, ip and reference designs that are designed to streamline and accelerate the development of domain-specific and market-specific applications. finally, xilinx offers a range of configuration products including one-time programmable and in-system programmable storage devices to configure xilinx fpgas. these prom (programmable read-only memory) products support all of our fpga devices. third-party ecosystem xilinx and certain third parties have developed and continue to offer a robust ecosystem of ip, boards, tools, services, and support through the xilinx alliance program. xilinx is also moving forward with these third parties to make targeted design platforms extensible through third-party tools, ip, software, boards, and design services, and leveraged in customer designs. global services xilinx engineering services and our third-party alliance member services enhance the substantial benefits of the targeted design platforms by allowing the customer to focus even more on their core competencies, realize additional time-to-market efficiencies and reduce their fixed engineering costs. these services provide customers with engineering resources to augment their design team and to provide expert design-specific advice. xilinx tailors its engineering services to the needs of its customer, ranging from hands-on training to full design creation and implementation. see information under the caption results of operations net revenues in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for information about our revenues from our product families. research and development our research and development (r&amp;d) activities are primarily directed towards the design of new ics, the development of new software design automation tools for hardware and embedded software, the design of logic ip cores, the adoption of advanced semiconductor manufacturing processes for ongoing cost reductions, performance and signal integrity improvements and the lowering of pld power consumption. as a result of our r&amp;d efforts, we have introduced a number of new products during the past several years including the virtex-6, virtex-5 and spartan-6 families. additionally, we have made enhancements to our ip core offerings and introduced new versions of our ise design suite. we extended our collaboration with our foundry suppliers in the development of 65-nm, 45-nm and 40-nm complementary metal oxide semiconductor (cmos) manufacturing technology and we were the first company in the pld industry to ship 65-nm and 45-nm high-volume fpga devices. 7 our r&amp;d challenge is to continue to develop new products that create cost-effective solutions for customers. in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, our r&amp;d expenses were $355.4 million, $358.1 million and $388.1 million, respectively. we believe technical leadership and innovation are essential to our future success and we are committed to maintaining a significant level of r&amp;d investment. sales and distribution we sell our products to oems and to electronic components distributors who resell these products to oems or contract manufacturers. we use dedicated global sales and marketing organizations as well as independent sales representatives to generate sales. in general, we focus our direct demand creation efforts on a limited number of key accounts with independent sales representatives often addressing those customers in defined territories. distributors create demand within the balance of our customer base. distributors also provide vendor-managed inventory, value-added services and logistics for a wide range of our oem customers. whether xilinx, the independent sales representative, or the distributor identifies the sales opportunity, a local distributor will process and fulfill the majority of all customer orders. in such situations, distributors are the sellers of the products and as such they bear all legal and financial risks generally related to the sale of commercial goods, such as credit loss, inventory shrinkage and theft, as well as foreign currency fluctuations, but excluding indemnity and warranty liability. in accordance with our distribution agreements and industry practice, we have granted the distributors the contractual right to return certain amounts of unsold product on a periodic basis and also receive price adjustments for unsold product in the case of a subsequent change in list prices. revenue recognition on shipments to distributors worldwide is deferred until the products are sold to the distributors end customers. avnet, inc. (avnet) distributes the substantial majority of our products worldwide. no end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 or 2007. as of march 28, 2009 and march 29, 2008, avnet accounted for 81% and 83% of the company total accounts receivable, respectively. resale of product through avnet accounted for 55%, 61% and 67% of the company worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. we also use other regional distributors throughout the world. from time to time, we may add or terminate distributors in specific geographies, as we deem appropriate given the level of business, their performance and financial condition. we believe distributors provide a cost-effective means of reaching a broad range of customers while providing efficient logistics services. since plds are standard products, they do not present many of the inventory risks to distributors posed by custom gate arrays, and they simplify the requirements for distributor technical support. see note 2. summary of significant accounting policies and concentrations of risk to our consolidated financial statements, included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our investment portfolio, which consists of fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $1.24 billion as of march 28, 2009. our primary aim with our investment portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal and meeting liquidity needs. our investment portfolio includes municipal bonds, floating rate notes, mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities, bank certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate bonds, student loan auction rate securities and u.s. and foreign government and agency securities. in accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer based upon the issuer credit rating. these securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. a hypothetical 100 basis-point (one percentage point) increase or decrease in interest rates compared to rates at march 28, 2009 and march 29, 2008 would have affected the fair value of our investment portfolio by less than $6.0 million and $9.0 million, respectively. credit market risk since september 2007, the global credit markets have experienced adverse conditions that have negatively impacted the values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities. the global credit and capital markets have recently experienced further significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system and the current uncertainty related to global economic conditions. as a result of these recent adverse conditions in the global credit markets, there is a risk that we may incur additional other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments such as asset-backed securities should the credit markets experience further deterioration. see note 4. financial instruments to our consolidated financial statements, included inrisk factors 12 item 1b. unresolved staff comments 18 item 2. properties 18 item 3. legal proceedings 18 item 4. submission of matters to a vote of security holders 19 part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and 20 issuer purchases of equity securities item 6. selected financial data 22 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results 23 of operations item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 37 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data 39 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and 74 financial disclosure item 9a. controls and procedures 74 item 9b. other information 74 part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance 75 item 11. executive compensation 75 item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management 75 and related stockholder matters item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence 77 item 14. principal accountant fees and services 77 part iv item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules 78 signatures 80 2 part i forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements may be found throughout this annual report and particularly in items 1. business and 3. legal proceedings which contain discussions concerning our development efforts, strategy, new product introductions, backlog and litigation. forward-looking statements involve numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed or implied. such risks include, but are not limited to, those discussed throughout this document as well as in item 1a. "risk factors." often, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words, such as may, will, could, should, expect, believe, anticipate, estimate, continue, plan, intend, project and other similar terminology, or the negative of such terms. we disclaim any responsibility to update or revise any forward-looking statement provided in this annual report or in any of our other communications for any reason. item 1. business xilinx, inc. (xilinx or the company) designs, develops and markets complete programmable logic solutions. these solutions have several components: advanced integrated circuits (ics) in the form of programmable logic devices (plds); software design tools to program the plds; predefined system functions delivered as intellectual property (ip) cores; design services; customer training; and field engineering and technical support. our plds include field programmable gate arrays (fpgas) and complex programmable logic devices (cplds) that our customers program to perform desired logic functions. our solutions are designed to provide high integration and quick time-to-market for electronic equipment manufacturers in end markets such as wired and wireless communications, industrial, scientific and medical, aerospace and defense, audio, video and broadcast, consumer, automotive and data processing. we sell our products globally through independent domestic and foreign distributors and through direct sales to original equipment manufacturers (oems) by a network of independent sales representative firms and by a direct sales management organization. xilinx was founded and incorporated in california in february 1984. in april 1990, the company reincorporated in delaware. our corporate facilities and executive offices are located at 2100 logic drive, san jose, california 95124, and our website address is www.xilinx.com. industry overview there are three principal types of ics used in most digital electronic systems: processors, which generally are utilized for control and computing tasks; memory devices, which are used for storing program instructions and data; and logic devices, which generally are used to manage the interchange and manipulation of digital signals within a system. xilinx develops plds, a type of logic device. alternatives to plds include custom gate arrays, application specific integrated circuits (asics) and application specific standard products (assps). these devices all compete with each other since they may be utilized in many of the same types of applications within electronic systems. however, variations in unit pricing, development cost, product performance, reliability, power consumption, density, functionality, ease of use and time-to-market determine the degree to which the devices compete for specific applications. the primary advantage plds have over custom gate arrays, asics and assps is that plds enable faster time-to-market because of their shorter design cycles. users can program the pld to implement their design, using software to create and revise their designs relatively quickly with lower development costs. plds typically have a larger die size resulting in higher costs per unit compared to custom gate arrays, asics and assps, which are customized to perform a limited fixed function. custom gate arrays, asics and assps, however, generally offer less flexibility, require longer design cycles and higher up-front costs than plds. plds are standard components. this means that the same device type can be sold to many different users for many different applications. as a result, the development cost of plds can be spread over a large number of users. custom gate arrays, asics and assps, on the other hand, are custom chips for an individual user for use in a specific application. assps implement specific functions for a limited set of users. this involves a high up-front cost to users. technology advances are enabling pld companies to reduce costs considerably, making plds an increasingly attractive alternative to custom gate arrays, asics and assps. 3 an overview of typical pld end market applications for our products is shown in the following table: end markets sub-segments applications communications wireless 3g/4g base stations wireless backhaul wireline metro area networks optical networks enterprise switches mid-end and high-end routers consumer, automotive, industrial and other consumer flat-panel televisions digital video recorders cable set-top boxes automotive gps navigation systems rear-seat entertainment vision-based driver assistance systems industrial, scientific and medical factory automation medical imaging test and measurement equipment audio, video and broadcast cable head-end systems broadcast equipment video cameras aerospace and defense satellite surveillance radar and sonar systems secure communications data processing storage and servers security and encryption computer peripherals office automation copiers printers products integral to the success of our business is the timely introduction of new products that meet customer requirements and compete effectively with respect to price, functionality, power and performance. software design tools, ip cores, reference platforms, technical support and design services are also critical components that enable our customers to implement their design specifications into our plds. altogether, our plds and related tools, ip, service and support form a comprehensive programmable logic solution. a brief overview of our pld offerings follows and is not all-inclusive but does comprise the majority of our revenues. some of our more mature product families have been excluded from the table although they continue to generate revenues. we operate and track our results in one operating segment for financial reporting purposes. 4 product families process fpgas date introduced densities technology voltage 75k to 760k virtex -6 february 2009 logic cells 40-nanometer (nm) 1.0v, 0.9v 20k to 330k virtex-5 may 2006 logic cells 65nm 1.0v 12k to 200k virtex-4 june 2004 logic cells 90nm 1.2v 3k to 99k virtex-ii pro march 2002 logic cells 130nm 1.5v 576 to 104k virtex-ii january 2001 logic cells 150nm 1.5v 1.7k to 73k virtex-e september 1999 logic cells 180nm 1.8v 4k to 150k logic spartan -6 february 2009 cells 45nm 1.2v, 1.0v 1.6k to 54k spartan-3a december 2006 logic cells 90nm 1.2v 2.2k to 33.2k spartan-3e march 2005 logic cells 90nm 1.2v 1.7k to 75k logic spartan-3 april 2003 cells 90nm 1.2v 1.7k to 16k logic spartan-iie november 2001 cells 150nm 1.8v process cplds date introduced densities technology voltage 32 to 512 coolrunner -ii january 2002 macrocells 180nm 1.8v 32 to 512 coolrunner august 1999 macrocells 350nm 3.3v virtex fpgas the virtex-6 fpga family consists of 13 devices and is the sixth generation in the virtex series of fpgas. virtex-6 fpgas are fabricated on a high-performance, 40-nm process technology. the virtex-6 family is comprised of three domain-optimized platforms to deliver different feature mixes to address a variety of markets as follows: lxt platform: for applications that require high-performance logic, digital signal processing (dsp), and serial connectivity; sxt platform: for applications that require ultra high-performance dsp and serial connectivity; hxt platform: for communications applications that require the highest-speed serial connectivity. the virtex-5 fpga family consists of 26 devices and five platforms: virtex-5 lx fpgas for logic-intensive designs, virtex-5 lxt fpgas for high-performance logic with serial connectivity, virtex-5 sxt fpgas for high-performance dsp with serial connectivity, virtex-5 fxt fpgas for embedded processing with serial connectivity and virtex-5 txt fpgas for high-bandwidth serial connectivity. prior generation virtex families include virtex-4, virtex-ii pro, virtex-ii, virtex-e and the original virtex family. 5 spartan fpgas the sixth generation in the spartan fpga series, the spartan-6 fpga family, is fabricated on a low-power 45-nm process technology. the spartan-6 family is the pld industry first 45-nm high-volume fpga family. the family consists of 11 devices and is delivered on two fpga platforms to address diverse market and application requirements as follows: lx platform: for applications that require cost-effective logic, memory and dsp; lxt platform: for applications that require lx features plus high-speed serial transceivers. spartan-3 fpgas were the pld industry first 90-nm fpgas and are comprised of three platforms including the original spartan-3 family, the spartan-3e family and the spartan-3a family. prior generation spartan families include spartan-iie, spartan-ii, spartan xl and the original spartan family. easypath fpgas easypath fpgas use the same production masks and fabrication process as standard fpgas and are tested to a specific customer application to improve yield and lower costs. as a result, easypath fpgas provide customers with significant cost reduction when compared to the standard fpga devices without the conversion risk, conversion engineering effort or the additional time required to move to an asic. easypath fpgas are available for the higher density devices of the virtex-ii pro, virtex-4 and virtex-5 families. easypath fpgas will also be available for the higher densities of the virtex-6 family. customers purchasing easypath fpgas must meet certain minimum order requirements and pay a custom test generation charge. cplds cplds operate on the low end of the programmable logic density spectrum. cplds are single chip, nonvolatile solutions characterized by instant-on and universal interconnect. the coolrunner-ii family is the latest generation xilinx cpld family with six devices in production. coolrunner-ii cplds combine the advantages of ultra low power consumption with the benefits of high performance and low cost. while coolrunner-ii is suitable for a wide variety of end markets and applications, the ultra low power consumption and small package profiles of these devices have led to their acceptance in the growing portable consumer electronics marketplace. prior generation cpld families include the coolrunner, xc9500 and xc9500xl, which offer low cost, high performance and in-system programmability for 5.0-volt and 3.3-volt systems, respectively. support products targeted design platforms we offer targeted design platforms comprised of reference designs, target boards, application software, design tools, ip and silicon to reduce our customers development effort. targeted design platforms are organized into three levels: the base platform; the domain-specific platform; and the market-specific platform to offer customers flexibility, accessibility, applicability and time-to-market. the base platform is the delivery vehicle for all new silicon offerings used to develop and run customer-specific software applications and hardware designs. released at launch, the base platform is comprised of: fpga silicon; ise (integrated software environment) design suite design environment; third-party synthesis, simulation, and signal integrity tools; reference designs; development boards and ip. the domain-specific platform targets one of the three primary xilinx fpga user profiles: the embedded processing developer; the dsp developer; or the logic/connectivity developer. it accomplishes this by augmenting the base platform with a targeted set of integrated technologies, including: higher-level design methodologies and tools; domain-specific ip including embedded, dsp and connectivity; domain-specific development hardware and reference designs; and operating systems and software. the market-specific platform enables software or hardware developers to quickly build and run their specific application or solution. built for specific markets such as automotive, consumer, aerospace and defense, communications, audio, video and broadcast, industrial, or scientific and medical, the market-specific platform integrates both the base and domain-specific platforms with higher targeted applications elements such as ip, reference designs and boards optimized for a particular market. 6 design environments to accommodate the various design methodologies and design flows employed by the wide range of our customers user profiles such as system designers, algorithm designers, software coders and logic designers, we provide the appropriate design environment tailored to each user profile for design creation, design implementation and design verification. the xilinx ise design suite features a complete tool chain for the three domain-specific categories: embedded, dsp and logic/connectivity. to further enhance productivity and help customers better manage the complexity of their designs, the ise design suite enables designers to target area, performance, or power by simply selecting a design goal in the setup. the xilinx ise design suite also integrates with a wide range of third-party electronic design automation (eda) software offerings and point-tools. intellectual property xilinx and various third parties offer hundreds of free and for-license ip components to meet timing parameters, including a host of widely used ip such as gige, ethernet, memory controllers, and pcie , as well as an abundance of domain-specific ip, such as embedded, dsp and connectivity, and market-specific ip. development boards, reference designs, kits and configuration products in addition to the broad selection of legacy development boards presently offered, we have introduced a new unified board strategy that enables the creation of a standardized and coordinated set of base boards available both from xilinx and our ecosystem partners, all utilizing the industry-standard extensions. adopting this standard for all of our base boards enables the creation of a unified, scalable and extensible delivery mechanism for all xilinx targeted design platforms. as a part of the targeted design platform support strategy, xilinx has also defined a new class of reference designs called the targeted reference designs that offer a consistent, robust framework that is scalable for customer modification and supported throughout the product lifecycle. we also offer comprehensive development kits including hardware, design tools, ip and reference designs that are designed to streamline and accelerate the development of domain-specific and market-specific applications. finally, xilinx offers a range of configuration products including one-time programmable and in-system programmable storage devices to configure xilinx fpgas. these prom (programmable read-only memory) products support all of our fpga devices. third-party ecosystem xilinx and certain third parties have developed and continue to offer a robust ecosystem of ip, boards, tools, services, and support through the xilinx alliance program. xilinx is also moving forward with these third parties to make targeted design platforms extensible through third-party tools, ip, software, boards, and design services, and leveraged in customer designs. global services xilinx engineering services and our third-party alliance member services enhance the substantial benefits of the targeted design platforms by allowing the customer to focus even more on their core competencies, realize additional time-to-market efficiencies and reduce their fixed engineering costs. these services provide customers with engineering resources to augment their design team and to provide expert design-specific advice. xilinx tailors its engineering services to the needs of its customer, ranging from hands-on training to full design creation and implementation. see information under the caption results of operations net revenues in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for information about our revenues from our product families. research and development our research and development (r&amp;d) activities are primarily directed towards the design of new ics, the development of new software design automation tools for hardware and embedded software, the design of logic ip cores, the adoption of advanced semiconductor manufacturing processes for ongoing cost reductions, performance and signal integrity improvements and the lowering of pld power consumption. as a result of our r&amp;d efforts, we have introduced a number of new products during the past several years including the virtex-6, virtex-5 and spartan-6 families. additionally, we have made enhancements to our ip core offerings and introduced new versions of our ise design suite. we extended our collaboration with our foundry suppliers in the development of 65-nm, 45-nm and 40-nm complementary metal oxide semiconductor (cmos) manufacturing technology and we were the first company in the pld industry to ship 65-nm and 45-nm high-volume fpga devices. 7 our r&amp;d challenge is to continue to develop new products that create cost-effective solutions for customers. in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, our r&amp;d expenses were $355.4 million, $358.1 million and $388.1 million, respectively. we believe technical leadership and innovation are essential to our future success and we are committed to maintaining a significant level of r&amp;d investment. sales and distribution we sell our products to oems and to electronic components distributors who resell these products to oems or contract manufacturers. we use dedicated global sales and marketing organizations as well as independent sales representatives to generate sales. in general, we focus our direct demand creation efforts on a limited number of key accounts with independent sales representatives often addressing those customers in defined territories. distributors create demand within the balance of our customer base. distributors also provide vendor-managed inventory, value-added services and logistics for a wide range of our oem customers. whether xilinx, the independent sales representative, or the distributor identifies the sales opportunity, a local distributor will process and fulfill the majority of all customer orders. in such situations, distributors are the sellers of the products and as such they bear all legal and financial risks generally related to the sale of commercial goods, such as credit loss, inventory shrinkage and theft, as well as foreign currency fluctuations, but excluding indemnity and warranty liability. in accordance with our distribution agreements and industry practice, we have granted the distributors the contractual right to return certain amounts of unsold product on a periodic basis and also receive price adjustments for unsold product in the case of a subsequent change in list prices. revenue recognition on shipments to distributors worldwide is deferred until the products are sold to the distributors end customers. avnet, inc. (avnet) distributes the substantial majority of our products worldwide. no end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 or 2007. as of march 28, 2009 and march 29, 2008, avnet accounted for 81% and 83% of the company total accounts receivable, respectively. resale of product through avnet accounted for 55%, 61% and 67% of the company worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. we also use other regional distributors throughout the world. from time to time, we may add or terminate distributors in specific geographies, as we deem appropriate given the level of business, their performance and financial condition. we believe distributors provide a cost-effective means of reaching a broad range of customers while providing efficient logistics services. since plds are standard products, they do not present many of the inventory risks to distributors posed by custom gate arrays, and they simplify the requirements for distributor technical support. see note 2. summary of significant accounting policies and concentrations of risk to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, for information about concentrations of credit risk and note 17. segment information for information about our revenues from external customers and domestic and international operations. backlog as of march 28, 2009, our backlog from oem customers and backlog from end customers reported by our distributors scheduled for delivery within the next three months was $162.0 million, compared to $202.0 million as of march 29, 2008. orders from end customers to our distributors are subject to changes in delivery schedules or to cancellation without significant penalty. as a result, backlogs from both oem customers and end customers reported by our distributors as of any particular period may not be a reliable indicator of revenue for any future period. wafer fabrication as a fabless semiconductor company, we do not manufacture wafers used for our ic products or proms. rather, we purchase wafers from multiple foundries including united microelectronics corporation (umc), toshiba corporation (toshiba), seiko epson corporation (seiko), samsung electronics co., ltd. and he jian technology (suzhou) co., ltd. currently, umc manufactures the substantial majority of our wafers. precise terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by our periodic negotiations with the wafer foundries. our strategy is to focus our resources on market development and creating new ics and software design tools rather than on wafer fabrication. we continuously evaluate opportunities to enhance foundry relationships and/or obtain additional capacity from our main suppliers as well as other suppliers of leading-edge process technologies. in september 1995, we entered into a joint venture with umc and other parties to construct a wafer fabrication facility in taiwan, known as united silicon inc. (usic). in january 2000, as a result of the merger of usic into umc, our equity position in usic was converted into shares of umc, which are publicly traded on the taiwan stock exchange. in fiscal 2007, we sold a portion of our umc shares and we sold the remaining shares of our umc investment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. 8 in fiscal 1997, we signed a wafer purchasing agreement with seiko. seiko manufactures wafers for some of our most mature product lines. in october 2004, the company entered into an advanced purchase agreement with toshiba under which the company paid toshiba a total of $100.0 million in two equal installments for advance payment of silicon wafers produced under the agreement. the original agreement was extended to december 2008. the balance of the advance payment remaining was zero as of march 28, 2009. sort, assembly and test wafers purchased are sorted by the foundry, independent sort subcontractors, or by xilinx. sorted die are assembled by subcontractors. during the assembly process, the wafers are separated into individual die, which are then assembled into various package types. following assembly, the packaged units are tested by xilinx personnel at our san jose, california, dublin, ireland or singapore facilities or by independent test subcontractors. we purchase most of our assembly and some of our testing services from siliconware precision industries ltd. in taiwan, amkor technology, inc. in korea and the philippines and stats chippac ltd. in singapore. quality certification xilinx has achieved quality management systems certification for iso 9001:2000 for our facilities in san jose, california, dublin, ireland, longmont, colorado, singapore and albuquerque, new mexico. in addition, xilinx achieved iso 14001, tl 9000 and ts 16949 environmental and quality certifications in the san jose, dublin and singapore locations, tl 9000 certifications in the longmont and albuquerque locations and ts 16949 certifications in the albuquerque and hyderabad, india locations. patents and licenses while our various proprietary intellectual property rights are important to our success, we believe our business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. as of march 28, 2009, we held more than 2,000 issued united states (u.s.) patents, which vary in duration, and over 750 pending u.s. patent applications relating to our proprietary technology. we maintain an active program of filing for additional patents in the areas of, but not limited to, circuits, software, ic architecture, system design, testing methodologies and other technologies relating to plds. we have licensed some parties to certain portions of our patent portfolio and obtained licenses to certain third-party patents as well. we have acquired various licenses from third parties to certain technologies that are implemented in ip cores or embedded in our plds, such as processors. those licenses support our continuing ability to make and sell these plds to our customers. we also sublicense certain third-party proprietary software and open-source software, such as compilers, for our design tools. continued use of those software components is important to the operation of the design tools upon which customers depend. we maintain the xilinx trade name as well as numerous trademarks and registered trademarks including xilinx, virtex, spartan, ise, and associated logos. maintaining these rights, and the goodwill associated with these trademarks and logos, is important to our business. we also have license rights to use certain trademarks owned by consortiums and other trademark owners that are related to our products and business. we intend to protect our intellectual property vigorously. we believe that failure to enforce our intellectual property rights (including, for example, patents, copyrights and trademarks) or failure to protect our trade secrets effectively could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in the future, we may incur potentially significant litigation expenses to defend against claims of infringement or to enforce our intellectual property rights against third parties. however, any such litigation may or may not be successful. employees as of march 28, 2009, we had 3,145 employees compared to 3,415 as of the end of the prior fiscal year. none of our employees are represented by a labor union. we have not experienced any work stoppages and believe we maintain good employee relations. competition our plds compete in the logic ic industry, an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion. we expect increased competition from our primary pld competitors, altera corporation (altera), lattice semiconductor corporation (lattice) and actel corporation (actel), from the asic market, which has been ongoing since the inception of fpgas, from the assp market, and from new companies that may enter the traditional programmable logic market segment. other competitors include manufacturers of: 9 high-density programmable logic products characterized by fpga-type architectures; high-volume and low-cost fpgas as programmable replacements for asics and assps; asics and assps with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; high-speed, low-density cplds; high-performance dsp devices; products with embedded processors; products with embedded multi-gigabit transceivers; and other new or emerging programmable logic products. we believe that important competitive factors in the logic ic industry include: product pricing; time-to-market; product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density; field upgradability; adaptability of products to specific applications; ease of use and functionality of software design tools; availability and functionality of predefined ip cores of logic; inventory management; access to leading-edge process technology and assembly capacity; and ability to provide timely customer service and support. our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high-volume, low-cost and low-power applications as well as high-performance, high-density applications. in addition, we anticipate continued price reductions proportionate with our ability to lower the cost for established products. we also recognize that different applications require different programmable technologies, and we are developing architectures, processes and products to meet these varying customer needs. to the extent that our efforts to compete are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. executive officers of the registrant certain information regarding the executive officers of xilinx as of june 1, 2009 is set forth below: name age position moshe n. gavrielov 54 president and chief executive officer (ceo) scott r. hover-smoot 54 vice president, general counsel and secretary jon a. olson 55 senior vice president, finance and chief financial officer (cfo) victor peng 49 senior vice president, programmable platforms development raja g. petrakian 45 senior vice president, worldwide operations vincent f. ratford 57 senior vice president, worldwide marketing vincent l. tong 47 senior vice president, worldwide quality and new product introductions frank a. tornaghi 54 senior vice president, worldwide sales there are no family relationships among the executive officers of the company or the board of directors. moshe n. gavrielov joined the company in january 2008 as president and ceo and was appointed to the board of directors in february 2008. prior to joining the company, he served at cadence design systems, inc., an electronic design automation company, as executive vice president and general manager of the verification division from april 2005 through november 2007. mr. gavrielov served as ceo of verisity ltd., an electronic design automation company, from march 1998 to april 2005 prior to its acquisition by cadence design systems, inc. prior to joining verisity, mr. gavrielov spent nearly 10 years at lsi corporation (formerly lsi logic corporation), a semiconductor manufacturer, in a variety of executive management positions, including executive vice president of the products group, senior vice president and general manager of international marketing and sales and senior vice president and general manager of lsi logic europe plc. prior to joining lsi corporation, mr. gavrielov held various engineering and engineering management positions at digital equipment corporation and national semiconductor corporation. scott r. hover-smoot joined the company in october 2007 as vice president, general counsel and secretary. from november 2001 to october 2007, mr. hover-smoot served as regional counsel and director of legal operations with taiwan semiconductor manufacturing company, ltd., an independent semiconductor foundry. he served as vice president and general counsel of california micro devices corporation, a provider of application-specific protection devices and display electronics devices from june 10 1994 to november 2001. prior to joining california micro devices corporation, mr. hover-smoot spent over 20 years working in law firms including berliner-cohen, flehr, hohbach, test, albritton &amp; herbert, and lyon &amp; lyon. jon a. olson joined the company in june 2005 as vice president, finance and cfo. mr. olson was promoted to his current position of senior vice president, finance and cfo in august 2006. prior to joining the company, mr. olson spent more than 25 years at intel corporation, a semiconductor chip maker, serving in a variety of positions, including vice president, finance and enterprise services, director of finance. victor peng joined the company in april 2008 as senior vice president, silicon engineering group and assumed his current position of senior vice president, programmable platforms development in november 2008. prior to joining the company, mr. peng served as corporate vice president, graphics products group at advanced micro devices (amd), a provider of processing solutions, from november 2005 to april 2008. before joining amd, mr. peng served as vice president of silicon engineering in the graphics products group business unit at ati technologies, a graphics processor unit provider, from april 2005 until its acquisition by amd. before joining ati technologies, mr. peng served as vice president of engineering at tzero technologies, a fabless semiconductor company, from september 2004 to april 2005. from november 2000 to september 2004, mr. peng served as vice president of engineering at mips technologies, a semiconductor design ip company. raja g. petrakian joined the company in october 1995 and has served in a number of key roles within operations, most recently as senior director of supply chain management and vice president of supply chain management. dr. petrakian was promoted to his current position of senior vice president, worldwide operations in march 2009. prior to joining xilinx, dr. petrakian spent more than three years at the ibm t.j. research center serving as a research staff member in the manufacturing research department. vincent f. ratford joined the company in january 2006 as vice president of marketing, business development and silicon architecture. mr. ratford was promoted to vice president and general manager in october 2007. he was promoted to senior vice president, solutions development group in april 2008 and assumed his current position of senior vice president, worldwide marketing in november 2008. prior to joining the company, he served as president and ceo of accelchip, inc. (accelchip), a provider of synthesis software tools for designing dsp systems, from july 2004 until its acquisition by xilinx in january 2006. prior to that, mr. ratford operated the consulting firm, deeptech consulting, from april 2002 to july 2004. mr. ratford worked at virage logic corporation, a provider of semiconductor ip, as vice president of marketing and business development from july 2000 to april 2002 and as vice president of sales and marketing from february 1998 to july 2000. before joining virage logic, mr. ratford served as chief operating officer of the microtec division of mentor graphics, a provider of hardware and software design solutions to semiconductor companies, from october 1995 to december 1997. before joining the microtec division, he was director of marketing for mentor graphics system design division from may 1993 to october 1995. vincent l. tong joined the company in may 1990 and has served in a number of key roles, most recently as vice president of product technology and as vice president, worldwide quality and reliability. in april 2008, he was promoted to his current position of senior vice president, worldwide quality and new product introductions. prior to joining the company, mr. tong served in a variety of engineering positions at monolithic memories, a producer of logic devices, and amd. mr. tong serves on the board of the global semiconductor alliance, a non-profit semiconductor organization. frank a. tornaghi joined the company in february 2008 as vice president, worldwide sales and was promoted to his current position of senior vice president, worldwide sales in april 2008. prior to joining the company, mr. tornaghi spent 22 years at lsi corporation. mr. tornaghi acted as an independent consultant from april 2006 until he joined the company. he served as executive vice president, worldwide sales at lsi corporation from july 2001 to april 2006 and as vice president, north america sales, from may 1993 to july 2001. from 1984 until may 1993, mr. tornaghi held various management positions in sales at lsi corporation. additional information our internet address is www.xilinx.com. we make available, via a link through our investor relations website located at www.investor.xilinx.com, access to our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the u.s. securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (exchange act) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission (sec). all such filings on our investor relations website are available free of charge. printed copies of these documents are also available to stockholders without charge, upon written request directed to xilinx, inc., attn: investor relations, 2100 logic drive, san jose, ca 95124. further, a copy of this annual report on form 10-k is located at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., room 1580, washington, d.c. 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room can be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings at http://www.sec.gov. the content on any website referred to in this filing is not incorporated by reference into this filing unless expressly noted otherwise. 11 additional information required by this item 1 is incorporated by reference to the section captioned net revenues net revenues by geography in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and to note 17. segment information to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. this annual report includes trademarks and service marks of xilinx and other companies that are unregistered and registered in the united states and other countries. item 1a. risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks to the company. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or that the company management currently deems immaterial also may impair its business operations. if any of the risks described below were to occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. general economic conditions and the related deterioration in the global business environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. global consumer confidence has eroded amidst concerns over declining asset values, inflation, volatility in energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, rising unemployment, and the stability and solvency of financial institutions, financial markets, businesses and sovereign nations, among other concerns. these concerns have slowed global economic growth and have resulted in recessions in numerous countries, including many of those in north america, europe and asia. recent economic conditions had a negative impact on our results of operations during the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2009 due to reduced customer demand and it is unclear when economic conditions will improve. as these economic conditions continue to persist, or if they worsen, a number of negative effects on our business could result, including customers or potential customers reducing or delaying orders, the insolvency of key suppliers, which could result in production delays, the inability of customers to obtain credit, and the insolvency of one or more customers. any of these effects could impact our ability to effectively manage inventory levels and collect receivables and ultimately decrease our net revenues and profitability. the semiconductor industry is characterized by cyclical market patterns and a significant industry downturn could adversely affect our operating results . the semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and our financial performance has been affected by downturns in the industry, including the current downturn. down cycles are generally characterized by price erosion and weaker demand for our products. weaker demand for our products resulting from economic conditions in the end markets we serve and reduced capital spending by our customers can result, and in the past has resulted in excess and obsolete inventories and corresponding inventory write-downs. we attempt to identify changes in market conditions as soon as possible; however, the dynamics of the market make prediction of and timely reaction to such events difficult. due to these and other factors, our past results are much less reliable predictors of the future than for companies in older, more stable industries. the nature of our business makes our revenues difficult to predict which could have an adverse impact on our business. in addition to the challenging market conditions we may face, we have limited visibility into the demand for our products, particularly new products, because demand for our products depends upon our products being designed into our end customers products and those products achieving market acceptance. due to the complexity of our customers designs, the design to volume production process for our customers requires a substantial amount of time, frequently longer than a year. in addition, we are increasingly dependent upon turns, orders received and turned for shipment in the same quarter, and we have historically derived a significant portion of our quarterly revenue during the last weeks of the quarter. these factors make it difficult for us to forecast future sales and project quarterly revenues. the difficulty in forecasting future sales impairs our ability to project our inventory requirements, which could result, and in the past has resulted in inventory write-downs or failure to timely meet customer product demands. in addition, difficulty in forecasting revenues compromises our ability to provide forward-looking revenue and earnings guidance. global economic conditions, the economic conditions of the countries in which we operate and currency fluctuations could have a material adverse affect on our business and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. in addition to our u.s. operations, we also have significant international operations, including foreign sales offices to support our international customers and distributors, our regional headquarters in ireland and singapore and a research and development site in india. in connection with the restructuring we announced in april 2009, we expect our international operations to grow as we relocate certain operations and administrative functions. sales and operations outside of the u.s. subject us to the risks associated with conducting business in foreign economic and regulatory environments. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in countries in which we do significant business or by changes in foreign currency exchange rates affecting those countries. the company derives over one-half of its revenues from international sales, 12 primarily in the asia pacific region, europe and japan. past and current economic weakness in these markets adversely affected revenues. the timing and nature of economic recovery in these markets as well as in the u.s. remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that global market conditions will improve in the near future. sales to all direct oems and distributors are denominated in u.s. dollars. while the recent movement of the euro and yen against the u.s. dollar had no material impact to our business, increased volatility could impact our european and japanese customers. currency instability and recent volatility and disruptions in the credit and capital markets may increase credit risks for some of our customers and may impair our customers' ability to repay existing obligations. increased currency volatility could also positively or negatively impact our foreign-currency-denominated costs, assets and liabilities. in addition, devaluation of the u.s. dollar relative to other foreign currencies may increase the operating expenses of our foreign subsidiaries adversely affecting our results of operations. furthermore, because we are increasingly dependent on the global economy, instability in worldwide economic environments occasioned, for example, by political instability, terrorist activity or u.s. military actions could impact economic activity and lead to a contraction of capital spending by our customers. any or all of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and changes in credit rating and in the market values of our portfolio investments which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. our cash, short-term and long-term investments represent significant assets that may be subject to fluctuating or even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements, changes in credit rating and financial market conditions. since september 2007, the global credit markets have experienced adverse conditions that have negatively impacted the values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities. the global credit and capital markets have recently experienced further significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system and the current uncertainty related to global economic conditions. as of march 28, 2009, less than 7% of our $1.58 billion investment portfolio consisted of asset-backed securities and approximately 11% of the portfolio consisted of mortgage-backed securities. asset-backed securities consisted of student loan auction rate securities and other asset-backed securities. approximately 4% of our investment portfolio consisted of student loan auction rate securities and all of these securities are rated aaa with the exception of approximately 14% that were downgraded to a rating during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. more than 98% of the underlying assets that secure the student loan auction rate securities are pools of student loans originated under the federal family education loan program (ffelp) that are substantially guaranteed by the u.s. department of education. these securities experienced failed auctions in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 due to liquidity issues in the global credit markets. in a failed auction, the interest rates are reset to a maximum rate defined by the contractual terms for each security. we have collected and expect to collect all interest payable on these securities when due. during fiscal 2009, $1.4 million of these student loan auction rate securities were redeemed for cash by the issuers at par value. beginning with the quarter ended march 29, 2008, the student loan auction rate securities were reclassified from short-term to long-term investments on the consolidated balance sheets since there can be no assurance of a successful auction in the future. the final maturity dates range from march 2023 to november 2047. all other asset-backed securities comprised less than 3% of our investment portfolio as of march 28, 2009, of which approximately 9% are aaa rated with the majority of the rest of the asset-backed securities rated a or bbb. these asset-backed securities are secured primarily by bank, finance and insurance company obligations, collateralized loan and bank obligations, credit card debt and mortgage-backed securities with no direct u.s. subprime mortgage exposure. substantially all of the other mortgage-backed securities in the investment portfolio are aaa rated, were issued by u.s. government-sponsored enterprises and agencies and represented approximately 11% of the investment portfolio as of march 28, 2009. as a result of these recent adverse conditions in the global credit markets, there is a risk that we may incur additional other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments such as asset-backed securities should the credit markets experience further deterioration or the underlying assets fail to perform as anticipated due to the continued or worsening global economic conditions. our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair values of our debt securities is judged to be other than temporary. furthermore, we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or financial market conditions. see note 4. financial instruments to our consolidated financial statements, included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, for a table of our available-for-sale securities. we are subject to the risks associated with conducting business operations outside of the u.s. which could adversely affect our business. in addition to international sales and support operations and development activities, we purchase our wafers from foreign foundries and have our commercial products assembled, packaged and tested by subcontractors located outside the u.s. in connection with the restructuring we announced in april 2009, we expect these subcontractor activities to increase. all of these activities are subject to the uncertainties associated with international business operations, including tax laws and regulations, trade barriers, economic sanctions, import and export regulations, duties and tariffs and other trade restrictions, changes in trade policies, foreign governmental regulations, reduced protection for ip, longer receivable collection periods and disruptions or delays in production or shipments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. additional factors that could adversely affect us due to our international operations include rising oil prices and increased costs of natural resources. moreover, our financial condition and results of operations could be affected in the event of political conflicts or economic crises in 13 countries where our main wafer providers, end customers and contract manufacturers who provide assembly and test services worldwide, are located. adverse change to the circumstances or conditions of our international business operations could have a material adverse effect on our business. our success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products and failure to do so would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. our success depends in large part on our ability to develop and introduce new products that address customer requirements and compete effectively on the basis of price, density, functionality, power consumption and performance. the success of new product introductions is dependent upon several factors, including: timely completion of new product designs; ability to generate new design opportunities or design wins ; availability of specialized field application engineering resources supporting demand creation and customer adoption of new products; ability to utilize advanced manufacturing process technologies on circuit geometries of 65nm and smaller; achieving acceptable yields; ability to obtain adequate production capacity from our wafer foundries and assembly and test subcontractors; ability to obtain advanced packaging; availability of supporting software design tools; utilization of predefined ip cores of logic; customer acceptance of advanced features in our new products; and market acceptance of our customers products. our product development efforts may not be successful, our new products may not achieve industry acceptance and we may not achieve the necessary volume of production that would lead to further per unit cost reductions. revenues relating to our mature products are expected to decline in the future, which is normal for our product life cycles. as a result, we may be increasingly dependent on revenues derived from design wins for our newer products as well as anticipated cost reductions in the manufacture of our current products. we rely primarily on obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture of existing products and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and other price/performance factors that enable us to increase revenues while maintaining consistent margins. to the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner, or to the extent that our products do not achieve market acceptance at prices with higher margins, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we are dependent on independent foundries for the manufacture of all of our products and a manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could adversely affect our operations. during fiscal 2009, nearly all of our wafers were manufactured either in taiwan, by umc or in japan, by toshiba or seiko. terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations between xilinx and these wafer foundries, which usually result in short-term agreements that do not provide for long-term supply or allocation commitments. we are dependent on these foundries, especially umc, which supplies the substantial majority of our wafers. we rely on umc to produce wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes. these attributes include an ability to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies and increased wafer sizes, produce wafers at acceptable yields and deliver them in a timely manner. we cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our wafers will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies or difficulties due to limitations of new and existing process technologies. furthermore, we cannot guarantee the foundries will be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products. in addition, current economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of the foundries and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us. the insolvency of a foundry or any significant manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity would disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. we have established other sources of wafer supply for our products in an effort to secure a continued supply of wafers. however, establishing, maintaining and managing multiple foundry relationships requires the investment of management resources as well as additional costs. if we do not manage these relationships effectively, it could adversely affect our results of operations. increased costs of wafers and materials, or shortages in wafers and materials, could adversely impact our gross margins and lead to reduced revenues. if greater demand for wafers produced by the foundries is not offset by an increase in foundry capacity, or market demand for wafers or production and assembly materials increases, our supply of wafers and other materials could become limited. such shortages raise the likelihood of potential wafer price increases and wafer shortages or shortages in materials at production and test facilities. such 14 increases in wafer prices or materials could adversely affect our gross margins and shortages of wafers and materials would adversely affect our ability to meet customer demands. earthquakes and other natural disasters could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. the independent foundries, upon which we rely to manufacture our products, as well as our california and singapore facilities, are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. umc foundries in taiwan and toshiba and seiko foundries in japan as well as many of our operations in california are centered in areas that have been seismically active in the recent past and some areas have been affected by other natural disasters. any catastrophic event in these locations will disrupt our operations, including our manufacturing activities. this type of disruption could result in our inability to manufacture or ship products, thereby materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, disruption of operations at these foundries for any reason, including other natural disasters such as typhoons, fires or floods, as well as disruptions in access to adequate supplies of electricity, natural gas or water could cause delays in shipments of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we are dependent on independent subcontractors for most of our assembly and test services and unavailability or disruption of these services could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. we are also dependent on subcontractors to provide semiconductor assembly, substrate, test and shipment services. any prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, any disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands. in addition, current economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of these subcontractors and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us. these factors would result in reduced net revenues and could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. if we are not able to successfully compete in our industry, our financial results and future prospects will be adversely affected. our plds compete in the logic ic industry, an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion. we expect increased competition from our primary pld competitors, altera, lattice and actel, from the asic market, which has been ongoing since the inception of fpgas, from the assp market, and from new companies that may enter the traditional programmable logic market segment. we believe that important competitive factors in the logic ic industry include: product pricing; time-to-market; product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density; field upgradability; adaptability of products to specific applications; ease of use and functionality of software design tools; availability and functionality of predefined ip cores of logic; inventory management; access to leading-edge process technology and assembly capacity; and ability to provide timely customer service and support. our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high-volume, low-cost and low-power applications as well as high-performance, high-density applications. in addition, we anticipate continued price reductions proportionate with our ability to lower the cost for established products. however, we may not be successful in achieving these strategies. other competitors include manufacturers of: high-density programmable logic products characterized by fpga-type architectures; high-volume and low-cost fpgas as programmable replacements for asics and assps; asics and assps with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; high-speed, low-density cplds; high-performance dsp devices; products with embedded processors; products with embedded multi-gigabit transceivers; and other new or emerging programmable logic products. 15 several companies have introduced products that compete with ours or have announced their intention to sell pld products. to the extent that our efforts to compete are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the benefits of programmable logic have attracted a number of competitors to this segment. we recognize that different applications require different programmable technologies, and we are developing architectures, processes and products to meet these varying customer needs. recognizing the increasing importance of standard software solutions, we have developed common software design tools that support the full range of our ic products. we believe that automation and ease of design are significant competitive factors in this segment. we could also face competition from our licensees. in the past we have granted limited rights to other companies with respect to certain of our older technology, and we may do so in the future. granting such rights may enable these companies to manufacture and market products that may be competitive with some of our older products. our failure to protect and defend our intellectual property could impair our ability to compete effectively. we rely upon patent, copyright, trade secret, mask work and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property. we cannot provide assurance that such intellectual property rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. from time to time, third parties, including our competitors, have asserted against us patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to us. third parties may assert infringement claims against our indemnitees or us in the future. assertions by third parties may result in costly litigation or indemnity claims and we may not prevail in such matters or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. this could result in the loss of our ability to import and sell our products. any infringement claim, indemnification claim, or impairment or loss of use of our intellectual property could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we rely on information technology systems, and failure of these systems to function properly could result in business disruption. we rely in part on various information technology (it) systems to manage our operations, including financial reporting, and we regularly evaluate these systems and make changes to improve them as necessary. consequently, we periodically implement new, or enhance existing, operational and it systems, procedures and controls. for example, we recently simplified our supply chain and were required to make certain changes to our it systems. any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. further, these systems are subject to power and telecommunication outages or other general system failure. failure of our it systems or difficulties in managing them could result in business disruption. if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls, our stock price could be adversely affected. we are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (the act). our controls necessary for continued compliance with the act may not operate effectively at all times and may result in a material weakness disclosure. the identification of material weaknesses in internal control, if any, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements and could cause investors to lose confidence and our stock price to drop. further, our internal control effectiveness may be impacted upon executing the restructuring plan announced in april 2009 if we are unable to successfully transfer certain control activities and responsibilities to new personnel in different locations. unfavorable results of legal proceedings could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. from time to time we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business. certain claims are not yet resolved, including those that are discussed in item 3. legal proceedings, included in part i, and additional claims may arise in the future. results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. regardless of its merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention and we may enter into material settlements to avoid these risks. should the company fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against us in the same reporting period, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that would materially and adversely affect a portion of our business and might materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. our products could have defects which could result in reduced revenues and claims against us. we develop complex and evolving products that include both hardware and software. despite our testing efforts and those of our subcontractors, defects may be found in existing or new products. these defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair or replacement costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our 16 relationships with customers. product defects or other performance problems could result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and would likely harm our business. our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. a product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly to defend. product liability risks are particularly significant with respect to aerospace, automotive and medical applications because of the risk of serious harm to users of these products. any product liability claim, whether or not determined in our favor, could result in significant expense, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and harm our business. in preparing our financial statements, we make good faith estimates and judgments that may change or turn out to be erroneous. in preparing our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states, we must make estimates and judgments in applying our most critical accounting policies. those estimates and judgments have a significant impact on the results we report in our consolidated financial statements. the most difficult estimates and subjective judgments that we make concern valuation of marketable and non-marketable securities, revenue recognition, inventories, long-lived assets, taxes, legal matters and stock-based compensation. we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. we also have other key accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult, but which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial reporting. actual results may differ materially from these estimates. if these estimates or their related assumptions change, our operating results for the periods in which we revise our estimates or assumptions could be adversely and perhaps materially affected. we depend on distributors, primarily avnet, to generate a majority of our sales and complete order fulfillment. resale of product through avnet accounted for 55% of the company worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2009 and as of march 28, 2009, avnet accounted for 81% of our total accounts receivable. in addition, we are subject to concentrations of credit risk in our trade accounts receivable, which includes accounts of our distributors. a significant reduction of effort by a distributor to sell our products or a material change in our relationship with one or more distributors may reduce our access to certain end customers and adversely affect our ability to sell our products. furthermore, if a key distributor materially defaults on a contract or otherwise fails to perform, our business and financial results would suffer. in addition, the financial health of our distributors and our continuing relationships with them are important to our success. current economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health of some of these distributors, particularly our smaller distributors. this could result in the insolvency of certain distributors, the inability of distributors to obtain credit to finance the purchase of our products, or cause distributors to delay payment of their obligations to us and increase our credit risk exposure. our business could be harmed if the financial health of these distributors impairs their performance and we are unable to secure alternate distributors. reductions in the average selling prices of our products could have a negative impact on our gross margins. the average selling prices of our products generally decline as the products mature. we seek to offset the decrease in selling prices through yield improvement, manufacturing cost reductions and increased unit sales. we also continue to develop higher value products or product features that increase, or slow the decline of, the average selling price of our products. however, there is no guarantee that our ongoing efforts will be successful or that they will keep pace with the decline in selling prices of our products, which could ultimately lead to a decline in revenues and have a negative effect on our gross margins. a number of factors can impact our gross margins. a number of factors, including our product mix, market acceptance of our new products, competitive pricing dynamics, geographic and/or market segment pricing strategies and various manufacturing cost variables cause our gross margins to fluctuate. in addition, forecasting our gross margins is difficult because the majority of our business is based on turns within the same quarter. if we do not successfully implement the restructuring we announced in april 2009, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. in april 2009, we announced restructuring measures and a net reduction in our global workforce by up to 200 positions, which we expect to complete by the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. the positions will be eliminated across a variety of functions and geographies worldwide. the restructuring is designed to drive structural operating efficiencies across the company and will align our company with the evolving geographic distribution of our customers and supply chain. however, if we do not successfully implement this restructuring, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations with regard to our announced restructuring include: 17 the availability and hiring of the appropriately skilled workers in the asia pacific region; the transition of testing and other operational matters to third parties; and/or the timing and execution of our programs and plans related to the restructuring. considerable amounts of our common shares are available for issuance under our equity incentive plans and debentures, and significant issuances in the future may adversely impact the market price of our common shares. as of march 28, 2009, we had 2.00 billion authorized common shares, of which 275.5 million shares were outstanding. in addition, 62.7 million common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to our equity incentive plans and 1990 employee qualified stock purchase plan (employee stock purchase plan), and 22.4 million shares were reserved for issuance upon conversion or repurchase of the 3.125% convertible debentures due march 15, 2037 (debentures). the availability of substantial amounts of our common shares resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity incentive plans or the conversion or repurchase of debentures using common shares, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 37 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data 39 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and 74 financial disclosure item 9a. controls and procedures 74 item 9b. other information 74 part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance 75 item 11. executive compensation 75 item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management 75 and related stockholder matters item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence 77 item 14. principal accountant fees and services 77 part iv item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules 78 signatures 80 2 part i forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements may be found throughout this annual report and particularly in items 1. business and 3. legal proceedings which contain discussions concerning our development efforts, strategy, new product introductions, backlog and litigation. forward-looking statements involve numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed or implied. such risks include, but are not limited to, those discussed throughout this document as well as in item 1a. "risk factors." often, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words, such as may, will, could, should, expect, believe, anticipate, estimate, continue, plan, intend, project and other similar terminology, or the negative of such terms. we disclaim any responsibility to update or revise any forward-looking statement provided in this annual report or in any of our other communications for any reason. item 1. business xilinx, inc. (xilinx or the company) designs, develops and markets complete programmable logic solutions. these solutions have several components: advanced integrated circuits (ics) in the form of programmable logic devices (plds); software design tools to program the plds; predefined system functions delivered as intellectual property (ip) cores; design services; customer training; and field engineering and technical support. our plds include field programmable gate arrays (fpgas) and complex programmable logic devices (cplds) that our customers program to perform desired logic functions. our solutions are designed to provide high integration and quick time-to-market for electronic equipment manufacturers in end markets such as wired and wireless communications, industrial, scientific and medical, aerospace and defense, audio, video and broadcast, consumer, automotive and data processing. we sell our products globally through independent domestic and foreign distributors and through direct sales to original equipment manufacturers (oems) by a network of independent sales representative firms and by a direct sales management organization. xilinx was founded and incorporated in california in february 1984. in april 1990, the company reincorporated in delaware. our corporate facilities and executive offices are located at 2100 logic drive, san jose, california 95124, and our website address is www.xilinx.com. industry overview there are three principal types of ics used in most digital electronic systems: processors, which generally are utilized for control and computing tasks; memory devices, which are used for storing program instructions and data; and logic devices, which generally are used to manage the interchange and manipulation of digital signals within a system. xilinx develops plds, a type of logic device. alternatives to plds include custom gate arrays, application specific integrated circuits (asics) and application specific standard products (assps). these devices all compete with each other since they may be utilized in many of the same types of applications within electronic systems. however, variations in unit pricing, development cost, product performance, reliability, power consumption, density, functionality, ease of use and time-to-market determine the degree to which the devices compete for specific applications. the primary advantage plds have over custom gate arrays, asics and assps is that plds enable faster time-to-market because of their shorter design cycles. users can program the pld to implement their design, using software to create and revise their designs relatively quickly with lower development costs. plds typically have a larger die size resulting in higher costs per unit compared to custom gate arrays, asics and assps, which are customized to perform a limited fixed function. custom gate arrays, asics and assps, however, generally offer less flexibility, require longer design cycles and higher up-front costs than plds. plds are standard components. this means that the same device type can be sold to many different users for many different applications. as a result, the development cost of plds can be spread over a large number of users. custom gate arrays, asics and assps, on the other hand, are custom chips for an individual user for use in a specific application. assps implement specific functions for a limited set of users. this involves a high up-front cost to users. technology advances are enabling pld companies to reduce costs considerably, making plds an increasingly attractive alternative to custom gate arrays, asics and assps. 3 an overview of typical pld end market applications for our products is shown in the following table: end markets sub-segments applications communications wireless 3g/4g base stations wireless backhaul wireline metro area networks optical networks enterprise switches mid-end and high-end routers consumer, automotive, industrial and other consumer flat-panel televisions digital video recorders cable set-top boxes automotive gps navigation systems rear-seat entertainment vision-based driver assistance systems industrial, scientific and medical factory automation medical imaging test and measurement equipment audio, video and broadcast cable head-end systems broadcast equipment video cameras aerospace and defense satellite surveillance radar and sonar systems secure communications data processing storage and servers security and encryption computer peripherals office automation copiers printers products integral to the success of our business is the timely introduction of new products that meet customer requirements and compete effectively with respect to price, functionality, power and performance. software design tools, ip cores, reference platforms, technical support and design services are also critical components that enable our customers to implement their design specifications into our plds. altogether, our plds and related tools, ip, service and support form a comprehensive programmable logic solution. a brief overview of our pld offerings follows and is not all-inclusive but does comprise the majority of our revenues. some of our more mature product families have been excluded from the table although they continue to generate revenues. we operate and track our results in one operating segment for financial reporting purposes. 4 product families process fpgas date introduced densities technology voltage 75k to 760k virtex -6 february 2009 logic cells 40-nanometer (nm) 1.0v, 0.9v 20k to 330k virtex-5 may 2006 logic cells 65nm 1.0v 12k to 200k virtex-4 june 2004 logic cells 90nm 1.2v 3k to 99k virtex-ii pro march 2002 logic cells 130nm 1.5v 576 to 104k virtex-ii january 2001 logic cells 150nm 1.5v 1.7k to 73k virtex-e september 1999 logic cells 180nm 1.8v 4k to 150k logic spartan -6 february 2009 cells 45nm 1.2v, 1.0v 1.6k to 54k spartan-3a december 2006 logic cells 90nm 1.2v 2.2k to 33.2k spartan-3e march 2005 logic cells 90nm 1.2v 1.7k to 75k logic spartan-3 april 2003 cells 90nm 1.2v 1.7k to 16k logic spartan-iie november 2001 cells 150nm 1.8v process cplds date introduced densities technology voltage 32 to 512 coolrunner -ii january 2002 macrocells 180nm 1.8v 32 to 512 coolrunner august 1999 macrocells 350nm 3.3v virtex fpgas the virtex-6 fpga family consists of 13 devices and is the sixth generation in the virtex series of fpgas. virtex-6 fpgas are fabricated on a high-performance, 40-nm process technology. the virtex-6 family is comprised of three domain-optimized platforms to deliver different feature mixes to address a variety of markets as follows: lxt platform: for applications that require high-performance logic, digital signal processing (dsp), and serial connectivity; sxt platform: for applications that require ultra high-performance dsp and serial connectivity; hxt platform: for communications applications that require the highest-speed serial connectivity. the virtex-5 fpga family consists of 26 devices and five platforms: virtex-5 lx fpgas for logic-intensive designs, virtex-5 lxt fpgas for high-performance logic with serial connectivity, virtex-5 sxt fpgas for high-performance dsp with serial connectivity, virtex-5 fxt fpgas for embedded processing with serial connectivity and virtex-5 txt fpgas for high-bandwidth serial connectivity. prior generation virtex families include virtex-4, virtex-ii pro, virtex-ii, virtex-e and the original virtex family. 5 spartan fpgas the sixth generation in the spartan fpga series, the spartan-6 fpga family, is fabricated on a low-power 45-nm process technology. the spartan-6 family is the pld industry first 45-nm high-volume fpga family. the family consists of 11 devices and is delivered on two fpga platforms to address diverse market and application requirements as follows: lx platform: for applications that require cost-effective logic, memory and dsp; lxt platform: for applications that require lx features plus high-speed serial transceivers. spartan-3 fpgas were the pld industry first 90-nm fpgas and are comprised of three platforms including the original spartan-3 family, the spartan-3e family and the spartan-3a family. prior generation spartan families include spartan-iie, spartan-ii, spartan xl and the original spartan family. easypath fpgas easypath fpgas use the same production masks and fabrication process as standard fpgas and are tested to a specific customer application to improve yield and lower costs. as a result, easypath fpgas provide customers with significant cost reduction when compared to the standard fpga devices without the conversion risk, conversion engineering effort or the additional time required to move to an asic. easypath fpgas are available for the higher density devices of the virtex-ii pro, virtex-4 and virtex-5 families. easypath fpgas will also be available for the higher densities of the virtex-6 family. customers purchasing easypath fpgas must meet certain minimum order requirements and pay a custom test generation charge. cplds cplds operate on the low end of the programmable logic density spectrum. cplds are single chip, nonvolatile solutions characterized by instant-on and universal interconnect. the coolrunner-ii family is the latest generation xilinx cpld family with six devices in production. coolrunner-ii cplds combine the advantages of ultra low power consumption with the benefits of high performance and low cost. while coolrunner-ii is suitable for a wide variety of end markets and applications, the ultra low power consumption and small package profiles of these devices have led to their acceptance in the growing portable consumer electronics marketplace. prior generation cpld families include the coolrunner, xc9500 and xc9500xl, which offer low cost, high performance and in-system programmability for 5.0-volt and 3.3-volt systems, respectively. support products targeted design platforms we offer targeted design platforms comprised of reference designs, target boards, application software, design tools, ip and silicon to reduce our customers development effort. targeted design platforms are organized into three levels: the base platform; the domain-specific platform; and the market-specific platform to offer customers flexibility, accessibility, applicability and time-to-market. the base platform is the delivery vehicle for all new silicon offerings used to develop and run customer-specific software applications and hardware designs. released at launch, the base platform is comprised of: fpga silicon; ise (integrated software environment) design suite design environment; third-party synthesis, simulation, and signal integrity tools; reference designs; development boards and ip. the domain-specific platform targets one of the three primary xilinx fpga user profiles: the embedded processing developer; the dsp developer; or the logic/connectivity developer. it accomplishes this by augmenting the base platform with a targeted set of integrated technologies, including: higher-level design methodologies and tools; domain-specific ip including embedded, dsp and connectivity; domain-specific development hardware and reference designs; and operating systems and software. the market-specific platform enables software or hardware developers to quickly build and run their specific application or solution. built for specific markets such as automotive, consumer, aerospace and defense, communications, audio, video and broadcast, industrial, or scientific and medical, the market-specific platform integrates both the base and domain-specific platforms with higher targeted applications elements such as ip, reference designs and boards optimized for a particular market. 6 design environments to accommodate the various design methodologies and design flows employed by the wide range of our customers user profiles such as system designers, algorithm designers, software coders and logic designers, we provide the appropriate design environment tailored to each user profile for design creation, design implementation and design verification. the xilinx ise design suite features a complete tool chain for the three domain-specific categories: embedded, dsp and logic/connectivity. to further enhance productivity and help customers better manage the complexity of their designs, the ise design suite enables designers to target area, performance, or power by simply selecting a design goal in the setup. the xilinx ise design suite also integrates with a wide range of third-party electronic design automation (eda) software offerings and point-tools. intellectual property xilinx and various third parties offer hundreds of free and for-license ip components to meet timing parameters, including a host of widely used ip such as gige, ethernet, memory controllers, and pcie , as well as an abundance of domain-specific ip, such as embedded, dsp and connectivity, and market-specific ip. development boards, reference designs, kits and configuration products in addition to the broad selection of legacy development boards presently offered, we have introduced a new unified board strategy that enables the creation of a standardized and coordinated set of base boards available both from xilinx and our ecosystem partners, all utilizing the industry-standard extensions. adopting this standard for all of our base boards enables the creation of a unified, scalable and extensible delivery mechanism for all xilinx targeted design platforms. as a part of the targeted design platform support strategy, xilinx has also defined a new class of reference designs called the targeted reference designs that offer a consistent, robust framework that is scalable for customer modification and supported throughout the product lifecycle. we also offer comprehensive development kits including hardware, design tools, ip and reference designs that are designed to streamline and accelerate the development of domain-specific and market-specific applications. finally, xilinx offers a range of configuration products including one-time programmable and in-system programmable storage devices to configure xilinx fpgas. these prom (programmable read-only memory) products support all of our fpga devices. third-party ecosystem xilinx and certain third parties have developed and continue to offer a robust ecosystem of ip, boards, tools, services, and support through the xilinx alliance program. xilinx is also moving forward with these third parties to make targeted design platforms extensible through third-party tools, ip, software, boards, and design services, and leveraged in customer designs. global services xilinx engineering services and our third-party alliance member services enhance the substantial benefits of the targeted design platforms by allowing the customer to focus even more on their core competencies, realize additional time-to-market efficiencies and reduce their fixed engineering costs. these services provide customers with engineering resources to augment their design team and to provide expert design-specific advice. xilinx tailors its engineering services to the needs of its customer, ranging from hands-on training to full design creation and implementation. see information under the caption results of operations net revenues in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for information about our revenues from our product families. research and development our research and development (r&amp;d) activities are primarily directed towards the design of new ics, the development of new software design automation tools for hardware and embedded software, the design of logic ip cores, the adoption of advanced semiconductor manufacturing processes for ongoing cost reductions, performance and signal integrity improvements and the lowering of pld power consumption. as a result of our r&amp;d efforts, we have introduced a number of new products during the past several years including the virtex-6, virtex-5 and spartan-6 families. additionally, we have made enhancements to our ip core offerings and introduced new versions of our ise design suite. we extended our collaboration with our foundry suppliers in the development of 65-nm, 45-nm and 40-nm complementary metal oxide semiconductor (cmos) manufacturing technology and we were the first company in the pld industry to ship 65-nm and 45-nm high-volume fpga devices. 7 our r&amp;d challenge is to continue to develop new products that create cost-effective solutions for customers. in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, our r&amp;d expenses were $355.4 million, $358.1 million and $388.1 million, respectively. we believe technical leadership and innovation are essential to our future success and we are committed to maintaining a significant level of r&amp;d investment. sales and distribution we sell our products to oems and to electronic components distributors who resell these products to oems or contract manufacturers. we use dedicated global sales and marketing organizations as well as independent sales representatives to generate sales. in general, we focus our direct demand creation efforts on a limited number of key accounts with independent sales representatives often addressing those customers in defined territories. distributors create demand within the balance of our customer base. distributors also provide vendor-managed inventory, value-added services and logistics for a wide range of our oem customers. whether xilinx, the independent sales representative, or the distributor identifies the sales opportunity, a local distributor will process and fulfill the majority of all customer orders. in such situations, distributors are the sellers of the products and as such they bear all legal and financial risks generally related to the sale of commercial goods, such as credit loss, inventory shrinkage and theft, as well as foreign currency fluctuations, but excluding indemnity and warranty liability. in accordance with our distribution agreements and industry practice, we have granted the distributors the contractual right to return certain amounts of unsold product on a periodic basis and also receive price adjustments for unsold product in the case of a subsequent change in list prices. revenue recognition on shipments to distributors worldwide is deferred until the products are sold to the distributors end customers. avnet, inc. (avnet) distributes the substantial majority of our products worldwide. no end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 or 2007. as of march 28, 2009 and march 29, 2008, avnet accounted for 81% and 83% of the company total accounts receivable, respectively. resale of product through avnet accounted for 55%, 61% and 67% of the company worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. we also use other regional distributors throughout the world. from time to time, we may add or terminate distributors in specific geographies, as we deem appropriate given the level of business, their performance and financial condition. we believe distributors provide a cost-effective means of reaching a broad range of customers while providing efficient logistics services. since plds are standard products, they do not present many of the inventory risks to distributors posed by custom gate arrays, and they simplify the requirements for distributor technical support. see note 2. summary of significant accounting policies and concentrations of risk to our consolidated financial statements, included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our investment portfolio, which consists of fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $1.24 billion as of march 28, 2009. our primary aim with our investment portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal and meeting liquidity needs. our investment portfolio includes municipal bonds, floating rate notes, mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities, bank certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate bonds, student loan auction rate securities and u.s. and foreign government and agency securities. in accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer based upon the issuer credit rating. these securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. a hypothetical 100 basis-point (one percentage point) increase or decrease in interest rates compared to rates at march 28, 2009 and march 29, 2008 would have affected the fair value of our investment portfolio by less than $6.0 million and $9.0 million, respectively. credit market risk since september 2007, the global credit markets have experienced adverse conditions that have negatively impacted the values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities. the global credit and capital markets have recently experienced further significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system and the current uncertainty related to global economic conditions. as a result of these recent adverse conditions in the global credit markets, there is a risk that we may incur additional other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments such as asset-backed securities should the credit markets experience further deterioration. see note 4. financial instruments to our consolidated financial statements, included in