quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk " --> item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk related to fluctuations in interest rates, market prices and foreign currency exchange rates. we use certain derivative financial instruments to manage these risks. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. all financial instruments are used in accordance with board-approved policies. market interest and interest income risk interest and investment income as of april 30, 2002, we had short-term investments of $243.4 million. our investment portfolio primarily consists of highly liquid investments with original maturities at the date of purchase of greater than three months which are classified as available-for-sale, and investment in marketable equity securities in certain technology companies. these highly liquid investments, consisting primarily of government and corporate debt securities, are subject to interest rate and interest income risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates from levels at april 30, 2002, would cause the fair value of these short-term investments to decline by approximately $0.5 million. because we have the ability to hold these investments until maturity we would not expect any significant decline in value of our investments caused by market interest rate changes. declines in interest rates over time will, however, reduce our interest income. we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. market price risk equity securities we are also exposed to market price risk on our equity security included in our short-term investments. such investment is in a publicly traded company in the volatile high-technology industry sector. we do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure on this security and, as a result, the amount of income and cash flow that we ultimately realize from this investment in future periods may vary materially from the current unrealized amount. a 50% adverse change in the equity price would result in an approximate $0.3 million decrease in the fair value of our equity security as of april 30, 2002. the hypothetical changes and assumptions discussed above will be different from what actually occurs in the future. furthermore, such computations do not anticipate actions that may be taken by management, should the hypothetical market changes actually occur over time. as a result, the effect on actual earnings in the future will differ from those described above. foreign currency exchange rate risk we hedge risks associated with foreign currency transactions in order to minimize the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on earnings. we utilize forward contracts to hedge against the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. all hedge instruments are marked to market through earnings every period. we believe that these forward contracts do not subject us to undue risk due to foreign exchange movements because gains and losses on these contracts are offset by losses and gains on the underlying assets and liabilities. all contracts have a maturity of less than one year and we do not defer any gains and losses, as they are all accounted for through earnings every period. the following table provides information about our foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding on april 30, 2002, (in thousands): foreign contract currency value fair value currency buy/sell amount usd in usd aud sell 8,296 $ 4,472 $ 4,484 chf sell 3,155 $ 1,945 $ 1,945 gbp sell 13,270 $ 19,309 $ 19,347 eur sell 72,311 $ 64,733 $ 64,827 35 table of contents the following table provides information about our foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding on april 30, 2001, (in thousands): foreign contract currency value fair value currency buy/sell amount usd in usd aud sell 17,312 $ 8,693 $ 8,733 chf sell 5,300 $ 3,082 $ 3,048 gbp sell 18,085 $ 25,845 $ 25,878 eur sell 50,728 $ 44,324 $ 44,726 36 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk " --> item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk related to fluctuations in interest rates, market prices and foreign currency exchange rates. we use certain derivative financial instruments to manage these risks. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. all financial instruments are used in accordance with board-approved policies. market interest and interest income risk interest and investment income as of april 30, 2002, we had short-term investments of $243.4 million. our investment portfolio primarily consists of highly liquid investments with original maturities at the date of purchase of greater than three months which are classified as available-for-sale, and investment in marketable equity securities in certain technology companies. these highly liquid investments, consisting primarily of government and corporate debt securities, are subject to interest rate and interest income risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates from levels at april 30, 2002, would cause the fair value of these short-term investments to decline by approximately $0.5 million. because we have the ability to hold these investments until maturity we would not expect any significant decline in value of our investments caused by market interest rate changes. declines in interest rates over time will, however, reduce our interest income. we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. market price risk equity securities we are also exposed to market price risk on our equity security included in our short-term investments. such investment is in a publicly traded company in the volatile high-technology industry sector. we do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure on this security and, as a result, the amount of income and cash flow that we ultimately realize from this investment in future periods may vary materially from the current unrealized amount. a 50% adverse change in the equity price would result in an approximate $0.3 million decrease in the fair value of our equity security as of april 30, 2002. the hypothetical changes and assumptions discussed above will be different from what actually occurs in the future. furthermore, such computations do not anticipate actions that may be taken by management, should the hypothetical market changes actually occur over time. as a result, the effect on actual earnings in the future will differ from those described above. foreign currency exchange rate risk we hedge risks associated with foreign currency transactions in order to minimize the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on earnings. we utilize forward contracts to hedge against the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. all hedge instruments are marked to market through earnings every period. we believe that these forward contracts do not subject us to undue risk due to foreign exchange movements because gains and losses on these contracts are offset by losses and gains on the underlying assets and liabilities. all contracts have a maturity of less than one year and we do not defer any gains and losses, as they are all accounted for through earnings every period. the following table provides information about our foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding on april 30, 2002, (in thousands): foreign contract currency value fair value currency buy/sell amount usd in usd aud sell 8,296 $ 4,472 $ 4,484 chf sell 3,155 $ 1,945 $ 1,945 gbp sell 13,270 $ 19,309 $ 19,347 eur sell 72,311 $ 64,733 $ 64,827 15 table of contents the following table provides information about our foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding on april 30, 2001, (in thousands): foreign contract currency value fair value currency buy/sell amount usd in usd aud sell 17,312 $ 8,693 $ 8,733 chf sell 5,300 $ 3,082 $ 3,048 gbp sell 18,085 $ 25,845 $ 25,878 eur sell 50,728 $ 44,324 $ 44,726 16 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk related to fluctuations in interest rates, market prices and foreign currency exchange rates. we use certain derivative financial instruments to manage these risks. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. all financial instruments are used in accordance with management-approved policies. market interest and interest income risk interest and investment income as of april 30, 2003, we had short-term investments of $334.7 million. our investment portfolio primarily consists of highly liquid investments with original maturities at the date of purchase of greater than three months, which are classified as available-for-sale, and investment in marketable equity securities in primarily technology companies. these highly liquid investments, consisting primarily of government and corporate debt securities, are subject to interest rate and interest income risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. a hypothetical 10% increase in market interest rates from levels at april 30, 2003, would cause the fair value of these short-term investments to decline by approximately $0.7 million. because we have the ability to hold these investments until maturity we would not expect any significant decline in value of our investments caused by market interest rate changes. declines in interest rates over time will, however, reduce our interest income. we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. market price risk equity securities we are also exposed to market price risk on our equity securities included in our short-term investments, which are primarily in publicly traded companies in the volatile high-technology industry sector. in fiscal 2003, we recorded a non-cash, other-than-temporary write-down of $0.7 million related to the impairment of our investment in a publicly traded company. in fiscal 2002, we recorded a noncash, other-than-temporary write-down of $13.0 million related to impairments in publicly traded and private companies. we do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure on these securities and, as a result, the amount of income and cash flow that we ultimately realize from our investment in future periods may vary materially from the current fair value. a 50% adverse change in the equity price would result in an approximate $0.1 million decrease in the fair value of our equity security as of april 30, 2003. the hypothetical changes and assumptions discussed above will be different from what actually occurs in the future. furthermore, such computations do not anticipate actions that may be taken by management, 40 table of contents should the hypothetical market changes actually occur over time. as a result, the effect on actual earnings in the future will differ from those described above. foreign currency exchange rate risk and foreign exchange forward contracts we hedge risks associated with foreign currency transactions in order to minimize the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on earnings. we utilize forward contracts to hedge against the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. all balance sheet hedges are marked to market through earnings every period. we also use foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge foreign currency forecasted transactions related to certain sales and operating expenses. these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges under sfas 133. for cash flow hedges, the gains or losses were included in other comprehensive income and were not material at april 30, 2003. we do not enter into foreign exchange contracts for speculative or trading purposes. in entering into forward foreign exchange contracts, we have assumed the risk that might arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts. we attempt to limit our exposure to credit risk by executing foreign contracts with credit worthy multinational commercial banks. all contracts have a maturity of less than one year. the following table provides information about our foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding on april 30, 2003 (in thousands): foreign currency contract value fair value currency buy/sell amount usd in usd aud sell 10,332 $ 6,326 $ 6,325 chf sell 2,676 $ 1,962 $ 1,962 gbp sell 17,822 $ 28,282 $ 28,258 eur sell 63,494 $ 70,031 $ 70,091 cad sell 3,409 $ 2,347 $ 2,347 eur buy 5,890 $ 6,485 $ 6,501 gbp buy 1,282 $ 2,035 $ 2,032 the following table provides information about our foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding on april 30, 2002 (in thousands): foreign currency contract value fair value currency buy/sell amount usd in usd aud sell 8,296 $ 4,472 $ 4,484 chf sell 3,155 $ 1,945 $ 1,945 gbp sell 13,270 $ 19,309 $ 19,347 eur sell 72,311 $ 64,733 $ 64,827 41 table of contentsrisk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. please see page 3 of this annual report on form 10-k for additional discussion of these forward-looking statements. if any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions, including the current economic downturn. we are subject to the effects of general global economic and market conditions challenging economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed, and are currently contributing, to slowdowns in the computer, storage, and networking industries at large, as well as the information technology ( it ) market, resulting in: reduced demand for our products as a result of continued constraints on it related spending by our customers; increased price competition for our products from competitors; deferment of purchases and orders by customers due to budgetary constraints or changes in current or planned utilization of our systems; 11 table of contents risk of excess and obsolete inventories; excess facilities costs; higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenue; increased risk of losses or impairment charges related to our investment portfolio; negative impacts from increased financial pressures on customers, distributors and resellers; negative impacts from increased financial pressures on key suppliers or contract manufacturers; and potential discontinuance of product lines or businesses and related asset impairments. the turmoil in the global credit markets, the recent instability in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world and other disruptions may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions. the economic challenges we initially experienced in the united states have spread throughout the world. if global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the united states or other key markets, remain uncertain, persist, or deteriorate further, we may experience material adverse impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition. our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which could adversely impact our common stock price. we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. our operating results have in the past, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly fluctuations as a result of numerous factors, some of which may contribute to more pronounced fluctuations in an uncertain global economic environment. these factors include, but are not limited to, the following: fluctuations in demand for our products and services, in part due to changes in general economic conditions and specific economic conditions in the computer, storage, and networking industries; a shift in federal government spending patterns; changes in sales and implementation cycles for our products and reduced visibility into our customers spending plans and associated revenue; the level of price and product competition in our target product markets; the impact of the current adverse economic and credit environment on our customers, channel partners, and suppliers, including their ability to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures; the overall movement toward industry consolidations among both our competitors and our customers; our reliance on a limited number of suppliers due to industry consolidation, which could subject us to periodic supply-and-demand, price rigidity, and quality issues with our components; the timing of bookings or the cancellation of significant orders; product configuration and mix; the extent to which our customers renew their service and maintenance contracts with us; market acceptance of new products and product enhancements; announcements and introductions of, and transitions to, new products by us or our competitors; deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements introduced by us or our competitors; our ability to develop, introduce, and market new products and enhancements in a timely manner; technological changes in our target product markets; our levels of expenditure on research and development and sales and marketing programs; 12 table of contents our ability to achieve targeted cost reductions; adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations; excess or inadequate facilities; actual events, circumstances, outcomes and amounts differing from judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in determining the values of certain assets (including the amounts of valuation allowances), liabilities, and other items reflected in our consolidated financial statements; disruptions resulting from new systems and processes as we continue to enhance and scale our system infrastructure; future accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting rules, such as the increased use of fair value measures and the potential requirement that u.s. registrants prepare financial statements in accordance with international financial reporting standards (ifrs); seasonality, such as our historical seasonal decline in revenues in the first quarter of our fiscal year and seasonal increase in revenues in the second quarter of our fiscal year, with the latter due in part to the impact of the u.s. federal government september 30 fiscal year end on the timing of its orders, and linearity, such as our historical intraquarter revenue pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter total revenues occur in the last month of the quarter. due to such factors, operating results for a future period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. any of the foregoing factors, or any other factors discussed elsewhere herein, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. it is possible that in one or more quarters our results may fall below our forecasts and the expectations of public market analysts and investors. in such event, the trading price of our common stock would likely decrease. our revenue for a particular period is difficult to forecast, and a shortfall in revenue may harm our business and our operating results. our revenues for a particular period are difficult to forecast, especially in light of the current global economic downturn and related market uncertainty. product sales are also difficult to forecast because the storage and data management market is rapidly evolving, and our sales cycle varies substantially from customer to customer. new or additional product introductions also increase the complexities of forecasting revenues. additionally, we derive a majority of our revenue in any given quarter from orders booked in the same quarter. bookings typically follow intraquarter seasonality patterns weighted toward the back end of the quarter. if we do not achieve bookings in the latter part of a quarter consistent with our quarterly targets, our financial results will be adversely impacted. we use a pipeline system, a common industry practice, to forecast bookings and trends in our business. sales personnel monitor the status of potential business and estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision, the dollar amount of the sale and the products or services to be sold. these estimates are aggregated periodically to generate a bookings pipeline. our pipeline estimates may prove to be unreliable either in a particular quarter or over a longer period of time, in part because the conversion rate of the pipeline into contracts varies from customer to customer, can be difficult to estimate, and requires management judgment. small deviations from our forecasted conversion rate may result in inaccurate plans and budgets and could materially and adversely impact our business or our planned results of operations. in particular, the continued adverse events in the economic environment and financial markets have made it even more difficult for us to forecast our future results and may result in a reduction in our quarterly conversion rate as our customers purchasing decisions are delayed, reduced in amount, or cancelled. uncertainty about current and future global economic conditions has caused consumers, businesses and governments to defer purchases in response to tighter credit, decreased cash availability and declining customer confidence. accordingly, future demand for our products could differ from our current expectations. 13 table of contents we have experienced periods of alternating growth and decline in revenues and operating expenses. if we are not able to successfully manage these fluctuations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly impacted. the ongoing global financial crisis has led to a worldwide economic downturn that has negatively affected our business. if the current economic downturn continues or worsens, demand for our products and services and our revenues may be further reduced. a prolonged downturn can adversely affect our revenues, gross margin and results of operations. during such economic downturns, it is critical to appropriately align our cost structure with prevailing market conditions and to minimize the effect of such downturns on our operations, while also maintaining our capabilities and strategic investments for future growth. our expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to future revenues, and a significant percentage of our expenses are fixed. we have a limited ability to quickly or significantly reduce our fixed costs, and if revenue levels are below our expectations, operating results will be adversely impacted. during uneven periods of growth, we may incur costs before we realize some of the anticipated benefits, which could harm our operating results. we have significant investments in engineering, sales, service support, marketing programs and other functions to support and grow our business. we are likely to recognize the costs associated with these investments earlier than some of the anticipated benefits, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. conversely, if we are unable to effectively manage our resources and capacity, during periods of increasing demand for our products, we could experience a material adverse effect on operations and financial results. if the network storage market fails to grow, or grows slower than we expect, our revenues will be adversely affected. also, even if it spending increases, our revenue may not grow at the same pace. our gross margins have varied over time and may continue to vary, and such variation may make it more difficult to forecast our earnings. our product gross margins have been and may continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including: demand for storage and data management products; pricing actions, rebates, initiatives, discount levels, and price competition; direct versus indirect and oem sales; changes in customer, geographic, or product mix, including mix of configurations within each product group; product and add-on software mix; the mix of services as a percentage of revenue; the mix and average selling prices of products; the mix of disk content; the timing of revenue recognition and revenue deferrals; new product introductions and enhancements; excess inventory purchase commitments as a result of changes in demand forecasts and possible product and software defects as we transition our products; and the cost of components, manufacturing labor, quality, warranty, and freight. changes in software entitlements and maintenance gross margins may result from various factors, such as: the size of the installed base of products under support contracts; the timing of technical support service contract renewals; demand for and the timing of delivery of upgrades; 14 table of contents the timing of our technical support service initiatives; and the level of spending on our customer support infrastructure. changes in service gross margins may result from various factors, such as: the mix of customers; the size and timing of service contract renewals; the volume and use of outside partners to deliver support services on our behalf; and product quality and serviceability issues. due to such factors, gross margins are subject to variations from period to period and are difficult to predict. our cost-reduction initiatives and restructuring plans may not result in anticipated savings or more efficient operations. our recently-announced restructuring may disrupt our operations and adversely affect our operations and financial results. on february 11, 2009, in response to the worsening global economic conditions and uncertainty about future it spending, we announced a restructuring of our worldwide operations in an effort to strategically align our cost structure with expected revenues, as well as to reallocate resources into areas of our business with more growth potential. additionally, in december 2008, we decided to cease development and availability of our snapmirror for open systems ( smos ) product, and as a result recorded restructuring and other charges attributable primarily to severance and employee-related and facility closure costs, as well as the impairment of certain acquired intangible assets. we may not be able to successfully complete and realize the expected benefits of these restructuring plans. our restructuring plans may involve higher costs or a longer timetable, or they may fail to improve our gross margins, results of operations and cash flows as we anticipate. our inability to realize these benefits may result in an ineffective business structure that could negatively impact our results of operations. in addition to costs related to severance and other employee-related costs, our restructuring plans may also subject us to litigation risks and expenses. in addition, our restructuring plans may have other adverse consequences, such as attrition beyond our planned reduction in workforce, the loss of employees with valuable knowledge or expertise, a negative impact on employee morale, or a gain in competitive advantage by our competitors over us. the restructuring efforts could also be disruptive to our day-to-day operations and cause our remaining employees to be less productive, which in turn may affect our revenue and other operating results in the future. in the event that the economy recovers sooner than we expect and results in increased it spending, we may not have sufficient capacity to capitalize on the related increase in demand for our products and services. we may undertake future cost-reduction initiatives and restructuring plans that may adversely impact our operations; and we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of our prior or any future restructurings. changes in market conditions have led, and in the future could lead, to charges related to the discontinuance of certain of our products and asset impairments. in response to changes in economic conditions and market demands, we may be required to strategically realign our resources and consider cost containment measures including restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise discontinuing certain products. any decision to limit investment in, dispose of, or otherwise exit products may result in the recording of charges to earnings, such as inventory and technology-related or other intangible asset write-offs, workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, cancellation penalties or claims from third parties who were resellers or users of discontinued products, which would harm our operating results. our estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions. additionally, we 15 table of contents are required to perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis, and between annual tests in certain circumstances when impairment indicators exist or if certain events or changes in circumstances have occurred. future goodwill impairment tests may result in charges to earnings, which could materially harm our operating results. our oem relationship with ibm may not continue to generate significant revenue. in april 2005, we entered into an oem agreement with ibm, which enables ibm to sell ibm branded solutions based on netappunified solutions, including nearstore and v-series systems, as well as associated software offerings. while this agreement is an element of our strategy to expand our reach into more customers and countries, we do not have an exclusive relationship with ibm, and there is no minimum commitment for any given period of time; therefore, this relationship may not continue to contribute revenue in future years. in addition, we have no control over the products that ibm selects to sell, or its release schedule and timing of those products; nor do we control its pricing. in the event that sales through ibm increase, we may experience distribution channel conflicts between our direct sales force and ibm or among our channel partners. if we fail to minimize channel conflicts, our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. we cannot assure you that this oem relationship will continue to generate significant revenue while the agreement is in effect, or that the relationship will continue to be in effect for any specific period of time. if we are unable to maintain our existing relationships and develop new relationships with major strategic partners, our revenue may be impacted negatively. an element of our strategy to increase revenue is to strategically partner with major third-party software and hardware vendors that integrate our products into their products and also co-market our products with these vendors. we have significant partner relationships with database, business application, backup management and server virtualization companies, including microsoft, oracle, sap, symantec and vmware. a number of these strategic partners are industry leaders that offer us expanded access to segments of the storage market. there is intense competition for attractive strategic partners, and even if we can establish relationships with these or other partners, these partnerships may not generate significant revenue or may not continue to be in effect for any specific period of time. if these relationships fail to materialize as expected, we could suffer delays in product development or other operational difficulties. we intend to continue to establish and maintain business relationships with technology companies to accelerate the development and marketing of our storage solutions. to the extent that we are unsuccessful in developing new relationships or maintaining our existing relationships, our future revenue and operating results could be impacted negatively. in addition, the loss of a strategic partner could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. disruption of or changes in our distribution model could harm our sales. if we fail to manage distribution of our products and services properly, or if our distributors financial condition or operations weaken, our revenue and gross margins could be adversely affected. we market and sell our storage solutions directly through our worldwide sales force and indirectly through channel partners such as value-added resellers, systems integrators, distributors, oems and strategic business partners, and we derive a significant portion of our revenue from these channel partners. during fiscal 2009, revenues generated from sales through our channel partners accounted for 69.0% of our revenues. in order for us to maintain or increase our revenues, we must effectively manage our relationships with channel partners. several factors could result in disruption of or changes in our distribution model, which could materially harm our revenues and gross margins, including the following: we compete with some of our channel partners through our direct sales force, which may lead these partners to use other suppliers who do not directly sell their own products; our channel partners may demand that we absorb a greater share of the risks that their customers may ask them to bear; 16 table of contents our channel partners may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes and challenges in business conditions; and revenue from indirect sales could suffer if our channel partners financial condition or operations weaken. in addition, we depend on our channel partners to comply with applicable regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions in which they operate. their failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. the u.s. government has contributed to our revenue growth and has become an important customer for us. future revenue from the u.s. government is subject to shifts in government spending patterns. a decrease in government demand for our products could materially affect our revenues. in addition, our business could be adversely affected as a result of future examinations by the u.s. government. the u.s. government has become an important customer for the storage market and for us; however, government demand is unpredictable, and there can be no assurance that we will maintain or grow our revenue from the u.s. government. government agencies are subject to budgetary processes and expenditure constraints that could lead to delays or decreased capital expenditures in it spending. if the government or individual agencies within the government reduce or shift their capital spending patterns, our revenues and operating results may be harmed. in addition, selling our products to the u.s. government also subjects us to certain regulatory requirements. the failure to comply with these requirements could subject us to fines and other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. for example, in april 2009, we entered into a settlement agreement with the united states of america, acting through the united states department of justice ( doj ) and on behalf of the general services administration (the gsa ), under which we agreed to pay the united states $128.0 million, plus interest of $0.7 million, related to a dispute regarding our discount practices and compliance with the price reduction clause provisions of its gsa contracts between august 1997 and february 2005. we are currently in discussions with the u.s. government to demonstrate that we have implemented processes and procedures to ensure that we comply with federal contracting rules. if we are unable to demonstrate to the u.s. government that we have implemented such improved policies and procedures or if we are subject to an adverse outcome in any future examinations of our federal contracting practices, we could be suspended or debarred from contracting with the u.s. government generally, or with any specific agency, which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and operating results. a portion of our revenue is generated by large, recurring purchases from various customers, resellers and distributors. a loss, cancellation or delay in purchases by these parties has and could continue to negatively affect our revenue. during fiscal 2009, two u.s. distributors accounted for approximately 10.5% and 10.6% of our revenues, respectively. the loss of continued orders from any of our more significant customers, strategic partners, distributors or resellers could cause our revenue and profitability to suffer. our ability to attract new customers will depend on a variety of factors, including the cost-effectiveness, reliability, scalability, breadth and depth of our products. we generally do not enter into binding purchase commitments with our customers for an extended period of time, and thus we may not be able to continue to receive large, recurring orders from these customers, resellers or distributors. for example, our reseller agreements generally do not require minimum purchases and our customers, resellers and distributors can stop purchasing and marketing our products at any time. recent turmoil in the credit markets may further negatively impact our operations by affecting the solvency of our customers, resellers and distributors, or the ability of our customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. if the global economy and credit markets continue to deteriorate and our future sales decline, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely impacted. because our expenses are based on our revenue forecasts, a substantial reduction or delay in sales of our products to, or unexpected returns from, customers and resellers, or the loss of any significant customer or reseller, 17 table of contents could harm our business. although our largest customers may vary from period to period, we anticipate that our operating results for any given period will continue to depend on large orders from significant customers. in addition, a change in the mix of our customers could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins. we are exposed to the credit risk of some of our customers, resellers, and distributors, as well as credit exposures in weakened markets, which could result in material losses. most of our sales to customers are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of 30 days in the united states and, because of local customs or conditions, longer in some markets outside the united states. we monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, and seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe the customers can pay. beyond our open credit arrangements, we also have recourse or nonrecourse customer financing leasing arrangements with third party leasing companies through preexisting relationships with customers. under the terms of recourse leases, which are treated as off-balance sheet arrangements, we remain liable for the aggregate unpaid remaining lease payments to the third party leasing company in the event that any customers default. we expect demand for customer financing to continue. during periods of economic downturn in the storage industry and the global economy, our exposure to credit risks from our customers increases. in addition, our exposure to credit risks of our customers may increase if our customers and their customers or their lease financing sources are adversely affected by the current global economic downturn, or if there is a continuation or worsening of the downturn. although we have programs in place to monitor and mitigate the associated risks, such programs may not be effective in reducing our credit risks. in the past, there have been bankruptcies by our customers both who have open credit and who have lease financing arrangements with us, causing us to incur bad debt charges, and, in the case of financing arrangements, a loss of revenues. there can be no assurance that additional losses will not occur in future periods. any future losses could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. additionally, to the extent that the recent turmoil in the credit markets makes it more difficult for customers to obtain open credit or lease financing, those customers ability to purchase our product could be adversely impacted, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. the market price for our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and will likely continue to do so in the future. the market price for our common stock has experienced substantial volatility in the past, and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. these factors include but are not limited to: fluctuations in our operating results; variations between our operating results and either the guidance we have furnished to the public or the published expectations of securities analysts; economic developments in the storage and data management market as a whole; fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us; changes in analysts recommendations or projections; inquiries by the sec, nasdaq, law enforcement, or other regulatory bodies; international conflicts and acts of terrorism; announcements of new products, applications, or product enhancements by us or our competitors; changes in our relationships with our suppliers, customers, channel and strategic partners; and general market conditions, including the recent financial and credit crisis and global economic downturn. in addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that has particularly affected the market prices of the equity securities of many technology companies. certain macroeconomic factors such as changes in interest rates, the market climate for the technology sector, and levels of corporate spending on it, as well as variations in our expected operating performance, could continue to have an impact on the trading price of our stock. as a result, the 18 table of contents market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future, and any broad market decline may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. if we are unable to develop and introduce new products and respond to technological change, if our new products do not achieve market acceptance, if we fail to manage the transition between our new and old products, or if we cannot provide the expected level of service and support for our new products, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. our future growth depends upon the successful development and introduction of new hardware and software products. due to the complexity of storage subsystems and storage security appliances and the difficulty in gauging the engineering effort required to produce new products, such products are subject to significant technical risks. in addition, our new products must respond to technological changes and evolving industry standards. if we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, or if such products do not achieve market acceptance, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. new or additional product introductions increase the complexities of forecasting revenues, and if not managed effectively, may adversely affect our sales of existing products. as new or enhanced products are introduced, we must successfully manage the transition from older products in order to minimize disruption in customers ordering patterns, avoid excessive levels of older product inventories, and ensure that enough supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customers demands. as we enter new or emerging markets, we will likely increase demands on our service and support operations and may be exposed to additional competition. we may not be able to provide products, service and support to effectively compete for these market opportunities. an increase in competition and industry consolidation could materially and adversely affect our operating results. the storage markets are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapidly changing technology. in the storage market, our primary and near-line storage system products and our associated software portfolio compete primarily with storage system products and data management software from emc, hitachi data systems, hp, ibm, and sun microsystems. in addition, dell, inc. is a competitor in the storage marketplace through its business arrangement with emc, which allows dell to resell emc storage hardware and software products, as well as through dell acquisition of equallogic, through which dell offers low-priced storage solutions. in the secondary storage market, which includes the disk-to-disk backup, compliance and business continuity segments, our solutions compete primarily against products from emc and sun microsystems. our vtl products also compete with traditional tape backup solutions in the broader data backup/recovery space. additionally, a number of small, newer companies have recently entered the storage systems and data management software markets, the near-line and vtl storage markets and the high-performance clustered storage markets, some of which may become significant competitors in the future. there has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years. for example, in april 2009, oracle corporation, one of our strategic partners, announced its plan to acquire sun microsystems. we expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. we believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. in addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties. accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. we may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. competitive pressures we face could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. 19 table of contents our future financial performance depends on growth in the storage and data management markets. if these markets do not perform as we expect and upon which we calculate and forecast our revenues, our operating results will be materially and adversely impacted. all of our products address the storage and data management markets. accordingly, our future financial performance will depend in large part on continued growth in the storage and data management markets and on our ability to adapt to emerging standards in these markets. the markets for storage and data management have been adversely impacted by the current global economic downturn and may not grow as anticipated or may continue to decline. additionally, emerging standards in these markets may adversely affect the unix , windows and the world wide web server markets upon which we depend. for example, we provide our open access data retention solutions to customers within the financial services, healthcare, pharmaceutical and government market segments, industries that are subject to various evolving governmental regulations with respect to data access, reliability and permanence (such as rule 17(a)(4) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended) in the united states and in the other countries in which we operate. if our products do not meet and continue to comply with these evolving governmental regulations in this regard, customers in these market and geographical segments will not purchase our products, and we will not be able to expand our product offerings in these market and geographical segments at the rates which we have forecasted. supply chain issues, including financial problems of contract manufacturers or component suppliers, or a shortage of adequate component supply or manufacturing capacity that increase our costs or cause a delay in our ability to fulfill orders, could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results, and our failure to estimate customer demand properly may result in excess or obsolete component supply, which could adversely affect our gross margins. the fact that we do not own or operate our manufacturing facilities and supply chain exposes us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, production costs and product supply, which could have a material adverse impact on the supply of our products and on our business and operating results. financial problems of either contract manufacturers or component suppliers could limit supply, increase costs, or result in accelerated payment terms. the loss of any contract manufacturer or key supplier could negatively impact our ability to manufacture and sell our products. qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing volume production is expensive and time-consuming. if we are required to change contract manufacturers, we may lose revenue and damage our customer relationships. disruption or termination of manufacturing capacity or component supply could delay shipments of our products and could materially and adversely affect our operating results. such delays could also damage relationships with current and prospective customers and suppliers, and our competitive position and reputation could be harmed. a return to growth in the economy is likely to put greater pressures on us, our contract manufacturers and our suppliers to accurately project demand and to establish optimal purchase commitment levels. additionally, the reservation of manufacturing capacity at our contract manufacturers by other companies, inside or outside of our industry, or the inability by us to appropriately cancel, reschedule, or adjust our manufacturing or components requirements based upon business needs could result in either limitation of supply or increased costs from these suppliers. if we inaccurately forecast demand for our products or if there is lack of demand for our products, we may have excess or inadequate inventory or incur cancellation charges or penalties, which would increase our costs and have an adverse impact on our gross margins. we rely on a limited number of suppliers for components such as disk drives, computer boards and microprocessors utilized in the assembly of our products. in recent years, rapid industry consolidation has led to fewer component suppliers, which has and could subject us to future periodic supply constraints and price rigidity. furthermore, as a result of binding price or purchase commitments with suppliers, we may be obligated to purchase components at prices that are higher than those available in the current market, or in amounts greater than 20 table of contents our needs. in the event that we become committed to purchase components at prices in excess of the current market price when the components are actually used, or are committed to buy components in amounts greater than our needs, our gross margins could decrease. component quality is a risk and is particularly significant with respect to our suppliers of disk drives. in order to meet product performance requirements, we must obtain disk drives of extremely high quality and capacity. as suppliers upgrade their components, they regularly end of life older components. as we become aware of an end of life situation, we attempt to make purchases or purchase commitments to cover all future requirements or find a suitable substitute component. we may not be able to obtain a sufficient supply of components on a timely and cost effective basis. our failure to do so may lead to an adverse impact on our business. on the other hand, if we fail to anticipate customer demand properly or if there is reduced demand or no demand for our products, an oversupply of end of life components could result in excess or obsolete components that could adversely affect our gross margins. we intend to regularly introduce new products and product enhancements, which will require us to rapidly achieve volume production by coordinating with our contract manufacturers and suppliers. we may need to increase our material purchases, contract manufacturing capacity and quality functions to meet anticipated demand. the inability of our contract manufacturers or our component suppliers to provide us with adequate supplies of high-quality products and materials suitable for our needs could cause a delay in our ability to fulfill orders. our acquisitions may not provide the anticipated benefits and may disrupt our existing business. as part of our strategy, we are continuously evaluating opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that would complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets, or enhance our technical capabilities. on may 20, 2009, we announced that we have entered into a definitive agreement to acquire data domain, inc. ( data domain ). we subsequently amended the terms of the definitive agreement on june 3, 2009. the success of this and any future acquisition is impacted by a number of factors, and may be subject to the following risks: the inability to successfully integrate the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired companies; the diversion of management attention from normal daily operations of the business; the loss of key employees; and substantial transaction costs and accounting charges. exposure to litigation related to acquisitions. for example, see the lawsuit related to data domain described in part i, item 3 legal proceedings below. this and any future acquisitions may also result in risks to our existing business, including: dilution of our current stockholders percentage ownership to the extent we issue new equity; assumption of additional liabilities; incurrence of additional debt or a decline in available cash; adverse effects to our financial statements, such as the need to make large and immediate write-offs or the incurrence of restructuring and other related expenses; liability for intellectual property infringement and other litigation claims, which we may or may not be aware of at the time of acquisition; and creation of goodwill or other intangible assets that could result in significant future amortization expense or impairment charges. in addition, failure to complete the data domain acquisition as planned could negatively impact our stock price. the failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of an acquisition may also result in impairment charges for goodwill or acquired intangibles. for example, in fiscal 2009 we announced our decision to cease the development 21 table of contents and availability of our smos product, which was originally acquired through our acquisition of topio, inc. ( topio ) in fiscal 2007, resulting in the impairment of acquired intangibles related to such acquisition. additional or realized risks of this nature could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the occurrence of any of the above risks could seriously harm our business. we are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates; impairment of our investments could harm our financial results. at april 24, 2009, we had $2.6 billion in cash, cash equivalents, available-for-sale securities and restricted cash and investments. we invest our cash in a variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of investments in u.s. treasury securities, u.s. government agency bonds, corporate bonds, corporate securities, auction rate securities, certificates of deposit, and money market funds, including the primary fund. these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which have been exacerbated by unusual events such as the financial and credit crisis, and bankruptcy filings in the united states which have affected various sectors of the financial markets and led to global credit and liquidity issues. these securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax. investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate debt securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates. currently, we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. we may suffer losses if forced to sell securities that have experienced a decline in market value because of changes in interest rates. currently, we do not use financial derivatives to hedge our interest rate exposure. the fair value of our investments may change significantly due to events and conditions in the credit and capital markets. these securities/issuers could be subject to review for possible downgrade. any downgrade in these credit ratings may result in an additional decline in the estimated fair value of our investments. changes in the various assumptions used to value these securities and any increase in the markets perceived risk associated with such investments may also result in a decline in estimated fair value. if such investments suffer market price declines, as we experienced with some of our investments during fiscal 2009, we may recognize in earnings the decline in the fair value of our investments below their cost basis when the decline is judged to be other-than-temporary. as a result of the bankruptcy filing of lehman brothers, which occurred during fiscal 2009, we recorded an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $11.8 million on our corporate bonds related to investments in lehman brothers securities and approximately $9.3 million on our investments in the primary fund that held lehman brothers investments. as of april 24, 2009, we have an investment in the primary fund, an aaa-rated money market fund at the time of purchase, with a par value of $60.9 million and an estimated fair value of $51.6 million, which suspended redemptions in september 2008 and is in the process of liquidating its portfolio of investments. we received total distributions of $546.3 million during fiscal 2009 from the primary fund. on december 3, 2008, it announced a plan for liquidation and distribution of assets that includes the establishment of a special reserve to be set aside out of its assets for pending or threatened claims, as well as anticipated costs and expenses, including related legal and accounting fees. on february 26, 2009, the primary fund announced a plan to set aside $3.5 billion of the fund remaining assets as the special reserve which may be increased or decreased as further information becomes available. the primary fund has received an sec order providing that the sec will supervise the distribution of assets from the primary fund. our pro rata share of the $3.5 billion special reserve is approximately $41.5 million. the primary fund plans to continue to make periodic distributions, up to the amount of the special reserve, on a pro-rata basis. we could realize additional losses in our holdings of the primary fund and may not receive all or a portion of our remaining balance in the primary fund as a result of market conditions and ongoing litigation against the fund. 22 table of contents if the conditions in the credit and capital markets continue to worsen, our investment portfolio may be impacted and we could determine that more of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring further impairments, which could adversely impact our financial position and operating results. funds associated with certain of our auction rate securities may not be accessible for more than 12 months and our auction rate securities may experience further other-than-temporary declines in value, which would adversely affect our earnings. auction rate securities ( ars ) held by us are securities with long-term nominal maturities, which, in accordance with investment policy guidelines, had credit ratings of aaa and aaa at time of purchase. interest rates for ars are reset through a dutch auction each month, which prior to february 2008 had provided a liquid market for these securities. substantially all of our ars are backed by pools of student loans guaranteed by the u.s. department of education, and we believe the credit quality of these securities is high based on this guarantee. however liquidity issues in the global credit markets resulted in the failure of auctions for certain of our ars investments, with a par value of $73.3 million at april 24, 2009. for each failed auction, the interest rate resets to a maximum rate defined for each security, and the ars continue to pay interest in accordance with their terms, although the principal associated with the ars will not be accessible until there is a successful auction or such time as other markets for ars investments develop. as of april 24, 2009, we determined there was a total decline in the fair value of our ars investments of approximately $8.8 million, of which we recorded temporary impairment charges of $7.0 million, offset by unrealized gains of $0.3 million, and $2.1 million was recognized as an other-than-temporary impairment charge. in addition, we have classified all of our auction rate securities as long-term assets in our consolidated balance sheets of april 24, 2009 as our ability to liquidate such securities in the next 12 months is uncertain. although we currently have the ability and intent to hold these ars investments until recovery in market value or until maturity, if the current market conditions deteriorate further, or the anticipated recovery in market liquidity does not occur, we may be required to record additional impairment charges in future quarters. our leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. as a result of our sale of $1.265 billion of 1.75% convertible senior notes in june 2008 (the notes ), we have a greater amount of long-term debt than we have maintained in the past. we also have a credit facility and various synthetic lease arrangements. in addition, subject to the restrictions in our existing and any future financings agreements, we may incur additional debt. our maintenance of higher levels of indebtedness could have adverse consequences including: adversely affecting our ability to satisfy our obligations; increasing the portion of our cash flows from operations may have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and making us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general. our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. we will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions and governmental regulations. furthermore, our operations may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations to enable us to meet our expenses and service our debt. as a result, we may be required to repatriate funds from our foreign subsidiaries, which could result in a significant tax liability to us. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or if we are unable to repatriate sufficient or any funds from our foreign subsidiaries, in order to meet our expenses and debt service obligations, we may need to utilize our existing line of credit to obtain the necessary funds, or we may be required to raise additional funds. if we determine it is necessary to seek additional funding for any reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if funding is 23 table of contents available, obtain it on acceptable terms. if we fail to make a payment on our debt, we could be in default on such debt, and this default could cause us to be in default on our other outstanding indebtedness. we are subject to restrictive and financial covenants in our credit facility and synthetic lease arrangements. the restrictive covenants may restrict our ability to operate our business. our access to undrawn amounts under our credit facility and the ongoing extension of credit under our synthetic lease arrangements are subject to continued compliance with financial covenants, which could be more challenging in a difficult operating environment. if we do not comply with these restrictive and financial covenants or otherwise default under the facility or arrangements, we may be required to repay any outstanding amounts under this credit facility or repurchase the properties and facility which are subject to the synthetic lease arrangements. if we lose access to these credit facility and synthetic lease arrangements, we may not be able to obtain alternative financing on acceptable terms, which could limit our operating flexibility. the agreements governing our credit facility and synthetic lease arrangements contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to operate our business, including restrictions on our ability to: incur indebtedness; incur indebtedness at the subsidiary level; grant liens; sell all or substantially all our assets: enter into certain mergers; change our business; enter into swap agreements; enter into transactions with our affiliates; and enter into certain restrictive agreements. as a result of these restrictive covenants, our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be significantly restricted. we may also be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us, such as strategic acquisitions or joint ventures. we are also required to comply with financial covenants under our credit facility and synthetic lease arrangements, and our ability to comply with these financial covenants is dependent on our future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including prevailing economic conditions. our failure to comply with the restrictive and financial covenants could result in a default under our credit facility and our synthetic lease arrangements, which would give the counterparties thereto the ability to exercise certain rights, including the right to accelerate the amounts owed thereunder and to terminate the arrangement, and could also result in a cross default with respect to our other indebtedness. in addition, our failure to comply with these covenants and the acceleration of amounts owed under our credit facility and synthetic lease arrangements could result in a default under the notes, which could permit the holders to accelerate the notes. if all of our debt is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available to repay such debt. future issuances of common stock and hedging activities by holders of the notes may depress the trading price of our common stock and the notes. any new issuance of equity securities, including the issuance of shares upon conversion of the notes, could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders, including holders who receive shares upon conversion of their notes, and could substantially decrease the trading price of our common stock and the notes. we may issue equity securities in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy (including in connection with acquisitions, strategic collaborations or other transactions), to increase our capital, to adjust our 24 table of contents ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding warrants or options, or for other reasons. in addition, the price of our common stock could also be affected by possible sales of our common stock by investors who view the notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that we expect to develop involving our common stock by holders of the notes. the hedging or arbitrage could, in turn, affect the trading price of the notes, or any common stock that holders receive upon conversion of the notes. conversion of our notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. the conversion of some or all of our outstanding notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders to the extent we deliver common stock upon conversion of the notes. upon conversion of a note, we will satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering cash for the principal amount of the note and shares of common stock, if any, to the extent the conversion value exceeds the principal amount. there would be no adjustment to the numerator in the net income per common share computation for the cash settled portion of the notes as that portion of the debt instrument will always be settled in cash. the number of shares delivered upon conversion, if any, will be included in the denominator for the computation of diluted net income per common share. any sales in the public market of any common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. in addition, the existence of the notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the notes could be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of the notes into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. the note hedges and warrant transactions that we entered into in connection with the sale of the notes may affect the trading price of our common stock. in connection with the issuance of the notes, we entered into privately negotiated convertible note hedge transactions with certain option counterparties (the counterparties ), which are expected to reduce the potential dilution to our common stock upon any conversion of the notes. at the same time, we also entered into warrant transactions with the counterparties pursuant to which we may issue shares of our common stock above a certain strike price. in connection with these hedging transactions, the counterparties may have entered into various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock or purchased shares of our common stock in secondary market transactions at or following the pricing of the notes. such activities may have had the effect of increasing the price of our common stock. the counterparties are likely to modify their hedge positions from time to time prior to conversion or maturity of the notes by purchasing and selling shares of our common stock or entering into other derivative transactions. additionally, these transactions may expose us to counterparty credit risk for nonperformance. we manage our exposure to counterparty credit risk through specific minimum credit standards and the diversification of counterparties. the effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock or the notes will depend, in part, on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock. in addition, if our stock price exceeds the strike price for the warrants, there could be additional dilution to our shareholders, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. lehman brothers otc derivatives, inc. ( lehman otc ) is the counterparty to 20% of our note hedges. the bankruptcy filing by lehman otc on october 3, 2008 constituted an event of default under the hedge transaction that could, at our option, lead to termination under the hedge transaction to the extent we provide notice to lehman otc. we have not terminated the note hedge transaction with lehman otc, and will continue to carefully monitor the developments impacting lehman otc. this event of default is not expected to have an impact on our financial position or results of operations. however, we could incur significant costs if we elect to replace this hedge transaction originally held with lehman otc. if we do not elect to replace this hedge transaction, then we would be subject to potential dilution upon conversion of the notes if on the date of conversion the per-share market price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price of $31.85. the terms of the notes, the rights of the holders of the notes and other counterparties to note hedges and warrants were not affected by the bankruptcy filings of lehman otc. 25 table of contents our synthetic leases are off-balance sheet arrangements that could negatively affect our financial condition and results. we have invested substantial resources in new facilities and physical infrastructure, which will increase our fixed costs. our operating results could be harmed if our business does not grow proportionately to our increase in fixed costs. we have various synthetic lease arrangements with bnp paribas leasing corporation as lessor ( bbpplc ) for our headquarters office buildings and land in sunnyvale, california. on april 1, 2009, we terminated two of the synthetic lease arrangements in an effort to manage our capital structure in light of the current economic environment. the lease payments commitments associated with the remaining arrangements as of the termination date totaled $141.1 million through fiscal 2013. these synthetic leases qualify for operating lease accounting treatment under sfas no. 13, accounting for leases (as amended), and are not considered variable interest entities under fin no. 46r consolidation of variable interest entities (revised). therefore, we do not include the properties or the associated debt on our condensed consolidated balance sheet. however, if circumstances were to change regarding our or bnpplc ownership of the properties, or in bnpplc overall portfolio, we could be required to consolidate the entity, the leased facilities and the associated debt. our future minimum lease payments under these synthetic leases limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business by restricting the funds available for use in addressing such changes. if we are unable to grow our business and revenues proportionately to our increase in fixed costs, our operating results will be harmed. if we elect not to purchase the properties at the end of the lease term, we have guaranteed a minimum residual value to bnpplc. therefore, if the fair value of the properties declines below that guaranteed minimum residual value, our residual value guarantee would require us to pay the difference to bnpplc, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial condition and operating results. reductions in headcount growth have resulted in excess capacity and vacant facilities. in addition, we may experience changes in our operations in the future that could result in additional excess capacity and vacant facilities. we will continue to be responsible for all carrying costs of these facilities operating leases until such time as we can sublease these facilities or terminate the applicable leases based on the contractual terms of the operating lease agreements, and these costs may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. risks inherent in our international operations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. we conduct a significant portion of our business outside the united states. a substantial portion of our revenues is derived from sales outside of the u.s. during fiscal 2009 and 2008, our international revenues accounted for 48.5% and 47.1% of our total revenues, respectively. in addition, we have several research and development centers overseas, and a substantial portion of our products are manufactured outside of the u.s. accordingly, our business and our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected by a variety of factors affecting our international operations, some of which are beyond our control, including regulatory, political, or economic conditions in a specific country or region, trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements, government spending patterns, and acts of terrorism and international conflicts. in addition, we may not be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. our international sales are denominated in u.s. dollars and in foreign currencies. an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products more expensive and therefore potentially less competitive in foreign markets. conversely, lowering our price in local currency may result in lower u.s.-based revenue. a decrease in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies could increase the cost of local operating expenses. additionally, we have exposures to emerging market currencies, which can have extreme currency volatility. we utilize forward and option contracts to hedge our foreign currency exposure associated with certain assets and liabilities as well as anticipated foreign currency cash flows. all balance sheet hedges are marked to market through earnings every quarter. the time-value component of our cash flow hedges is recorded in earnings while all other gains and losses are marked to market through other comprehensive income until forecasted transactions occur, at which time such realized gains and losses are recognized in earnings. 26 table of contents these hedges attempt to reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange movements. factors that could have an impact on the effectiveness of our hedging program include the accuracy of forecasts and the volatility of foreign currency markets as well as widening interest rate differentials and the volatility of the foreign exchange market. there can be no assurance that such hedging strategies will be successful and that currency exchange rate fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results. additional risks inherent in our international business activities generally include, among others, longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in managing international operations. such factors could materially and adversely affect our future international sales and consequently our operating results. our international operations are subject to other risks, including general import/export restrictions and the potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than u.s. law. moreover, in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act. although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could subject us to fines and other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we have credit exposure to our hedging counterparties. in order to minimize volatility in earnings associated with fluctuations in the value of foreign currency relative to the u.s. dollar, we utilize forward and option contracts to hedge our exposure to foreign currencies. as a result of entering into these hedging contracts with major financial institutions, we may be subject to counterparty nonperformance risk. should there be a counterparty default, we could be exposed to the net losses on the original hedge contracts or be unable to recover anticipated net gains from the transactions. a significant portion of our cash and cash equivalents balances is held overseas. if we are not able to generate sufficient cash domestically in order to fund our u.s. operations and strategic opportunities and service our debt, we may incur a significant tax liability in order to repatriate the overseas cash balances, or we may need to raise additional capital in the future. a portion of our earnings which is generated from our international operations is held and invested by certain of our foreign subsidiaries. these amounts are not freely available for dividend repatriation to the united states without triggering significant adverse tax consequences, which could adversely affect our financial results. as a result, unless the cash generated by our domestic operations is sufficient to fund our domestic operations, our broader corporate initiatives such as stock repurchases, acquisitions, and other strategic opportunities, and to service our outstanding indebtedness, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings, or we may need to expand our existing credit facility to the extent we choose not to repatriate our overseas cash. such additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all, and any new equity financings or offerings would dilute our current stockholders ownership. furthermore, lenders, particularly in light of the current challenges in the credit markets, may not agree to extend us new, additional or continuing credit. if adequate funds are not available, or are not available on acceptable terms, we may be forced to repatriate our foreign cash and incur a significant tax expense or we may not be able to take advantage of strategic opportunities, develop new products, respond to competitive pressures or repay our outstanding indebtedness. in any such case, our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 27 table of contents changes in our effective tax rate or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we are taxed at lower rates as compared to the u.s. statutory tax rate; material differences between forecasted and actual tax rates as a result of a shift in the mix of pretax profits and losses by tax jurisdiction, our ability to use tax credits, or effective tax rates by tax jurisdiction that differ from our estimates; changing tax laws or related interpretations, accounting standards, regulations, and interpretations in multiple tax jurisdictions in which we operate, as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings; an increase in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including certain stock-based compensation expense, write-offs of acquired in-process research and development, and impairment of goodwill; the tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods; changes related to our ability to ultimately realize future benefits attributed to our deferred tax assets, including those related to other-than-temporary impairments; tax assessments resulting from income tax audits or any related tax interest or penalties could significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in which the settlements take place; and a change in our decision to indefinitely reinvest foreign earnings. we receive significant tax benefits from sales to our non-u.s. customers. these benefits are contingent upon existing tax regulations in the united states and in the countries in which our international operations are located. future changes in domestic or international tax regulations could adversely affect our ability to continue to realize these tax benefits. we have not provided for united states federal and state income taxes or foreign withholding taxes that may result on future remittances of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. the obama administration recently announced several proposals to reform united states tax rules, including proposals that may result in a reduction or elimination of the deferral of united states income tax on our future unrepatriated earnings. absent a restructuring of some legal entities and their functionality, some of the future unrepatriated earnings would be taxed at the united states federal income tax rate. additionally, the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit on may 27, 2009 held in xilinx inc. v. commissioner that stock-based compensation must be included in the research and development cost base of companies that have entered into a cost sharing arrangement and must, therefore, be allocated among the participants based on anticipated benefits. the court reversal of the prior u.s. tax court decision will impact our estimate of tax benefits that were required to be recognized under financial interpretation no. 48, accounting for uncertainty in income taxes-an interpretation of fasb statement no. 109 ( fin 48 ). we are currently evaluating the impact of the xilinx case on our provision for income taxes for the first quarter of fiscal 2010, but expect any final adjustment will be limited to a reduction of our unrecognized tax attributes. our international operations currently benefit from a tax ruling concluded in the netherlands, which expires in 2010. if we are unable to negotiate a similar tax ruling upon expiration of the current ruling, our effective tax rate could increase and our operating results could be adversely affected. our effective tax rate could also be adversely affected by different and evolving interpretations of existing law or regulations, which in turn would negatively impact our operating and financial results as a whole. our effective tax rate could also be adversely affected if there is a change in international operations and how the operations are managed and structured. the price of our common stock could decline to the extent that our financial results are materially affected by an adverse change in our effective tax rate. 28 table of contents we are currently undergoing federal income tax audits in the united states and several foreign tax jurisdictions. the rights to some of our intellectual property ( ip ) are owned by certain of our foreign subsidiaries, and payments are made between u.s. and foreign tax jurisdictions relating to the use of this ip in a qualified cost sharing arrangement. in recent years, several other u.s. companies have had their foreign ip arrangements challenged as part of irs examinations, which has resulted in material proposed assessments and/or pending litigation with respect to those companies. during fiscal 2009, we received notices of proposed adjustments from the irs in connection with federal income tax audits conducted with respect to our fiscal 2003 and 2004 tax years. if the ultimate determination of income taxes assessed under the current irs audit or under audits being conducted in any of the other tax jurisdictions in which we operate results in an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may face increased risks and uncertainties related to our current or future investments in nonmarketable securities of private companies, and these investments may not achieve our objectives. on occasion, we make strategic investments in nonmarketable securities of development stage entities. as of april 24, 2009, the carrying value of our investments in nonmarketable securities totaled $4.0 million. investments in nonmarketable securities are inherently risky, and some of these companies are likely to fail. their success (or lack thereof) is dependent on product development, market acceptance, operational efficiency and other key business success factors. in addition, depending on these companies future prospects, they may not be able to raise additional funds when needed, or they may receive lower valuations, with less favorable investment terms than in previous financings, and our investments in them would likely become impaired. we could lose our entire investment in these companies. for example, during fiscal 2009 we determined that our investments in nonmarketable securities of two companies had been impaired, and we recorded impairment charges of $6.3 million. if we are unable to establish fair value for any undelivered element of a sales arrangement, all or a portion of the revenue relating to the arrangement could be deferred to future periods. in the course of our sales efforts, we often enter into multiple element arrangements that include our systems and one or more of the following undelivered software-related elements: software entitlements and maintenance, premium hardware maintenance, and storage review services. if we are required to change the pricing of our software related elements through discounting, or otherwise introduce variability in the pricing of such elements, we may be unable to maintain vendor specific objective evidence of fair value of the undelivered elements of the arrangement, and would therefore be required to delay the recognition of all or a portion of the related arrangement. a delay in the recognition of revenue may cause fluctuations in our financial results and may adversely affect our operating margins. our business could be materially and adversely affected as a result of a natural disaster, terrorist acts or other catastrophic events. we depend on the ability of our personnel, raw materials, equipment and products to move reasonably unimpeded around the world. any political, military, world health or other issue that hinders this movement or restricts the import or export of materials could lead to significant business disruptions. furthermore, any strike, economic failure or other material disruption caused by fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, power shortages, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events could also adversely affect our ability to conduct business. if such disruptions result in cancellations of customer orders or contribute to a general decrease in economic activity or corporate spending on information technology, or directly impact our marketing, manufacturing, financial and logistics functions, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. in addition, our headquarters are located in northern california, an area susceptible to earthquakes. if any significant disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business could be impaired. we depend on attracting and retaining qualified technical and sales personnel. if we are unable to attract and retain such personnel, our operating results could be materially and adversely impacted. our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to identify, attract, motivate and retain qualified technical and sales personnel. because our future success is dependent on our ability to continue to enhance and introduce new products, we are particularly dependent on our ability to identify, attract, motivate and retain qualified engineers with the requisite education, background and industry experience. competition for qualified 29 table of contents engineers, particularly in silicon valley, can be intense. the loss of the services of a significant number of our engineers or salespeople could be disruptive to our development efforts or business relationships and could materially and adversely affect our operating results. undetected software errors, hardware errors, or failures found in new products may result in loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, which could increase our costs and reduce our revenues. product quality problems could lead to reduced revenue, gross margins and operating results. our products may contain undetected software errors, hardware errors or failures when first introduced or as new versions are released. despite testing by us and by current and potential customers, errors may not be found in new products until after commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in loss of or delay in market acceptance, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. if we fail to remedy a product defect, we may experience a failure of a product line, temporary or permanent withdrawal from a product or market, damage to our reputation, inventory costs or product reengineering expenses, any of which could have a material impact on our revenue, gross margins and operating results. in addition, we may be subject to losses that may result from or are alleged to result from defects in our products, which could subject us to claims for damages, including consequential damages. based on our historical experience, we believe that the risk of exposure to product liability claims is low. however, should we experience increased exposure to product liability claims, our business could be adversely impacted. we are exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims and protection of intellectual property rights, which could adversely affect our operating results. we are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business, including our ongoing litigation with sun microsystems. litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. an unfavorable resolution of a particular lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may be subject to increased competition that could materially and adversely affect our operating results. our success depends significantly upon our proprietary technology. we rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions, and patents to protect our proprietary rights. we seek to protect our software, documentation and other written materials under trade secret, copyright and patent laws, which afford only limited protection. some of our u.s. trademarks are registered internationally as well. we will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks as appropriate. we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and with our resellers, strategic partners and customers. we currently have multiple u.s. and international patent applications pending and multiple u.s. patents issued. the pending applications may not be approved, and our existing and future patents may be challenged. if such challenges are brought, the patents may be invalidated. we may not be able to develop proprietary products or technologies that are patentable, or where any issued patent will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties. further, the patents of others may materially and adversely affect our ability to do business. in addition, a failure to obtain and defend our trademark registrations may impede our marketing and branding efforts and competitive position. litigation may be necessary to protect our proprietary technology. any such litigation may be time consuming and costly. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the united states. our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate or our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products, or design around patents issued to us or other intellectual property rights of ours. we are subject to intellectual property infringement claims. we may, from time to time, receive claims that we are infringing third parties intellectual property rights. third parties may in the future claim infringement by us with respect to current or future products, patents, trademarks or other proprietary rights. we expect that companies in the network storage market will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and 30 table of contents competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. any such claims could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays, require us to redesign our products or enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. we are continually seeking ways to make our cost structure more efficient, including moving activities from higher- to lower-cost owned locations, as well as outsourcing certain business process functions. problems with the execution of these changes could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. we continuously seek to make our cost structure more efficient. we are focused on increasing workforce flexibility and scalability, and improving overall competitiveness by leveraging our global capabilities, as well as external talent and skills worldwide. for example, certain engineering activities and projects that were formally performed in the u.s. have been moved to lower cost international locations. the challenges involved with these initiatives include executing business functions in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures. in addition, we will rely on partners or third party service providers for the provision of certain business process functions in it and accounting, and as a result, we may incur increased business continuity risks. for example, we may no longer be able to exercise control over some aspects of the future development, support or maintenance of outsourced operations and processes, including the internal controls associated with those outsourced business operations and processes, which could adversely affect our business. if we are unable to effectively utilize or integrate and interoperate with external resources or if our partners or third party service providers experience business difficulties or are unable to provide business process services as anticipated, we may need to seek alternative service providers or resume providing these business processes internally, which could be costly and time consuming and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. our business could be materially adversely affected by changes in regulations or standards regarding energy efficiency of our products. we continually seek ways to increase the energy efficiency of our products. recent analyses have estimated the amount of global carbon emissions that are due to information technology products. as a result, governmental and non-governmental organizations have turned their attention to development of regulations and standards to drive technological improvements and reduce such amount of carbon emissions. there is a risk that the rush to development of these standards will not fully address the complexity of the technology developed by the it industry or will favor certain technological approaches. depending on the regulations or standards that are ultimately adopted, compliance could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. our business is subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure, accounting and tax requirements that have increased both our costs and the risk of noncompliance. because our common stock is publicly traded, we are subject to certain rules and regulations of federal, state and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. these entities, including the public company accounting oversight board, the sec, and nasdaq, have implemented requirements and regulations and continue developing additional regulations and requirements in response to corporate scandals and laws enacted by congress, most notably the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. our efforts to comply with these regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue resulting in, increased general and administrative expenses and diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. we completed our evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting for the fiscal year ended april 24, 2009 as required by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. although our assessment, testing and evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of april 24, 2009, our internal controls over financial reporting were effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. if our internal controls are ineffective in future periods, our business and reputation could be harmed. we may incur additional expenses and commitment of 31 table of contents management time in connection with further evaluations, either of which could materially increase our operating expenses and accordingly reduce our operating results. because new and modified laws, regulations, and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. this evolution may result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and additional costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to our disclosure and governance practices. changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse unexpected fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. a change in accounting standards or practices and varying interpretations of existing accounting pronouncements, such as the increased use of fair value measures and the potential requirement that u.s. registrants prepare financial statements in accordance with international financial reporting standards (ifrs), could have a significant effect on our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk related to fluctuations in interest rates, market prices, and foreign currency exchange rates. we use certain derivative financial instruments to manage these risks. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. all financial instruments are used in accordance with management-approved policies. market risk and market interest risk investment and interest income as of april 24, 2009, we had available-for-sale investments of $1,228.2 million. our investment portfolio primarily consists of investments with original maturities at the date of purchase of greater than three months, which are classified as available-for-sale. these investments, consisting primarily of corporate bonds, corporate securities, u.s. government agency bonds, u.s. treasuries, certificates of deposit, and money market funds, are subject to interest rate and interest income risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates from levels at april 24, 2009 would cause the fair value of these available-for-sale investments to decline by approximately $1.6 million. 61 table of contents because we have the ability to hold these investments until maturity, we would not expect any significant decline in value of our investments caused by market interest rate changes. declines in interest rates over time will, however, reduce our interest income. we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. our investment policy is to limit credit exposure through diversification and investment in highly rated securities. we further mitigate concentrations of credit risk in our investments by limiting our investments in the debt securities of a single issuer and by diversifying risk across geographies and type of issuer. we actively review, along with our investment advisors, current investment ratings, company specific events, and general economic conditions in managing our investments and in determining whether there is a significant decline in fair value that is other-than-temporary. as a result of the bankruptcy filing of lehman brothers, we recorded in fiscal 2009 an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $11.8 million on our corporate bonds related to investments in lehman brothers securities and approximately $9.3 million on our investments in the reserve primary fund, which also held lehman brothers investments. we will continue to monitor and evaluate the accounting for our investment portfolio on a quarterly basis for additional other-than-temporary impairment charges. we could realize additional losses in our holdings of the primary fund and may not receive all or a portion of our remaining balance in the primary fund as a result of market conditions and ongoing litigation against the fund. we are also exposed to market risk relating to our auction rate securities due to uncertainties in the credit and capital markets. as of april 24, 2009, we determined there was a total decline in the fair value of our auction rate securities investments of approximately $8.8 million, of which we recorded temporary impairment charges of $7.0 million, offset by unrealized gains of $0.3 million, and $2.1 million was recognized as an other-than-temporary impairment charge. the fair value of our auction rate securities may change significantly due to events and conditions in the credit and capital markets. these securities/issuers could be subject to review for possible downgrade. any downgrade in these credit ratings may result in an additional decline in the estimated fair value of our auction rate securities. changes in the various assumptions used to value these securities and any increase in the markets perceived risk associated with such investments may also result in a decline in estimated fair value. if current market conditions deteriorate further, or the anticipated recovery in market values does not occur, we may be required to record additional unrealized losses in other comprehensive income (loss) or other-than-temporary impairment charges to earnings in future quarters. we intend and have the ability to hold these investments until the market recovers. we do not believe that the lack of liquidity relating to our portfolio investments will impact our ability to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures or other operating requirements. see note 8, fair value measurement, to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8; management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, liquidity and capital resources, in part ii, item 7; and risk factors in part i, item 1a of this annual report on form 10-k for a description of recent market events that may affect the value and liquidity of the investments in our portfolio that we held at april 24, 2009. lease commitments as of april 24, 2009, one of our four lease arrangements with bnpplc is based on a floating interest rate. the minimum lease payments will vary based on libor plus a spread. all of our leases have a term of five years, and we have the option to renew these leases for two consecutive five-year periods upon approval by bnpplc. a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rate from the level at april 24, 2009 would increase our lease payments on this one floating lease arrangement under the initial five-year term by an immaterial amount. we do not currently hedge against market interest rate increases. as additional cash flow generated from operations is invested at current market rates, it will offer a natural hedge against interest rate risk from our lease commitments in the event of a significant change in market interest rate. convertible notes in june 2008, we issued $1.265 billion principal amount of 1.75% notes due 2013. holders may convert their notes prior to maturity upon the occurrence of certain circumstances. upon conversion, we would pay the holder the cash value of the applicable number of shares of our common stock, up to the principal amount of the note. amounts in excess of the principal amount, if any, may be paid in cash or in stock at our option. concurrent with the issuance of the notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions and separately, warrant transactions, to reduce the potential dilution from the conversion of the notes and to mitigate any negative effect such conversion may have on the price of our common stock. 62 table of contents our notes have fixed annual interest rates at 1.75% and therefore, we do not have significant interest rate exposure on our notes. however, we are exposed to interest rate risk. generally, the fair market value of our fixed interest rate notes will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. in addition, the fair value of our notes is affected by our stock price. the carrying value of our notes was $1.265 billion, excluding $22.2 million of deferred debt issuance costs and total estimated fair value of our convertible debt at april 24, 2009 was $1.143 billion. the fair value was determined based on the closing trading price per $100 of our 1.75% notes as of the last day of trading for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, which was $90.38. nonmarketable securities we have from time to time made cash investments in companies with distinctive technologies that are potentially strategically important to us. our investments in nonmarketable securities would be negatively affected by an adverse change in equity market prices, although the impact cannot be directly quantified. such a change, or any negative change in the financial performance or prospects of the companies whose nonmarketable securities we own, would harm the ability of these companies to raise additional capital and the likelihood of our being able to realize any gains or return of our investments through liquidity events such as initial public offerings, acquisitions, and private sales. these types of investments involve a high degree of risk, and there can be no assurance that any company we invest in will grow or be successful. we do not currently engage in any hedging activities to reduce or eliminate equity price risk with respect to such nonmarketable investments. accordingly, we could lose all or part of these investments if there is an adverse change in the market price of a company we invest in. our investments in nonmarketable securities had a carrying amount of $4.0 million as of april 24, 2009 and $11.2 million as of april 25, 2008. if we determine that an other-than-temporary decline in fair value exists for a nonmarketable equity security, we write down the investment to its fair value and record the related write-down as an investment loss in our consolidated statements of operations. during fiscal 2009, we recorded net losses of $6.3 million for our investments in privately held companies. foreign currency exchange rate risk and foreign exchange forward contracts we hedge risks associated with foreign currency transactions to minimize the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on earnings. we utilize forward and option contracts to hedge against the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. all balance sheet hedges are marked to market through earnings every period. we also use foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge foreign currency forecasted transactions related to forecasted sales transactions. these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges under sfas no. 133. for cash flow hedges outstanding at april 24, 2009, the time-value component is recorded in earnings while all other gains or losses were included in other comprehensive income. we do not enter into foreign exchange contracts for speculative or trading purposes. in entering into forward and option foreign exchange contracts, we have assumed the risk that might arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts. we attempt to limit our exposure to credit risk by executing foreign exchange contracts with creditworthy multinational commercial banks. all contracts have a maturity of less than one year. 63 table of contentsrisk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. please see page 3 of this annual report on form 10-k for additional discussion of these 11 table of contents forward-looking statements. if any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. our operating results may be adversely affected by uncertain economic and market conditions. we are subject to the effects of general global economic and market conditions. challenging economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in the computer, storage, and networking industries at large, as well as the information technology ( it ) market, resulting in: reduced demand for our products as a result of constraints on it related spending by our customers; increased price competition for our products from competitors; deferment of purchases and orders by customers due to budgetary constraints or changes in current or planned utilization of our systems; risk of excess and obsolete inventories; risk of supply constraints: excess facilities costs; higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenues; negative impacts from increased financial pressures on customers, distributors and resellers; negative impacts from increased financial pressures on key suppliers or contract manufacturers; and potential discontinuance of product lines or businesses and related asset impairments. any of the above mentioned factors could have a material and adverse effect on our business and financial performance. our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which could adversely impact our common stock price. we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. our operating results have in the past, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly fluctuations as a result of numerous factors, some of which may contribute to more pronounced fluctuations during times of economic volatility. these factors include, but are not limited to, the following: fluctuations in demand for our products and services, in part due to changes in general economic conditions and specific economic conditions in the storage and data management market; a shift in federal government spending patterns; changes in sales and implementation cycles for our products and reduced visibility into our customers spending plans and associated revenues; the level of price and product competition in our target product markets; the impact of economic uncertainty on our customers budgets and it spending capacity; our ability to maintain appropriate inventory levels and purchase commitments; our reliance on a limited number of suppliers, and industry consolidation in our supply base, which could subject us to periodic supply-and-demand, price rigidity, and quality issues with our components; the timing of bookings, the cancellation of significant orders and the management of our backlog; product configuration and mix; the extent to which our customers renew their service and maintenance contracts with us; 12 table of contents seasonality, such as our historical seasonal decline in revenues in the first quarter of our fiscal year and seasonal increase in revenues in the second quarter of our fiscal year, with the latter due in part to the impact of the u.s. federal government september 30 fiscal year end on the timing of its orders; linearity, such as our historical intraquarter bookings and revenue pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter total bookings and related revenue occur in the last month of the quarter; announcements and introductions of, and transitions to, new products by us or our competitors; deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements introduced by us or our competitors; our ability to develop, introduce, and market new products and enhancements in a timely manner; our levels of expenditure on research and development and sales and marketing programs; our ability to effectively manage our operating expenses; adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates in the countries in which we do business; the dilutive impact of our $1.265 billion of 1.75% convertible senior notes due june 2013 (the notes ) and related warrants on our earnings per share; excess or inadequate facilities; actual events, circumstances, outcomes and amounts differing from judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in determining the values of certain assets (including the amounts of valuation allowances), liabilities, and other items reflected in our consolidated financial statements; disruptions resulting from new systems and processes as we continue to enhance and scale our system infrastructure; and future accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting rules, such as the increased use of fair value measures, changes in accounting standards related to revenue recognition, and the potential requirement that u.s. registrants prepare financial statements in accordance with international financial reporting standards (ifrs). due to such factors, operating results for a future period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. any of the foregoing factors, or any other factors discussed elsewhere herein, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. it is possible that in one or more quarters our results may fall below our forecasts and the expectations of public market analysts and investors. in such event, the trading price of our common stock would likely decrease. our revenue for a particular period is difficult to forecast, and a shortfall in revenue may harm our business and our operating results. our revenues for a particular period are difficult to forecast, especially in times of economic uncertainty. our revenues are also difficult to forecast because the storage and data management market is rapidly evolving, and our sales cycle varies substantially from customer to customer. new or additional product introductions also increase the complexities of forecasting revenues. we derive a majority of our revenues in any given quarter from orders booked in the same quarter. bookings typically follow intraquarter seasonality patterns weighted toward the back end of the quarter. if we do not achieve bookings in the latter part of a quarter consistent with our quarterly targets, our financial results will be adversely impacted. additionally, due to the complexities associated with revenue recognition, we may not accurately forecast our non-deferred and deferred revenues, which could adversely impact our results of operations. we use a pipeline system, a common industry practice, to forecast bookings and trends in our business. sales personnel monitor the status of potential business and estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision, the dollar amount of the sale and the products or services to be sold. these estimates are aggregated periodically to 13 table of contents generate a bookings pipeline. our pipeline estimates may prove to be unreliable either in a particular quarter or over a longer period of time, in part because the conversion rate of the pipeline into revenues varies from customer to customer, can be difficult to estimate, and requires management judgment, and also because customers purchasing decisions are subject to delay, reduction or cancellation. small deviations from our forecasted conversion rate may result in inaccurate plans and budgets and could materially and adversely impact our business or our planned results of operations. economic uncertainties have caused, and may in the future again cause, consumers, businesses and governments to defer purchases in response to tighter budgets, credit, decreased cash availability and declining customer confidence. accordingly, future demand for our products could differ from our current expectations. we have experienced periods of alternating growth and decline in revenues and operating expenses. if we are not able to successfully manage these fluctuations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly impacted. changing market conditions and economic uncertainty create a challenging operating environment for our business. it is critical that we maintain appropriate alignment between our cost structure and our expected growth and revenues, while at the same time, continue to make strategic investments for future growth. our expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to future revenues, and a significant percentage of our expenses are fixed. we have a limited ability to quickly or significantly reduce our fixed costs, and if revenue levels are below our expectations, operating results will be adversely impacted. during periods of uneven growth, we may incur costs before we realize the anticipated related benefits, which could harm our operating results. we have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in engineering, sales, service and support, marketing programs and other functions to support and grow our business. we are likely to recognize the costs associated with these investments earlier than some of the related anticipated benefits (revenue growth), and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. conversely, if we are unable to effectively manage our resources and capacity during periods of increasing demand for our products, we could also experience an adverse impact to our business, operating results and financial condition. if the storage and data management market fails to grow, or grows slower than we expect, our revenues will be adversely affected. also, even if it spending increases, our revenues may not grow at the same pace. our gross margins have varied over time and may continue to vary, and such variation may make it more difficult to forecast our earnings. our total gross margins are impacted by the mix of product, software entitlements and maintenance and services revenues. our product gross margins have been and may continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including: demand for storage and data management products; pricing actions, rebates, sales initiatives, discount levels, and price competition; direct versus indirect and oem sales; changes in customer, geographic, or product mix, including mix of configurations within products; the mix of sales to commercial and u.s. government sector end users; the timing and amount of revenue recognized and deferred; new product introductions and enhancements; licensing and royalty arrangements; 14 table of contents excess inventory levels or purchase commitments as a result of changes in demand forecasts or last time buy purchases; possible product and software defects as we transition our products; and the cost of components, contract manufacturing costs, quality, warranty, and freight. changes in software entitlements and maintenance gross margins may result from various factors, such as: the size of the installed base of products under support contracts; the timing of technical support service contract renewals; demand for and the timing of delivery of upgrades; and the level of spending on our customer support infrastructure. changes in service gross margins may result from various factors, such as: the mix of customers; the size and timing of service contract renewals; spares stocking requirements to support new product introductions; the volume, cost and use of outside partners to deliver support services on our behalf; and product quality and serviceability issues. due to such factors, gross margins are subject to variations from period to period and are difficult to predict. an increase in competition and industry consolidation could materially and adversely affect our operating results. the storage and data management markets are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapidly changing technology. in the storage market, our primary and near-line storage system products and our associated software portfolio compete primarily with storage system products and data management software from emc, hitachi data systems, hp, ibm, and oracle corporation, through its acquisition of sun microsystems. in addition, dell, inc. is a competitor in the storage marketplace through its business arrangement with emc, which allows dell to resell emc storage hardware and software products, as well as through dell acquisition of equallogic, through which dell offers low-priced storage solutions. in the secondary storage market, which includes the disk-to-disk backup, compliance and business continuity segments, our solutions compete primarily against products from emc and oracle corporation, through its acquisition of sun microsystems. there has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years. for example, in january 2010, oracle corporation, one of our strategic partners, completed its acquisition of sun microsystems, one of our competitors; in addition, in july 2009, emc, one of our competitors, acquired data domain. we expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies become unable to maintain their competitive positions or continue operations. we believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. in addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish strategic alliances among themselves or with third parties, including some of our partners. for example, in november 2009, cisco and emc together with vmware announced a virtual computing environment coalition. it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. we may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. competitive pressures we face could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. 15 table of contents disruption of or changes in our distribution model could harm our sales. if we fail to develop and maintain strong relationships with our distributors, or if our distributors fail to effectively manage the sale of our products or services on our behalf, our revenues and gross margins could be adversely affected. we market and sell our storage data management solutions directly through our worldwide sales force and indirectly through channel partners such as value-added resellers, systems integrators, distributors, oems and strategic business partners, and we derive a significant portion of our revenues from these indirect channels. during fiscal 2010, revenues generated from sales from our indirect channel distribution accounted for 69% of our revenues. in order for us to maintain or increase our revenues, we must effectively manage our relationships with channel partners. several factors could result in disruption of or changes in our indirect channel distribution model, which could materially harm our revenues and gross margins, including the following: our indirect channel partners may compete directly with other channel partners or with our direct sales force. due to these conflicts, our indirect channel partners could stop or reduce their efforts in marketing our products. our indirect channel partners may demand that we absorb a greater share of the risks that their customers may ask them to bear; our indirect channel partners may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes and challenges in business conditions; and our indirect channel partners financial condition or operations may weaken. there is no assurance that we will be able to attract new indirect channel partners, retain these indirect channel partners or that we will be able to secure additional or replacement indirect channel partners in the future, especially in light of changes in end customer demand patterns and changes in available and competing technologies from competitors. the loss of one or more of our key indirect channel partners in a given geographic area could harm our operating results within that area, as qualifying and developing new indirect channel partners typically requires a significant investment of time and resources before acceptable levels of productivity are met. our inability to effectively establish, train, retain and manage our distribution channel could harm our sales. in addition, we depend on our indirect channel partners to comply with applicable regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions in which they operate. their failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. our oem relationship may not continue to generate significant revenues. in april 2005, we entered into an oem agreement with ibm, which enables ibm to sell ibm branded solutions based on netapp unified solutions, including nearstore and v-series systems, as well as associated software offerings. while this agreement is an element of our strategy to expand our reach into more customers and countries, we do not have an exclusive relationship with ibm, and there is no minimum commitment for any given period of time; therefore, this relationship may not continue to generate significant revenues. in addition, we have no control over the products that ibm selects to sell, or its release schedule and timing of those products; nor do we control its pricing. in the event that sales through our oem relationship increase, we may experience distribution channel conflicts between our direct sales force and the oem or among our channel partners. if we fail to minimize channel conflicts, or if our oem relationship does not continue to generate significant revenues, our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. 16 table of contents a portion of our revenues is generated by large, recurring purchases from various customers, resellers and distributors. a loss, cancellation or delay in purchases by any of these parties has and in the future could negatively affect our revenues. during fiscal 2010, sales to distributors arrow and avnet accounted for approximately 14% and 11%, respectively of our net revenues. the loss of orders from these, or any of our more significant customers, strategic partners, distributors or resellers could cause our revenues and profitability to suffer. our ability to attract new customers will depend on a variety of factors, including the cost-effectiveness, reliability, scalability and comprehensiveness of our product offerings, and our ability to address customer demands. we also have an agreement with fujitsu technology solutions ( fujitsu ), which enables fujitsu to lease, sell, market and resell netapp products to end users and fujitsu sales partners worldwide and to integrate netapp products into fujitsu bundled offerings, as well as to market netapp support services. we generally do not enter into binding purchase commitments with our customers for an extended period of time, and thus we may not be able to continue to receive large, recurring orders from these customers, resellers or distributors. for example, our reseller agreements generally do not require minimum purchases and our customers, resellers and distributors can stop purchasing and marketing our products at any time. unfavorable economic conditions may negatively impact our operations by affecting the solvency of our customers, resellers and distributors, or the ability of our customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. if the uncertainty in the economy continues, or conditions deteriorate, and our sales decline, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely impacted. because our expenses are based on our revenue forecasts, a substantial reduction or delay in sales of our products to, or unexpected returns from customers and resellers, or the loss of any significant customer or reseller, could harm our business. we expect that our largest customers in the future could be different from our largest customers today. end users could stop purchasing and indirect channel partners could stop marketing our products at any time. the loss of one or more of our key indirect channel partners or the failure to obtain and ship a number of large orders each quarter could harm our operating results. in addition, a change in the pricing practices of one or more of our large customers could adversely affect our revenues and gross margins. the u.s. government has contributed to our revenue growth and has become an important customer for us. future revenue from the u.s. government is subject to shifts in government spending patterns. a decrease in government demand for our products could materially affect our revenues. in addition, our business could be adversely affected as a result of future examinations by the u.s. government. the u.s. government has become an important customer for the storage and data management market and for us; however, government demand is unpredictable, and there can be no assurance that we will maintain or grow our revenues from the u.s. government. government agencies are subject to budgetary processes and expenditure constraints that could lead to delays or decreased capital expenditures in it spending. if the government or individual agencies within the government reduce or shift their capital spending patterns, our revenues and operating results may be harmed. in addition, selling our products to the u.s. government also subjects us to certain regulatory requirements. for example, in april 2009, we entered into a settlement agreement with the united states of america, acting through the united states department of justice ( doj ) and on behalf of the general services administration (the gsa ), under which we paid the united states $128.0 million, plus interest of $0.7 million, related to a dispute regarding our discount practices and compliance with the price reduction clause provisions of gsa contracts between august 1997 and february 2005. the failure to comply with u.s. government regulatory requirements could subject us to fines and other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating results and financial position. if we are unable to maintain our existing relationships and develop new relationships with major strategic partners, our revenues may be impacted negatively. an element of our strategy to increase revenues is to strategically partner with major third-party software and hardware vendors to integrate our products into their products and also co-market our products with the vendors. we have significant partner relationships with database, business application, backup management and server 17 table of contents virtualization companies, including microsoft, oracle, sap, symantec and vmware. in addition, in november 2009, we announced our intention to expand our relationship with fujitsu, and in january 2010, we announced an expansion of our collaboration with cisco and vmware, including a cooperative support arrangement. a number of these strategic partners are industry leaders that offer us expanded access to segments of the storage and data management market. there is intense competition for attractive strategic partners, and even if we can establish relationships with these or other partners, these partnerships may not generate significant revenues or may not continue to be in effect for any specific period of time. if these relationships fail to materialize as expected, we could experience lower than expected revenue growth, suffer delays in product development, or other operational difficulties. in addition, some of our partners, including oracle, cisco and vmware, are also partnering with other storage vendors which may increase the availability of competing solutions, harm our ability to continue as the vendor of choice for those partners and harm our ability to grow our business with those partners. we intend to continue to establish and maintain business relationships with technology companies to expand our marketing reach and accelerate the development of our storage and data management solutions. to the extent that we are unsuccessful in developing new relationships or maintaining our existing relationships, our future revenues and operating results could be impacted negatively. in addition, the loss of a strategic partner could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. our future financial performance depends on growth in the storage and data management markets. if the performance of these markets does not meet the expectations upon which we calculate and forecast our revenues, our operating results will be materially and adversely impacted. all of our products address the storage and data management markets. accordingly, our future financial performance will depend in large part on continued growth in the storage and data management markets and on our ability to adapt to emerging standards in these markets. the markets for storage and data management have been recently adversely impacted by the global economic uncertainty, and as a result of continued uncertainty, the markets may not grow as anticipated or may decline. additionally, emerging standards in these markets may adversely affect the unix , windows and the world wide web server markets upon which we depend. for example, we provide our open access data retention solutions to customers within the financial services, healthcare, pharmaceutical and government market segments, industries that are subject to various evolving governmental regulations with respect to data access, reliability and permanence (such as rule 17(a)(4) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended) in the united states and in the other countries in which we operate. if our products do not meet and continue to comply with these evolving governmental regulations in this regard, customers in these market and geographical segments will not purchase our products, and we will not be able to expand our product offerings in these market and geographical segments at the rates which we have forecasted. supply chain issues, including financial problems of contract manufacturers or component suppliers, or a shortage of adequate component supply or manufacturing capacity that increases our costs or causes a delay in our ability to fulfill orders, could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results, and our failure to estimate customer demand properly may result in excess or obsolete component supply, which could adversely affect our gross margins. the fact that we do not own or operate our manufacturing facilities and supply chain exposes us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, production costs and product supply, which could have a material adverse impact on the supply of our products and on our business and operating results. we rely on a limited number of suppliers for components utilized in the assembly of our products, which has and could subject us to future periodic supply constraints and price rigidity. financial problems of either contract manufacturers, component suppliers or other parties in our supply chain and reservation of manufacturing capacity at our contract manufacturers by other companies, inside or outside of our industry, could either limit supply or increase costs of our products. qualifying a new contract manufacturer and 18 table of contents commencing volume production is expensive and time-consuming, and disruption or termination of manufacturing capacity from any contract manufacturer could negatively impact our ability to manufacture and sell our products. we intend to regularly introduce new products and product enhancements, which will require us to rapidly achieve volume production by coordinating with our contract manufacturers and suppliers. a reduction or interruption in supply; a significant increase in the price of one or more components; a failure to adequately procure inventory by our contract manufacturers; a failure to appropriately cancel, reschedule, or adjust our requirements based on our business needs; or a decrease in demand for our products could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition and could materially damage customer relationships. furthermore, as a result of binding price or purchase commitments with suppliers, we may be obligated to purchase components at prices that are higher than those available in the current market. in the event that we become committed to purchase components at prices in excess of the current market price when the components are actually used, our gross margins could decrease. as the demand for our products has increased, we have experienced, and may continue to experience tightening of supply of some components leading to longer lead times and component supply constraints, which has and in the future could continue to result in the delay of shipments. we are exposed to the credit and non-payment risk of our customers, resellers, and distributors, especially during times of economic uncertainty and tight credit markets, which could result in material losses. most of our sales to customers are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of 30 days. while we monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, and seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe are reasonable, we may experience losses due to a customer inability to pay. beyond our open credit arrangements, we also have recourse and nonrecourse customer financing leasing arrangements using third party leasing companies. under the terms of recourse leases, which are treated as off-balance sheet arrangements, we remain liable for the aggregate unpaid remaining lease payments to the third party leasing company in the event of end-user customer default. we also offer financing arrangements whereby the end-user customer pays a fixed monthly amount plus a variable amount based on actual storage capacity used. these arrangements subject us to additional risk around revenue recognition and profitability due to the uncertainties associated with the variable portion of the arrangements. in addition, from time to time we provide guarantees for a portion of other financing arrangements under which we could be called upon to make payments to our funding parties in the event of nonpayment by end-user customers. we expect demand for customer financing to continue. during periods of economic uncertainty, our exposure to credit risks from our customers increases. in addition, our exposure to credit risks of our customers may increase further if our customers and their customers or their lease financing sources are adversely affected by global economic conditions. in the past, there have been bankruptcies by our customers, both who have open credit and who have lease financing arrangements with us, causing us to incur bad debt charges, and, in the case of financing arrangements, a loss of revenues. we may be subject to similar losses in future periods. any future losses could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. additionally, to the extent that the recent turmoil in the credit markets makes it more difficult for customers to obtain open credit or lease financing, those customers ability to purchase our product could be adversely impacted, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. the market price for our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and will likely continue to do so in the future. the market price for our common stock has experienced substantial volatility in the past, and several factors could cause substantial fluctuation in the future. these factors include but are not limited to: fluctuations in our operating results compared to prior periods and forecasts; variations between our operating results and either the guidance we have furnished to the public or the published expectations of securities analysts; industry consolidation and the resulting perception of increased competition; 19 table of contents economic developments in the storage and data management market as a whole; fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us; changes in analysts recommendations or projections; changes in our relationships with our suppliers, customers, channel and strategic partners; announcements of the completion or dissolution of strategic alliances within the industry; dilutive impacts of our convertible notes and related warrants; international conflicts and acts of terrorism; announcements of new products, applications, or product enhancements by us or our competitors; inquiries by the sec, nasdaq, law enforcement, or other regulatory bodies; and general market conditions, including recent global or regional economic uncertainties. in addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that has particularly affected the market prices of the equity securities of many technology companies. certain macroeconomic factors such as changes in interest rates, the market climate for the technology sector, and levels of corporate spending on it, could continue to have an impact on the trading price of our stock, and the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future. changes in market conditions have led, and in the future could lead, to charges related to the discontinuance of certain of our products and asset impairments. in response to changes in economic conditions and market demands, we may decide to strategically realign our resources and consider cost containment measures including restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise discontinuing certain products. any decision to limit investment in, dispose of, or otherwise exit products may result in the recording of charges to earnings, including inventory and technology-related or other intangible asset write-offs, workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, cancellation penalties or claims from third parties who were resellers or users of discontinued products, which would harm our operating results. our estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions. additionally, we are required to perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis, and between annual tests in certain circumstances when impairment indicators exist or if certain events or changes in circumstances have occurred. future goodwill impairment tests may result in charges to earnings, which could materially harm our operating results. if we are unable to develop and introduce new products and respond to technological change, if our new products do not achieve market acceptance, if we fail to manage the interoperability and transition between our new and old products, or if we cannot provide the expected level of service and support for our new products, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. our future growth depends upon the successful development and introduction of new hardware and software products. due to the complexity of storage subsystems and storage security appliances and the difficulty in gauging the engineering effort required to produce new products, such products are subject to significant technical risks. in addition, our new products must respond to technological changes and evolving industry standards. if we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, or if such products do not achieve market acceptance, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. new or additional product introductions increase the complexities of forecasting revenues, and subject us to additional financial and operational risks. if they are not managed effectively, we could experience material risks to our operations, financial condition and business model. as new or enhanced products are introduced, we must successfully manage the interoperability and transition from older products in order to minimize disruption in customers ordering patterns, avoid excessive levels of older product inventories, and ensure that enough supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customers demands. 20 table of contents as we enter new or emerging markets, we will likely increase demands on our service and support operations and may be exposed to additional competition. we may not be able to provide products, service and support to effectively compete for these market opportunities. risks inherent in our international operations could have a material adverse effect on our business. a substantial portion of our revenues are derived from sales outside of the united states. during fiscal 2010, our international revenues accounted for 50% of our total revenues. a substantial portion of our products are manufactured outside of the u.s., and we have research and development and service centers overseas. accordingly, our business and our future operating results could be adversely affected by a variety of factors affecting our international operations, some of which are beyond our control, including regulatory, political, or economic conditions in a specific country or region, trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements, government spending patterns, and acts of terrorism and international conflicts. in addition, we may not be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. our international sales are denominated in u.s. dollars and in foreign currencies. an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products more expensive and therefore potentially less competitive in foreign markets. conversely, lowering our price in local currency may result in lower u.s.-based revenues. a decrease in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies could increase operating expenses in foreign markets. additionally, we have exposures to emerging market currencies, which can experience extreme volatility. we utilize forward and option contracts to hedge our foreign currency exposure associated with certain assets and liabilities as well as anticipated foreign currency cash flows on a short-term basis. all balance sheet hedges are marked to market through earnings every quarter. the time-value component of our cash flow hedges is recorded in earnings while all other gains and losses are marked to market through other comprehensive income until forecasted transactions occur, at which time such realized gains and losses are recognized in earnings. these hedges attempt to reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange movements. factors that could have a negative impact on the effectiveness of our hedging program include inaccuracies in forecasting, widening interest rate differentials, and volatility in the foreign exchange market. our hedging strategies may not be successful and currency exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. certain united states government export restrictions impede our ability to sell to certain end users certain of our products. the united states, through the bureau of industry security, places restrictions on the export of certain encryption technology. these restrictions may include: the requirement to have a license to export the technology; the requirement to have software licenses approved before export is allowed; and outright bans on the licensing of certain encryption technology to particular end users or to all end users in a particular country. certain of our products are subject to various levels of export restrictions. these export restrictions could negatively impact our business. our international operations are subject to other risks, including general import/export restrictions, regulations related to data privacy, and other complex rules and regulations under which we must conduct business in foreign countries. we are also subject to the potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than u.s. law. such factors could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial position. additional risks inherent in our international business activities generally include, among others, longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in managing international operations. moreover, in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act. although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of these policies. any such violation could subject us to fines and other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 21 table of contents changes in our effective tax rate or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we are taxed at lower rates as compared to the u.s. statutory tax rate; material differences between forecasted and actual tax rates as a result of a shift in the mix of pretax profits and losses by tax jurisdiction, our ability to use tax credits, or effective tax rates by tax jurisdiction that differ from our estimates; changing tax laws or related interpretations, accounting standards, regulations, and interpretations in multiple tax jurisdictions in which we operate, as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings; an increase in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including certain stock-based compensation expense, write-offs of acquired in-process research and development, and impairment of goodwill; the tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods; changes related to our ability to ultimately realize future benefits attributed to our deferred tax assets, including those related to other-than-temporary impairments; tax assessments resulting from income tax audits or any related tax interest or penalties could significantly affect our income tax provision for the period in which the settlements take place; and a change in our decision to indefinitely reinvest foreign earnings. we receive significant tax benefits from sales to our non-u.s. customers. these benefits are contingent upon existing tax regulations in the united states and in the countries in which our international operations are located. future changes in domestic or international tax regulations could adversely affect our ability to continue to realize these tax benefits. we have not provided for united states federal and state income taxes or foreign withholding taxes that may result on future remittances of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. the obama administration has announced several proposals to reform united states tax rules, including proposals that may result in a reduction or elimination of the deferral of united states income tax on our future unrepatriated earnings. should such anti-deferral provisions be enacted, our effective tax rate could be adversely affected. we are currently undergoing federal income tax audits in the united states and several foreign tax jurisdictions. the rights to some of our intellectual property ( ip ) are owned by certain of our foreign subsidiaries, and payments are made between u.s. and foreign tax jurisdictions relating to the use of this ip in a qualified cost sharing arrangement. in recent years, several other u.s. companies have had their foreign ip arrangements challenged as part of irs examinations, which has resulted in material proposed assessments and/or litigation with respect to those companies. during fiscal year 2009, we received notices of proposed adjustments from the irs in connection with a federal income tax audit of our fiscal 2003 and 2004 tax returns. we filed a protest with the irs in response to the notices of proposed adjustments and subsequently received a rebuttal from the irs examination team in response to our protest. we recently were informed by the irs that this audit will proceed to the irs appeals level for further administrative review. the notices of proposed adjustments in this audit focus primarily on issues of the timing and the amount of income recognized and deductions taken during the audit years and on the level of cost allocations made to foreign operations during the audit years. the irs recently commenced the examination of our fiscal 2005 through 2007 federal income tax returns, and in addition, the california franchise tax board has notified us of their intent to examine our fiscal 2007 and 2008 california tax returns. the scope of the irs and california franchise tax board examinations are unclear at this time. if the ultimate determination of income taxes assessed under the current irs audits or under audits being conducted in any of the other tax jurisdictions in which we operate results in an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. 22 table of contents our international operations currently benefit from a tax ruling concluded in the netherlands which expires on april 30, 2015 and results in a lower level of earnings subject to tax in the netherlands. if we are unable to negotiate a similar tax ruling upon expiration of the current ruling, our effective tax rate could increase and our operating results could be adversely affected. our effective tax rate could also be adversely affected by different and evolving interpretations of existing law or regulations, which in turn would negatively impact our operating and financial results as a whole. our effective tax rate could also be adversely affected if there is a change in international operations and how the operations are managed and structured. the price of our common stock could decline to the extent that our financial results are materially affected by an adverse change in our effective tax rate. our leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and our earnings per share. as a result of the sale of our notes, we have a greater amount of long-term debt than we have maintained in the past. in addition, we have various synthetic lease arrangements related to some of our facilities at our corporate headquarters in sunnyvale, california, and, subject to the restrictions in our existing and any future financing agreements, we may incur additional debt. our maintenance of higher levels of indebtedness could have adverse consequences including: impacting our ability to satisfy our obligations; increasing the portion of our cash flows from operations may have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and making us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general. our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. we will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions and governmental regulations. furthermore, our operations may not generate sufficient cash flows to enable us to meet our expenses and service our debt. as a result, we may be required to repatriate funds from our foreign subsidiaries which could result in a significant tax liability to us. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or if we are unable to repatriate sufficient or any funds from our foreign subsidiaries, in order to meet our expenses and debt service obligations, we may need to enter into new financing arrangements to obtain the necessary funds, or we may be required to raise additional funds through other means. if we determine it is necessary to seek additional funding for any reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if funding is available, obtain it on acceptable terms. if we fail to make a payment on our debt, we could be in default on such debt, and this default could cause us to be in default on our other outstanding indebtedness. the note hedges and warrant transactions that we entered into in connection with the sale of the notes may affect the trading price of our common stock. in connection with the issuance of the notes, we entered into privately negotiated convertible note hedge transactions with certain option counterparties (the counterparties ), which are expected to offset the potential dilution to our common stock upon any conversion of the notes. at the same time, we also entered into warrant transactions with the counterparties pursuant to which we may issue shares of our common stock above a certain strike price. in connection with these hedging transactions, the counterparties may have entered into various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock or purchased shares of our common stock in secondary market transactions at or following the pricing of the notes. such activities may have had the effect of increasing the price of our common stock. the counterparties are likely to modify their hedge positions from time to time prior to conversion or maturity of the notes by purchasing and selling shares of our common stock or entering into other derivative transactions. additionally, these transactions may expose us to counterparty credit risk for nonperformance. the effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock or the notes will depend, in part, on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any 23 table of contents of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock. in addition, if our stock price exceeds the strike price for the warrants, there could be additional dilution to our shareholders, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. lehman brothers otc derivatives, inc. ( lehman otc ) was the counterparty to 20% of our note hedges. the bankruptcy filing by lehman otc on october 3, 2008 constituted an event of default under the hedge transaction. in april 2010, we terminated the hedge transaction with lehman otc in exchange for an unsecured bankruptcy claim, which we subsequently sold to a third party for approximately $14 million. because we have decided not to replace the hedge, we are subject to potential dilution on the 20% unhedged portion of our notes upon conversion if on the date of conversion the per-share market price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price of $31.85. the terms of the notes, the rights of the holders of the notes and other counterparties to note hedges and warrants were not affected by the termination of this hedge. the price of our common stock could also be affected by sales of our common stock by investors who view the notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that we expect to develop involving our common stock by holders of the notes. the hedging or arbitrage could, in turn, affect the trading price of the notes and warrants. future issuances of common stock related to our notes, warrants, stock options, restricted stock units, and our employee stock purchase plan may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and the notes. the conversion of some or all of our outstanding notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders to the extent we deliver common stock upon conversion of the notes. we will satisfy our obligation upon conversion by delivering cash for the principal amount of the notes and shares of common stock, if any, to the extent the conversion value exceeds the principal amount. any new issuance of equity securities, including the issuance of shares upon conversion of the notes or the exercise of related warrants which are not offset by our note hedges, could dilute the interests of our then-existing stockholders, including holders who receive shares upon conversion of their notes, and could substantially decrease the trading price of our common stock and the notes. in addition, any sales in the public market of any common stock issuable upon such conversion or the exercise of warrants could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. as of april 30, 2010, we had options to purchase approximately 35 million shares of our common stock outstanding and a total of approximately 9 million restricted shares and restricted stock units outstanding. if all of these outstanding options were exercised, and all of the outstanding restricted stock and restricted stock units vested, the proceeds to the company would average approximately $18 per share. we also had 15.5 million shares of our common stock reserved for issuance under our stock plans with respect to equity awards that have not been granted. the exercise of all of the outstanding options and/or the vesting of all outstanding restricted shares and restricted stock units would dilute the interests of our then-existing stockholders, and any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such exercise could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. in addition, we have an employee stock purchase plan (espp) under which employees are entitled to purchase shares of our common stock at 85% of the fair market value at certain specified dates over a two-year period. as of april 30, 2010, we had approximately 5.0 million shares of our common stock available for issuance under the espp. the issuance of shares under the espp would dilute the interests of our then-existing stockholders, and any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such exercise could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. we may issue equity securities in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations related to business strategy (including in connection with acquisitions, strategic alliances or other transactions), to increase our capital, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding warrants or options upon conversion of the notes, or for other reasons. 24 table of contents we are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates; impairment of our investments could harm our financial results. at april 30, 2010, we had $3.8 billion in cash, cash equivalents, available-for-sale securities and restricted cash and investments. we invest our cash in a variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of investments in u.s. treasury securities, commercial paper, u.s. government agency bonds, corporate bonds, auction rate securities, certificates of deposit, and money market funds. these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which have been exacerbated by unusual events such as the financial and credit crisis, and bankruptcy filings in the united states which have affected various sectors of the financial markets and led to global credit and liquidity issues. these securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax. investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate debt securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates. currently, we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. we may suffer losses if forced to sell securities that have experienced a decline in market value because of changes in interest rates. currently, we do not use financial derivatives to hedge our interest rate exposure. the fair value of our investments may change significantly due to events and conditions in the credit and capital markets. for instance, as a result of the bankruptcy filing of lehman brothers, which occurred during fiscal 2009, we recorded an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $11.8 million on our corporate bonds related to investments in lehman brothers securities and approximately $9.3 million on our investments in the primary fund that held lehman brothers investments. any investment securities that we hold or the issues of such securities could be subject to review for possible downgrade. any downgrade in these credit ratings may result in an additional decline in the estimated fair value of our investments. changes in the various assumptions used to value these securities and any increase in the markets perceived risk associated with such investments may also result in a decline in estimated fair value. if such investments suffer market price declines, as we experienced with some of our investments during fiscal 2009, we may recognize in earnings the decline in the fair value of our investments below their cost basis when the decline is judged to be other-than-temporary. on occasion, we make strategic investments in other companies, including private equity funds, which may decline in value and/or not meet desired objectives. the success of these investments depends on various factors over which we may have limited or no control. as of april 30, 2010, we had an investment with the carrying value of $1.4 million in a private equity fund. the risks to our strategic investment portfolio may be exacerbated by unfavorable financial market and macroeconomic conditions and, as a result, the value of the investment portfolio could be negatively impacted and lead to impairment charges. in the event of adverse conditions in the credit and capital markets, our investment portfolio may be impacted and we could determine that some or all of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring further impairments, which could adversely impact our financial position and operating results. a significant portion of our cash and cash equivalents balances are held overseas. if we are not able to generate sufficient cash domestically in order to fund our u.s. operations and strategic opportunities, and to service our debt, we may incur a significant tax liability in order to repatriate the overseas cash balances, or we may need to raise additional capital in the future. a portion of our earnings which is generated from our international operations is held and invested by certain of our foreign subsidiaries. these amounts are not freely available for dividend repatriation to the united states without triggering significant adverse tax consequences, which could adversely affect our financial results. as a result, if the cash generated by our domestic operations is not sufficient to fund our domestic operations, our broader corporate initiatives such as stock repurchases, acquisitions, and other strategic opportunities, and to service our outstanding indebtedness, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings, or we may need to obtain new credit facilities to the extent we choose not to repatriate our overseas cash. such 25 table of contents additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all, and any new equity financings or offerings would dilute our current stockholders ownership. furthermore, lenders, particularly in light of the current challenges in the credit markets, may not agree to extend us new, additional or continuing credit. if adequate funds are not available, or are not available on acceptable terms, we may be forced to repatriate our foreign cash and incur a significant tax expense or we may not be able to take advantage of strategic opportunities, develop new products, respond to competitive pressures or repay our outstanding indebtedness. in any such case, our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely impacted. our synthetic leases are off-balance sheet arrangements that could negatively affect our financial condition and operating results. we have invested substantial resources in new facilities and physical infrastructure, which will increase our fixed costs. our operating results could be harmed if our business does not grow proportionately to our increase in fixed costs. we have various synthetic lease arrangements with bnp paribas leasing corporation as lessor ( bbpplc ) for our headquarters office buildings and land in sunnyvale, california. these synthetic leases qualify for operating lease accounting treatment under the accounting guidance for leases and are not considered variable interest entities under applicable accounting guidance. therefore, we do not include the properties or the associated debt on our condensed consolidated balance sheet. however, if circumstances were to change regarding our or bnpplc ownership of the properties, or in bnpplc overall portfolio, we could be required to consolidate the entity, the leased facilities and the associated debt. our future minimum lease payments under these synthetic leases limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business by restricting the funds available for use in addressing such changes. if we are unable to grow our business and revenues proportionately to our increase in fixed costs, our operating results will be harmed. if we elect not to purchase the properties at the end of the lease term, we have guaranteed a minimum residual value to bnpplc. if the fair value of the properties declines below that guaranteed minimum residual value, our residual value guarantee would require us to pay the difference to bnpplc. as of april 30, 2010, the estimated fair value of the properties was approximately $36.9 million below the guaranteed minimum residual value, which we will accrue over the remaining term of the respective leases. any further decline in the fair value of the properties could adversely impact our cash flows, financial condition and operating results. as a result of excess capacity in our sunnyvale facilities, certain of our facilities subject to synthetic lease arrangements have been subleased or are vacant. these subleases will expire through 2012 and we may not be able to generate sufficient sublease income to cover the carrying costs of these facilities. in addition, we may experience changes in our operations in the future that could result in additional excess capacity and vacant facilities. we will continue to be responsible for all carrying costs of these facilities under operating leases until such time as we can sublease these facilities or terminate the applicable leases based on the contractual terms of the operating lease agreements, and these costs may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. we have credit exposure to our hedging counterparties. in order to minimize volatility in earnings associated with fluctuations in the value of foreign currency relative to the u.s. dollar, we utilize forward and option contracts to hedge our exposure to foreign currencies. as a result of entering into these hedging contracts with major financial institutions, we may be subject to counterparty nonperformance risk. should there be a counterparty default, we could be exposed to the net losses on the hedged arrangements or be unable to recover anticipated net gains from the transactions. we are subject to restrictive and financial covenants in our synthetic lease arrangements. the restrictive covenants may restrict our ability to operate our business. our ongoing extension of credit under our synthetic lease arrangements are subject to continued compliance with financial covenants. if we do not comply with these restrictive and financial covenants or otherwise default under the arrangements, we may be required to repay any outstanding amounts or repurchase the properties which are subject to the synthetic lease arrangements. if we lose access to the synthetic lease arrangements, we may not be able to obtain alternative financing on acceptable terms, which could limit our operating flexibility. 26 table of contents the agreements governing our synthetic lease arrangements contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to operate our business, including restrictions on our ability to: incur indebtedness; incur indebtedness at the subsidiary level; grant liens; sell all or substantially all our assets: enter into certain mergers; change our business; enter into swap agreements; enter into transactions with our affiliates; and enter into certain restrictive agreements. as a result of these restrictive covenants, our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be restricted. we may also be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us, such as strategic acquisitions or joint ventures. our failure to comply with the restrictive and financial covenants could result in a default under our synthetic lease arrangements, which would give the counterparties thereto the ability to exercise certain rights, including the right to accelerate the amounts owed thereunder and to terminate the arrangement. in addition, our failure to comply with these covenants and the acceleration of amounts owed under synthetic lease arrangements could result in a default under the notes, which could permit the holders to accelerate the notes. if all of our debt is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available to repay such debt. funds associated with certain of our auction rate securities may not be accessible for more than 12 months and our auction rate securities may experience further other-than-temporary declines in value, which would adversely affect our earnings. auction rate securities (arss) held by us are securities with long-term nominal maturities, which, in accordance with investment policy guidelines, had credit ratings of aaa and aaa at time of purchase. interest rates for ars are reset through a dutch auction each month, which prior to february 2008 had provided a liquid market for these securities. all of our arss are backed by pools of student loans guaranteed by the u.s. department of education, and we believe the credit quality of these securities is high based on this guarantee. however, liquidity issues in the global credit markets resulted in the failure of auctions for certain of our ars investments, with a par value of $73.8 million. for each failed auction, the interest rate resets to a maximum rate defined for each security, and the ars continue to pay interest in accordance with their terms, although the principal associated with the ars will not be accessible until there is a successful auction or such time as other markets for ars investments develop or the final maturity of the individual securities. as of april 30, 2010, we determined there was a total decline in the fair value of our ars investments of approximately $4.7 million, of which we have recorded cumulative temporary impairment charges of $2.6 million, and $2.1 million was recognized as an other-than-temporary impairment charge. in addition, we have classified all of our auction rate securities as long-term assets in our consolidated balance sheets at april 30, 2010 as our ability to liquidate such securities in the next 12 months is uncertain. although we currently have the ability and intent to hold these ars investments until recovery in market value or until maturity, if current market conditions deteriorate further, or the anticipated recovery in market liquidity does not occur, we may be required to record additional impairment charges in future quarters. 27 table of contents we may need to undertake cost-reduction initiatives and restructuring initiatives in the future. we have previously recognized restructuring charges related to initiatives to realign our business strategies and resize our business in response to economic and market conditions, including those announced in february 2009 and december 2008. we may undertake future cost-reduction initiatives and restructuring plans that may adversely impact our operations and we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of our prior or any future restructurings. our acquisitions may not provide the anticipated benefits and may disrupt our existing business. as part of our strategy, we are continuously evaluating opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that would complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets, or enhance our technical capabilities. the success of our acquisitions is impacted by a number of factors, and may be subject to the following risks: the inability to successfully integrate the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired companies; the diversion of management attention from normal daily operations of the business; the loss of key employees; substantial transaction costs and accounting charges; and exposure to litigation related to acquisitions. any future acquisitions may also result in risks to our existing business, including: dilution of our current stockholders percentage ownership to the extent we issue new equity; assumption of additional liabilities; incurrence of additional debt or a decline in available cash; adverse effects to our financial statements, such as the need to make large and immediate write-offs or the incurrence of restructuring and other related expenses; liability for intellectual property infringement and other litigation claims, which we may or may not be aware of at the time of acquisition; and creation of goodwill or other intangible assets that could result in significant future amortization expense or impairment charges. the failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of an acquisition may also result in impairment charges for goodwill or acquired intangibles. for example, in fiscal 2009, we announced our decision to cease the development and availability of our smos product, which was originally acquired through our acquisition of topio, inc. in fiscal 2007, resulting in the impairment of acquired intangibles related to such acquisition. additional or realized risks of this nature could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the occurrence of any of the above risks could seriously harm our business. if we are unable to establish fair value for any undelivered element of a sales arrangement, all or a portion of the revenues relating to the arrangement could be deferred to future periods. in the course of our sales efforts, we often enter into multiple element arrangements that include our systems and one or more of the following undelivered software-related elements: software entitlements and maintenance, premium hardware maintenance, and storage review services. if we are required to change the pricing of our software-related elements through discounting, or otherwise introduce variability in the pricing of such elements, we may be unable to maintain vendor specific objective evidence of fair value of the undelivered elements of the arrangement, and would therefore be required to delay the recognition of all or a portion of the related arrangement. a delay in the recognition of revenues may cause fluctuations in our financial results and may adversely affect our operating margins. 28 table of contents we are continually seeking ways to make our cost structure and business processes more efficient, including moving activities from higher-cost to lower-cost owned locations, as well as outsourcing certain business process functions. problems with the execution of these activities could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. we continuously seek to make our cost structure and business processes more efficient. we are focused on increasing workforce flexibility and scalability, and improving overall competitiveness by leveraging our global capabilities, as well as external talent and skills worldwide. for example, certain engineering activities and projects that were formerly performed in the u.s. have been moved to lower cost international locations and we rely on partners or third party service providers for the provision of certain business process functions and activities in it, human resources and accounting. the challenges involved with these initiatives include executing business functions in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures. we are also subject to increased business continuity risks as we increase our reliance on such parties. for example, we may no longer be able to exercise control over some aspects of the future development, support or maintenance of outsourced operations and processes, including the management and internal controls associated with those outsourced business operations and processes, which could adversely affect our business. if we are unable to effectively utilize or integrate and interoperate with external resources or if our partners or third party service providers experience business difficulties or are unable to provide business services as anticipated, we may need to seek alternative service providers or resume providing these business processes internally, which could be costly and time-consuming and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. in addition, we may not achieve the expected benefits of our business process improvement initiatives. we are subject to risks related to the provision of employee health care benefits. we use a combination of insurance and self-insurance for workers compensation coverage and health care plans. we record expenses under these plans based on estimates of the number and costs of expected claims, administrative costs and stop-loss premiums. these estimates are then adjusted each year to reflect actual costs incurred. actual costs under these plans are subject to variability depending primarily upon participant enrollment and demographics, the actual number and costs of claims made and whether and how much the stop-loss insurance we purchase covers the cost of these claims. in the event that our cost estimates differ from actual costs, we could incur additional unplanned health care costs which could adversely impact our financial condition. in march 2010, comprehensive health care reform legislation under the patient protection and affordable care act (hr 3590) and the health care education and affordability reconciliation act (hr 4872) (collectively, the acts ) was passed and signed into law. among other things, the health reform legislation includes guaranteed coverage requirements, eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions and annual and lifetime maximum limits, restricts the extent to which policies can be rescinded, and imposes new and significant taxes on health insurers and health care benefits. provisions of the health reform legislation become effective at various dates over the next several years. the department of health and human services, the national association of insurance commissioners, the department of labor and the treasury department have yet to issue necessary enabling regulations and guidance with respect to the health care reform legislation. due to the breadth and complexity of the health reform legislation, the lack of implementing regulations and interpretive guidance, and the phased-in nature of the implementation, it is difficult to predict the overall impact of the health reform legislation on our business over the coming years. possible adverse affects of the health reform legislation include reduced revenues, increased costs, exposure to expanded liability and requirements for us to revise the ways in which we conduct business or risk of loss of business. in addition, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. we depend on attracting and retaining qualified personnel. if we are unable to attract and retain such personnel, our operating results could be materially and adversely impacted. our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to identify, attract, motivate and retain qualified personnel. because our future success is dependent on our ability to continue to enhance and introduce new 29 table of contents products, we are particularly dependent on our ability to identify, attract, motivate and retain qualified engineers with the requisite education, background and industry experience. competition for qualified employees, particularly in silicon valley, can be intense. the loss of the services of a significant number of our employees, particularly our engineers, salespeople and key managers, could be disruptive to our development efforts or business relationships and could materially and adversely affect our operating results. additionally, a component of our strategy to hire and retain personnel consists of long-term compensation in the form of equity-based grants. we face increased risk of the inability to continue to offer equity if we are unable to obtain shareholder approval in light of increased shareholder activism and heightened focus on corporate compensation practices. such inability could adversely impact our ability to continue to attract and retain employees. our business could be materially and adversely affected as a result of a natural disaster, terrorist acts or other catastrophic events. we depend on the ability of our personnel, raw materials, equipment and products to move reasonably unimpeded around the world. any political, military, terrorism, global trade, world health or other issue that hinders this movement or restricts the import or export of materials could lead to significant business disruptions. furthermore, any strike, economic failure or other material disruption caused by fire, floods, hurricanes, volcanoes, power loss, power shortages, environmental disasters, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events could also adversely affect our ability to conduct business. if such disruptions result in cancellations of customer orders or contribute to a general decrease in economic activity or corporate spending on information technology, or directly impact our marketing, manufacturing, financial and logistics functions, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. in addition, our headquarters are located in northern california, an area susceptible to earthquakes. if any significant disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business could be impaired. undetected software errors, hardware errors, or failures found in new products may result in loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, which could increase our costs and reduce our revenues. product quality problems could lead to reduced revenues, gross margins and operating results. our products may contain undetected software errors, hardware errors or failures when first introduced or as new versions are released. despite testing by us and by current and potential customers, errors may not be found in new products until after commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in loss of or delay in market acceptance, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. in addition, if we fail to remedy a product defect, we may experience a failure of a product line, temporary or permanent withdrawal from a product or market, damage to our reputation, inventory costs or product reengineering expenses, and these occurrences could have a material impact on our revenues, gross margins and operating results. we may be subject to losses that may result from or are alleged to result from defects in our products, which could subject us to claims for damages, including consequential damages. we are exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims and protection of intellectual property rights, which could adversely affect our operating results. we are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business, including our ongoing litigation with sun microsystems which was recently acquired by oracle corporation. litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. an unfavorable resolution of a particular lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may be subject to increased competition that could materially and adversely affect our operating results. our success depends significantly upon our proprietary technology. we rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions, and patents to protect our proprietary rights. we seek to protect our software, documentation and other written materials under trade secret, copyright and patent laws, which afford only limited protection. 30 table of contents some of our u.s. trademarks are registered internationally as well. we will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks as appropriate. we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and with our resellers, strategic partners and customers. we currently have multiple u.s. and international patent applications pending and multiple u.s. patents issued. the pending applications may not be approved, and our existing and future patents may be challenged. if such challenges are brought, the patents may be invalidated. we may not be able to develop proprietary products or technologies that are patentable, or where any issued patent will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties. further, the patents of others may materially and adversely affect our ability to do business. in addition, a failure to obtain and defend our trademark registrations may impede our marketing and branding efforts and competitive position. litigation may be necessary to protect our proprietary technology. any such litigation may be time-consuming and costly. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the united states. our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate or our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products, or design around patents issued to us or other intellectual property rights of ours. we are subject to intellectual property infringement claims. we may, from time to time, receive claims that we are infringing third parties intellectual property rights. third parties may in the future, claim infringement by us with respect to current or future products, patents, trademarks or other proprietary rights. we expect that companies in the network storage and data management market will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. any such claims could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays, require us to redesign our products or enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. our business could be materially adversely affected by changes in regulations or standards regarding energy efficiency of our products and climate change issues. we continually seek ways to increase the energy efficiency of our products. recent analyses have estimated the amount of global carbon emissions that are due to information technology products. as a result, governmental and non-governmental organizations have turned their attention to development of regulations and standards to drive technological improvements and reduce such amount of carbon emissions. there is a risk that the development of these standards will not fully address the complexity of the technology developed by the it industry or will favor certain technological approaches. depending on the regulations or standards that are ultimately adopted, compliance could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. climate change issues, energy usage and emissions controls may result in new environmental legislation and regulations, at any or all of the international, federal and state levels, that may unfavorably impact us, our suppliers, and our customers in how we conduct our business including the design, development, and manufacturing of our products. this could cause us to incur additional direct costs in complying with any new environmental regulations, as well as increased indirect costs resulting from our customers, suppliers or both incurring additional compliance costs that get passed on to us. these costs may adversely impact our operations and financial condition. our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted as a consequence of regulations or business trends such as: decreased demand for storage products that produce significant greenhouse gases increased demand for storage products that produce lower emissions and are more energy efficient, and increased competition to develop such products; and reputational risk based on negative public perception of publicly reported data on our greenhouse gas emissions. 31 table of contents our business is subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure, accounting and tax requirements that have increased both our costs and the risk of noncompliance. because our common stock is publicly traded, we are subject to certain rules and regulations of federal, state and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. these entities, including the public company accounting oversight board, the sec, and nasdaq, have implemented requirements and regulations and continue developing additional regulations and requirements in response to corporate scandals and laws enacted by congress, most notably the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. our efforts to comply with these regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue resulting in, increased general and administrative expenses and diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. we completed our evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting for the fiscal year ended april 30, 2010 as required by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. although our assessment, testing and evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of april 30, 2010, our internal controls over financial reporting were effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. if our internal controls are ineffective in future periods, our business and reputation could be harmed. we may incur additional expenses and commitment of management time in connection with further evaluations, both of which could materially increase our operating expenses and accordingly reduce our operating results. because new and modified laws, regulations, and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. this evolution may result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and additional costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to our disclosure and governance practices. changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse unexpected fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. a change in accounting standards or practices and varying interpretations of existing accounting pronouncements, such as changes to standards related to revenue recognition standards recently adopted by the fasb, the increased use of fair value measure, and the potential requirement that u.s. registrants prepare financial statements in accordance with international financial reporting standards ( ifrs ), could have a significant effect on our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk related to fluctuations in interest rates, market prices, and foreign currency exchange rates. we use certain derivative financial instruments to manage these risks. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. all financial instruments are used in accordance with management-approved policies. market risk and market interest risk investment and interest income as of april 30, 2010, we had available-for-sale investments of $2.1 billion. our investment portfolio primarily consists of investments with original maturities at the date of purchase of greater than three months, which are classified as available-for-sale. these investments, consisting primarily of corporate bonds, commercial paper, u.s. government agency bonds, u.s. treasuries, and certificates of deposit, are subject to interest rate and interest income risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates from levels at april 30, 2010 would cause the fair value of these available-for-sale investments to decline by approximately $3.6 million. volatility in market interest rates over time will cause variability in our interest income. we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. our investment policy is to limit credit exposure through diversification and investment in highly rated securities. we further mitigate concentrations of credit risk in our investments by limiting our investments in the debt securities of a single issuer and by diversifying risk across geographies and type of issuer. we actively review, along with our investment advisors, current investment ratings, company specific events and general economic conditions in managing our investments and in determining whether there is a significant decline in fair value that is other-than-temporary. we will monitor and evaluate the accounting for our investment portfolio on a quarterly basis for additional other-than-temporary impairment charges. 58 table of contents we are also exposed to market risk relating to our auction rate securities due to uncertainties in the credit and capital markets. as of april 30, 2010, we recorded cumulative unrealized loss of $3.3 million, offset by $0.7 million of unrealized gains related to these securities. the fair value of our auction rate securities may change significantly due to events and conditions in the credit and capital markets. these securities/issuers could be subject to review for possible downgrade. any downgrade in these credit ratings may result in an additional decline in the estimated fair value of our auction rate securities. changes in the various assumptions used to value these securities and any increase in the markets perceived risk associated with such investments may also result in a decline in estimated fair value. if current market conditions deteriorate, or the anticipated recovery in market values does not occur, we may be required to record additional unrealized losses in other comprehensive income (loss) or other-than-temporary impairment charges to earnings in future quarters. we intend, and have the ability, to hold these investments until the market recovers. we do not believe that the lack of liquidity relating to our portfolio investments will impact our ability to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures or other operating requirements. see note 9 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8; management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, liquidity and capital resources, in part ii, item 7; and risk factors in part i, item 1a of this annual report on form 10-k for a description of recent market events that may affect the value and liquidity of the investments in our portfolio that we held at april 30, 2010. lease commitments as of april 30, 2010, one of our four lease arrangements with bnpplc is based on a floating interest rate. the minimum lease payments will vary based on libor plus a spread. all of our leases have an initial term of five years, and we have the option to renew these leases for two consecutive five-year periods upon approval by bnpplc. a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rate from the level at april 30, 2010 would increase our lease payments on this one floating lease arrangement under the initial five-year term by an immaterial amount. we do not currently hedge against market interest rate increases. convertible notes in june 2008, we issued $1.265 billion principal amount of 1.75% notes due 2013, of which $1.017 billion was allocated to debt and $0.248 billion was allocated to equity. holders may convert the notes prior to maturity upon the occurrence of certain circumstances, including, but not limited to: during the five business day period after any five consecutive trading day period in which the trading price of the notes for each day in this five consecutive trading day period was less than 98% of an amount equal to (i) the last reported sale price of our common stock multiplied by (ii) the conversion rate on such day; during any calendar quarter if the last reported sale price of our common stock for 20 or more trading days in a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter exceeds 130% of the applicable conversion price in effect for the notes on the last trading day of such immediately preceding calendar quarter; or upon the occurrence of specified corporate transactions under the indenture for the notes. the notes are convertible into the right to receive cash in an amount up to the principal amount and shares of our common stock for the conversion value in excess of the principal amount, if any, at an initial conversion rate of 31.4006 shares of common stock per one thousand principal amount of notes, subject to adjustment as described in the indenture governing the notes, which represents an initial conversion price of $31.85 per share. upon conversion, a holder will receive cash in an amount equal to the lesser of the conversion value and the principal amount of the notes, and any shares of our common stock for any conversion value in excess of the principal amount of the notes. concurrent with the issuance of the notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions and separately, warrant transactions, to reduce the potential dilution from the conversion of the notes and to mitigate any negative effect such conversion may have on the price of our common stock. in fiscal 2010, we terminated the hedge transaction with a counterparty to 20% of our note hedges, and because we have decided not to replace the hedge, we are subject to potential dilution on the 20% unhedged portion of our notes upon conversion if on the date of conversion the per-share market price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price of $31.85. 59 table of contents as of april 30, 2010, none of the conditions allowing the holders of the notes to convert had been met and we had not issued any shares related to the notes. based on the closing price of our common stock of $34.67 on april 30, 2010, the if-converted value of our notes exceeded their principal amount by approximately $112 million. the fair value of our notes is subject to interest rate risk, market risk and other factors due to the convertible feature. generally, the fair value of notes will increase as interest rates fall and/or our common stock price increases, and decrease as interest rates rise and/or our common stock price decreases. the interest and market value changes affect the fair value of our notes, but do not impact our financial position, cash flows, or results of operations due to the fixed nature of the debt obligations. we do not carry the notes at fair value, but present the fair value of the principal amount of our notes for disclosure purposes. as of april 30, 2010, the principal amount of our notes, which consists of the combined debt and equity components, was $1.265 billion, and the total estimated fair value of such was $1.5 billion based on the closing trading price of $120 per $100 of our notes as of that date. foreign currency exchange rate risk and foreign exchange forward contracts we hedge risks associated with foreign currency transactions to minimize the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on earnings. we utilize forward and option contracts to hedge against the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. all balance sheet hedges are marked to market through earnings every period. we also use foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge foreign currency forecasted transactions related to forecasted sales transactions. these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges under accounting guidance for derivatives and hedging. for cash flow hedges outstanding at april 30, 2010, the time-value component is recorded in earnings while all other gains or losses were included in other comprehensive income. we do not enter into foreign exchange contracts for speculative or trading purposes. in entering into forward and option foreign exchange contracts, we have assumed the risk that might arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts. we attempt to limit our exposure to credit risk by executing foreign exchange contracts with creditworthy multinational commercial banks. all contracts have a maturity of less than one year. the following table provides information about our currency forward contracts outstanding on april 30, 2010 and april 24, 2009 (in millions): april 30, 2010 april 24, 2009 notional notional local contract fair local contract fair currency amount value currency amount value currency amount (usd) (usd) amount (usd) (usd) euro 235.9 $ 313.5 $ 313.6 126.2 $ 166.9 $ 166.9 british pound sterling 49.7 76.0 75.9 46.6 68.2 68.3 canadian dollar 28.6 28.1 28.1 24.7 20.5 20.5 australian dollar 25.0 23.2 23.0 34.7 24.9 24.9 other n/a 43.6 43.6 n/a 33.5 33.5 60 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk related to fluctuations in interest rates, market prices and foreign currency exchange rates. we use certain derivative financial instruments to manage these risks. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. all financial instruments are used in accordance with management-approved policies. market interest and interest income risk interest and investment income as of april 30, 2004, we had short-term investments of $566.8 million. our investment portfolio primarily consists of highly liquid investments with original maturities at the date of purchase of greater than three months, which are classified as available-for-sale, and investment in marketable equity securities in primarily technology companies. these highly liquid investments, consisting primarily of government, municipal and corporate debt securities, are subject to interest rate and interest income risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. a hypothetical 10% increase in market interest rates from levels at april 30, 2004, would cause the fair value of these short-term investments to decline by approximately $1.1 million. because we have the ability to hold these investments until maturity we would not expect any significant decline in value of our investments caused by market interest rate changes. declines in interest rates over time will, however, reduce our interest income. we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. market price risk equity securities we are also exposed to market price risk on our equity securities included in our short-term investments, which are primarily in publicly traded companies in the volatile technology industry sector. in fiscal 2003, we recorded a non-cash, other-than-temporary write-down of $0.7 million related to the impairment of our investment in a publicly traded company we do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure from these securities and, as a result, the amount of income and cash flow that we ultimately realize from our investment in future periods may vary materially from the current fair value. a 50% adverse change in the equity price would result in an immaterial decrease in the fair value of our equity security as of april 30, 2004. the hypothetical changes and assumptions discussed above may be different from what actually occurs in the future. furthermore, such computations do not anticipate actions that may be taken by management, should the hypothetical market changes actually occur over time. as a result, the effect on actual earnings in the future may differ from those described above. foreign currency exchange rate risk and foreign exchange forward contracts we hedge risks associated with foreign currency transactions in order to minimize the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on earnings. we utilize forward and option contracts to hedge against the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. all balance sheet hedges are marked to market through earnings every period. we also use foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge foreign currency forecasted transactions related to certain sales and operating expenses. these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges under sfas no. 133. for cash flow hedges, the gains or losses were included in other comprehensive income at april 30, 2004. we do not enter into foreign exchange contracts for speculative or trading purposes. in entering into forward and option foreign exchange contracts, we have assumed the risk that might arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts. we attempt to limit our exposure to credit risk by executing foreign exchange contracts with credit worthy multinational commercial banks. all contracts have a maturity of less than one year. 50 table of contents the following table provides information about our foreign exchange forward contracts and currency options contracts outstanding on april 30, 2004 (in thousands): notional foreign contract notional currency value fair value currency buy/sell amount usd in usd forward contracts: cad sell 4,459 $ 3,252 $ 3,252 chf sell 3,371 $ 2,603 $ 2,604 gbp sell 17,598 $ 31,126 $ 31,121 eur sell 82,097 $ 97,872 $ 97,864 zar sell 19,267 $ 2,738 $ 2,737 aud buy 4,173 $ 2,990 $ 2,989 dkk buy 5,492 $ 883 $ 883 gbp buy 1,597 $ 2,822 $ 2,825 eur buy 7,065 $ 8,411 $ 8,420 option contracts: eur sell 5,000 $ 5,963 $ 6,039 gbp sell 1,250 $ 2,215 $ 2,242 the following table provides information about our foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding on april 30, 2003 (in thousands): notional foreign contract notional currency value fair value currency buy/sell amount usd in usd aud sell 10,332 $ 6,326 $ 6,325 chf sell 2,676 $ 1,962 $ 1,962 gbp sell 17,822 $ 28,282 $ 28,258 eur sell 63,494 $ 70,031 $ 70,091 cad sell 3,409 $ 2,347 $ 2,347 eur buy 5,890 $ 6,485 $ 6,501 gbp buy 1,282 $ 2,035 $ 2,032 51 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk related to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we use certain derivative financial instruments to manage these risks. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. all financial instruments are used in accordance with management-approved policies. market interest and interest income risk interest and investment income as of april 30, 2005, we had short-term investments of $976.4 million. our investment portfolio primarily consists of highly liquid investments with original maturities at the date of purchase of greater than three months, which are classified as available for sale. these highly liquid investments, consisting primarily of government, municipal, corporate debt, and auction-rate securities, are subject to interest rate and interest income risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. a hypothetical 10% increase in market interest rates from levels at april 30, 2005, would cause the fair value of these short-term investments to decline by approximately $2.7 million. because we have the ability to hold these investments until maturity, we would not expect any significant decline in value of our investments caused by market interest rate changes. declines in interest rates over time will, however, reduce our interest income. we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. foreign currency exchange rate risk and foreign exchange forward contracts we hedge risks associated with foreign currency transactions to minimize the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on earnings. we utilize forward and option contracts to hedge against the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. all balance sheet hedges are marked to market through earnings every period. we also use foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge foreign currency forecasted transactions related to certain sales and 55 table of contents operating expenses. these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges under sfas no. 133. for cash flow hedges outstanding at april 30, 2005, the gains or losses were included in other comprehensive income. we do not enter into foreign exchange contracts for speculative or trading purposes. in entering into forward and option foreign exchange contracts, we have assumed the risk that might arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts. we attempt to limit our exposure to credit risk by executing foreign exchange contracts with creditworthy multinational commercial banks. all contracts have a maturity of less than one year. the following table provides information about our foreign exchange forward contracts and currency options contracts outstanding on april 30, 2005 (in thousands): foreign notional notional currency contract value fair value currency buy/sell amount usd in usd forward contracts: cad sell 9,612 $ 7,631 $ 7,631 chf sell 3,454 $ 2,890 $ 2,890 ils sell 9,136 $ 2,092 $ 2,092 zar sell 16,405 $ 2,682 $ 2,682 eur sell 90,856 $ 117,233 $ 117,113 gbp sell 21,087 $ 40,063 $ 40,111 aud buy 9,283 $ 7,234 $ 7,233 dkk buy 5,988 $ 1,036 $ 1,036 sek buy 17,752 $ 2,502 $ 2,502 eur buy 8,759 $ 11,298 $ 11,284 gbp buy 2,357 $ 4,481 $ 4,484 option contracts: eur sell 7,000 $ 9,020 $ 9,124 gbp sell 1,500 $ 2,857 $ 2,881 the following table provides information about our foreign exchange forward contracts and currency options contracts outstanding on april 30, 2004 (in thousands): foreign notional notional currency contract value fair value currency buy/sell amount usd in usd forward contracts: cad sell 4,459 $ 3,252 $ 3,252 chf sell 3,371 $ 2,603 $ 2,604 gbp sell 17,598 $ 31,126 $ 31,121 eur sell 82,097 $ 97,872 $ 97,864 zar sell 19,267 $ 2,738 $ 2,737 aud buy 4,173 $ 2,990 $ 2,989 dkk buy 5,492 $ 883 $ 883 gbp buy 1,597 $ 2,822 $ 2,825 eur buy 7,065 $ 8,411 $ 8,420 option contracts: eur sell 5,000 $ 5,963 $ 6,039 gbp sell 1,250 $ 2,215 $ 2,242 56 table of contentsrisk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. please see page 2 of this annual report on form 10-k for additional discussion of these forward-looking statements. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. factors beyond our control could cause our quarterly results to fluctuate, which could adversely impact our common stock price. we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. many of the factors that could cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate significantly in the future are beyond our control and include, but are not limited to, the following: changes in general economic conditions and specific economic conditions in the computer, storage, and networking industries general decrease in global corporate spending on information technology leading to a decline in demand for our products a shift in federal government spending patterns the possible effects of terrorist activity and international conflicts, which could lead to business interruptions and difficulty in forecasting the level of competition in our target product markets 19 table of contents our reliance on a limited number of suppliers due to industry consolidation, which could subject us to periodic supply-and-demand, price rigidity and quality issues with our components the size, timing, and cancellation of significant orders product configuration and mix the extent to which our customers renew their service and maintenance contracts with us market acceptance of new products and product enhancements announcements, introductions, and transitions of new products by us or our competitors deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements introduced by us or our competitors changes in pricing by us in response to competitive pricing actions our ability to develop, introduce, and market new products and enhancements in a timely manner supply constraints technological changes in our target product markets the levels of expenditure on research and development and sales and marketing programs our ability to achieve targeted cost reductions excess or inadequate facilities disruptions resulting from new systems and processes as we continue to enhance and adapt our system infrastructure to accommodate future growth future accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting policies seasonality in addition, sales for any future quarter may vary and accordingly be different from what we forecast. we manufacture products based on a combination of specific order requirements and forecasts of our customer demands. products are typically shipped within one to four weeks following receipt of an order. in certain circumstances, customers may cancel or reschedule orders without penalty. product sales are also difficult to forecast because the storage and data management market is rapidly evolving and our sales cycle varies substantially from customer to customer. we derive a majority of our revenue in any given quarter from orders booked in the same quarter. bookings typically follow intra-quarter seasonality patterns weighted towards the back-end of the quarter. if we do not achieve bookings in the latter part of a quarter consistent with our quarterly financial targets, our financial results will be adversely impacted. due to all of the foregoing factors, it is possible that in one or more future quarters our results may fall below our forecasts and the expectations of public market analysts and investors. in such event, the trading price of our common stock would likely decrease. if we are unable to develop and introduce new products and respond to technological change, if our new products do not achieve market acceptance, or if we fail to manage the transition between our new and old products, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. our future growth depends upon the successful development and introduction of new hardware and software products. due to the complexity of storage subsystems and storage security appliances, and the difficulty in gauging the engineering effort required to produce new products, such products are subject to significant technical risks. however, our new products may not achieve market acceptance. additional product introductions in future periods may also impact our sales of existing products. in addition, our new products must respond to technological changes and evolving industry standards. if we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new 20 table of contents products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, or if such products do not achieve market acceptance, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. as new or enhanced products are introduced, we must successfully manage the transition from older products in order to minimize disruption in customers ordering patterns, avoid excessive levels of older product inventories, and ensure that enough supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customers demands. an increase in competition could materially and adversely affect our operating results. the storage markets are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapidly changing technology. in the storage market, our primary and nearline storage system products and our associated storage software portfolio compete primarily with storage system products and data management software from emc, hds, h-p, ibm, and sun microsystems. we also see dell, inc. as an emerging competitor in the storage marketplace, primarily due to a business partnership that has been established between dell and emc, allowing dell to resell emc storage hardware and software products. we have also historically encountered less-frequent competition from companies including engenio information technologies, inc. (formerly the storage systems group of lsi logic corp.), dot hill systems corporation, and xiotech corporation. in the secondary storage market, which includes the disk-to-disk backup, compliance and business continuity segments, our solutions compete primarily against products from emc and sun microsystems, as a result of their acquisition of storagetek technology corporation. our nearstore vtl appliances also compete directly with traditional tape backup solutions in the broader data backup/recovery space. in the content delivery market, our netcache appliances and content delivery software compete against caching appliance and content delivery software vendors including bluecoat systems (formerly cacheflow, inc.) and cisco systems. on june 22, 2006, we entered into an asset purchase agreement with blue coat systems, inc. to sell certain assets of the netcache business. see note 16 to the consolidated financials statements accompanying this annual report on form 10-k. our netcache business is also subject to indirect competition from content delivery service products such as those offered by akamai technologies. additionally, a number of new, privately held companies are currently attempting to enter the storage systems and data management software markets, the nearline and vtl storage markets, some of which may become significant competitors in the future. we believe that the principal competitive factors affecting the storage markets include product benefits such as response time, reliability, data availability, scalability, ease of use, price, multiprotocol capabilities, and global service and support. we must continue to maintain and enhance this technological advantage over our competitors. if those competitors with greater financial, marketing, service, support, technical, and other resources were able to offer products that matched or surpassed the technological capabilities of our products, these competitors would, by virtue of their greater resources, gain a competitive advantage over us that could lead to greater sales for these competitors at the expense of our own market share, which would have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. increased competition could also result in price reductions, reduced gross margins, and loss of market share, any of which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale, and support of their products. in addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties. accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. competitive pressures we face could materially and adversely affect our operating results. 21 table of contents we rely on a limited number of suppliers, and any disruption or termination of these supply arrangements could delay shipment of our products and could materially and adversely affect our operating results. we rely on a limited number of suppliers of several key components utilized in the assembly of our products. we purchase our disk drives through several suppliers. we purchase computer boards and microprocessors from a limited number of suppliers. our reliance on a limited number of suppliers involves several risks, including: a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components because we do not have long-term supply commitments supplier capacity constraints price increases timely delivery component quality component quality is particularly significant with respect to our suppliers of disk drives. in order to meet product performance requirements, we must obtain disk drives of extremely high quality and capacity. in addition, there are periodic supply-and-demand issues for disk drives, microprocessors, and semiconductor memory components, which could result in component shortages, selective supply allocations, and increased prices of such components. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain our full requirements of such components in the future or that prices of such components will not increase. in addition, problems with respect to yield and quality of such components and timeliness of deliveries could occur. disruption or termination of the supply of these components could delay shipments of our products and could materially and adversely affect our operating results. such delays could also damage relationships with current, prospective customers and suppliers. in addition, we license certain technology and software from third parties that is incorporated into our products. if we are unable to obtain or license the technology and software on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver products to our customers in a timely manner. the loss of any contract manufacturers or the failure to accurately forecast demand for our products or successfully manage our relationships with our contract manufacturers could negatively impact our ability to manufacture and sell our products. we currently rely on several contract manufacturers to manufacture most of our products. our reliance on our third-party contract manufacturers reduces our control over the manufacturing process, exposing us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, production costs, and product supply. if we should fail to effectively manage our relationships with our contract manufacturers, or if our contract manufacturers experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints, or quality control problems in their manufacturing operations, our ability to ship products to our customers could be impaired and our competitive position and reputation could be harmed. qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing volume production are expensive and time-consuming. if we are required to change contract manufacturers or assume internal manufacturing operations, we may lose revenue and damage our customer relationships. if we inaccurately forecast demand for our products, we may have excess or inadequate inventory or incur cancellation charges or penalties, which could adversely impact our operating results. as of april 30, 2006, we have no purchase commitment under these agreements. we intend to regularly introduce new products and product enhancements, which will require us to rapidly achieve volume production by coordinating with our contract manufacturers and suppliers. we may need to increase our material purchases, contract manufacturing capacity, and internal test and quality functions to meet anticipated demand. the inability of our contract manufacturers to provide us with adequate supplies of high-quality products, or the inability to obtain raw materials, could cause a delay in our ability to fulfill orders. 22 table of contents our future financial performance depends on growth in the storage, and data management markets. if these markets do not continue to grow at the rates at which we forecast growth, our operating results will be materially and adversely impacted. all of our products address the storage and data management markets. accordingly, our future financial performance will depend in large part on continued growth in the storage and data management markets and on our ability to adapt to emerging standards in these markets. we cannot assure you that the markets for storage and data management will continue to grow or that emerging standards in these markets will not adversely affect the growth of unix, windows, and the world wide web server markets upon which we depend. for example, we provide our open access data retention solutions to customers within the financial services, healthcare, pharmaceuticals, and government market segments, industries that are subject to various evolving governmental regulations with respect to data access, reliability, and permanence (such as rule 17(a)(4) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended) in the united states and in the other countries in which we operate. if our products do not meet, and continue to comply with, these evolving governmental regulations in this regard, customers in these market and geographical segments will not purchase our products, and, therefore, we will not be able to expand our product offerings in these market and geographical segments at the rates for which we have forecast. in addition, our business also depends on general economic and business conditions. a reduction in demand for storage and data management caused by weakening economic conditions and decreases in corporate spending will result in decreased revenues and lower revenue growth rates. the network storage market growth declined significantly beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2001 through fiscal 2003, causing both our revenues and operating results to decline. if the storage and data management markets grow more slowly than anticipated or if emerging standards other than those adopted by us become increasingly accepted by these markets, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. our gross margins may vary based on the configuration of our product and service solutions, and such variation may make it more difficult to forecast our earnings. we derive a significant portion of our sales from the resale of disk drives as components of our storage systems, and the resale market for hard disk drives is highly competitive and subject to intense pricing pressures. our sales of disk drives generate lower gross margin percentages than those of our storage systems. as a result, as we sell more highly configured systems with greater disk drive content, overall gross margin percentages may be negatively affected. our gross margins have been and may continue to be affected by a variety of other factors, including: demand for storage and data management products discount levels and price competition direct versus indirect and oem sales product and add-on software mix the mix of services as a percentage of revenue the mix and average selling prices of products the mix of disk content new product introductions and enhancements 23 table of contents excess inventory purchase commitments as a result of changes in demand forecasts and possible product and software defects as we transition our products the cost of components, manufacturing labor, and quality changes in service gross margins may result from various factors such as continued investments in our customer support infrastructure, changes in the mix between technical support services and professional services, as well as the timing of technical support service contract initiations and renewals. our effective tax rate may increase or fluctuate, which could increase our income tax expense and reduce our net income. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we are taxed at lower rates as compared to the united states statutory tax rate material differences between forecasted and actual tax rates as a result of a shift in the mix of pre-tax profits and losses by tax jurisdiction, our ability to use tax credits, or effective tax rates by tax jurisdiction different than our estimates changing tax laws, accounting standards, including sfas no. 123r, regulations, and interpretations in multiple tax jurisdictions in which we operate as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings an increase in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including certain stock compensation, write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of goodwill the tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws tax assessments, or any related tax interest or penalties, could significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in which the settlements take place a change in our decision to indefinitely reinvest foreign earnings the price of our common stock could decline to the extent that our financial results are materially affected by an adverse change in our effective tax rate. we have been notified of examinations in the u.s. and several foreign tax jurisdictions. the rights to some of our intellectual property ( ip ) is owned by certain of our foreign subsidiaries, and payments are made between u.s. and foreign tax jurisdictions relating to the use of this ip. recently, some other companies have had their foreign ip arrangements challenged as part of an examination. our management does not believe, based upon information currently known to us that the final resolution of any of our audits will have a material adverse effect upon our consolidated financial position and the results of operations and cash flows. if the ultimate determination of our taxes owed in any of these tax jurisdictions is for an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may incur problems with current or future acquisitions and equity investments, and these investments may not achieve our objectives. as part of our strategy, we are continuously evaluating opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that would complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets, or enhance our technical capabilities. we may engage in future acquisitions that dilute our stockholders investments and cause us to use cash, to incur debt, or to assume contingent liabilities. 24 table of contents acquisitions of companies entail numerous risks, and we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired operations and products or realize anticipated synergies, economies of scale, or other value. integration risks and issues may include, but not limited to, key personnel retention and assimilation, management distraction, technical development, and unexpected costs and liabilities, including goodwill impairment charges. in addition, we may be unable to recover strategic investments in development stage entities. any such problems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operation. from time to time, we also make equity investments for the promotion of business and strategic objectives. we have already made strategic investments in a number of storage and data management-related technology companies. equity investments may result in the loss of investment capital. the market price and valuation of our equity investments in these companies may fluctuate due to market conditions and other circumstances over which we have little or no control. to the extent that the fair value of these securities is less than our cost over an extended period of time, our results of operations and financial position could be negatively impacted. we cannot assure you that our oem relationship with ibm will generate significant revenue. in april 2005, we announced a strategic partner relationship with ibm. as part of the relationship, we entered into an original equipment manufacturing (oem) agreement that enables ibm to sell ibm branded solutions based on network appliance unified and open network attached storage (nas) and iscsi/ip san solutions, including nearstore and the netapp v-series systems, as well as associated software offerings. while this agreement is an element of our strategy to expand our reach into more customers and countries, we do not have an exclusive relationship with ibm and there is no minimum commitment for any given period of time, and therefore, we cannot assure you that this relationship will contribute any revenue in future years. in addition, we have no control over the products ibm selects to sell, their release schedule and timing of those products, nor do we control their pricing. revenues from the ibm relationship were not significant during fiscal 2006 and accounted for approximately 1.0% of our total consolidated revenue. in the event that sales through ibm were to gain significant traction, we may experience distribution channel conflicts between our direct sales force and ibm, or among our channel partners. if we fail to minimize channel conflicts, our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. in addition, since this agreement is relatively new, we do not have a history upon which to base our analysis of its future success. currently we do not, and cannot assure you that this oem relationship will generate significant revenue or that this strategic partnership will continue to be in effect for any specific period of time. if we are unable to maintain our existing relationships and develop new relationships with major strategic partners, our revenue may be impacted negatively. an element of our strategy to increase revenue is to strategically partner with major third-party software and hardware vendors that integrate our products into their products and also comarket our products with these vendors. we have significant partner relationships with database, business application and backup management companies including microsoft, oracle, sap and symantec. a number of these strategic partners are industry leaders that offer us expanded access to segments of the storage market. there is intense competition for attractive strategic partners, and even if we can establish strategic relationships with these partners, we cannot assure you that these partnerships will generate significant revenue or that the partnerships will continue to be in effect for any specific period of time. we intend to continue to establish and maintain business relationships with technology companies to accelerate the development and marketing of our storage solutions. to the extent we are unsuccessful in developing new relationships and maintaining our existing relationships, our future revenue and operating results could be impacted negatively. in addition, the loss of a strategic partner could have a material adverse effect on the progress of our new products under development with that partner. 25 table of contents we are expanding our indirect channel, we cannot assure you that we are able to maintain existing resellers, attract new resellers, and that channel conflicts will not materially adversely affect our channel relationships. in addition, we do not have exclusive relationships with our resellers and accordingly there is a risk that those resellers may give higher priority to products of other suppliers, which could materially adversely affect our operating results. we market and sell our storage solutions directly through our worldwide sales force and indirectly through channels such as value-added resellers, or vars, systems integrators, distributors, oems and strategic business partners and derive a significant portion of our revenue from these indirect channel partners. in fiscal 2006, fujitsu siemens and our two-tier distribution partners, arrow and avnet, accounted for 4.2% and 10.6%, respectively, of our consolidated revenue. however, in order for us to maintain our current revenue sources and grow our revenue as we have forecasted, we must effectively manage our relationships with these indirect channel partners. to do so, we must attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified channel partners to successfully market our products. however, because we also sell our products directly to customers through our sales force, on occasion we compete with our indirect channels for sales of our products to our end customers, competition that could result in conflicts with these indirect channel partners and make it harder for us to attract and retain these indirect channel partners. at the same time, our indirect channel partners may offer products that are competitive to ours. in addition, because our reseller partners generally offer products from several different companies, including products of our competitors, these resellers may give higher priority to the marketing, sales, and support of our competitors products than ours. if we fail to manage effectively our relationships with these indirect channel partners to minimize channel conflict and continue to evaluate and meet our indirect sales partners needs with respect to our products, we will not be able to maintain or increase our revenue as we have forecasted, which would have a materially adverse affect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. additionally, if we do not manage distribution of our products and services and support effectively, or if our resellers financial conditions or operations weaken, our revenues and gross margins could be adversely affected. risks inherent in our international operations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. we conduct business internationally. for the year ended april 30, 2006, 45.7% of our total revenues were from international customers (including u.s. exports). accordingly, our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected by a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including regulatory, political, or economic conditions in a specific country or region, trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements, government spending patterns, and acts of terrorism and international conflicts. our international sales are denominated in u.s. dollars and in foreign currencies. an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products more expensive and, therefore, potentially less competitive in foreign markets. for international sales and expenditures denominated in foreign currencies, we are subject to risks associated with currency fluctuations. we utilize forward and option contracts to hedge our foreign currency exposure associated with certain assets and liabilities as well as anticipated foreign currency cash flows. all balance sheet hedges are marked to market through earnings every quarter, while gains and losses on cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income. these hedges attempt to reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange movements. factors that could have an impact on the effectiveness of our hedging program include the accuracy of forecasts and the volatility of foreign currency markets. there can be no assurance that such hedging strategies will be successful and that currency exchange rate fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results. additional risks inherent in our international business activities generally include, among others, longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in managing international operations. such factors could materially and adversely affect our future international sales and, consequently, our operating results. we receive significant tax benefits from sales to our non-u.s. customers. these benefits are contingent upon existing tax regulations in the u.s. and in the countries in which our international operations are located. future changes in domestic or international tax regulations could adversely affect our ability to continue to realize these tax benefits. our effective tax rate could also be adversely affected by different and evolving interpretations of existing 26 table of contents law or regulations. potentially adverse tax consequences could negatively impact the operating and financial results from international operations. international operations currently benefit from a tax ruling concluded in the netherlands. although operating results have not been materially and adversely affected by seasonality in the past, because of the significant seasonal effects experienced within the industry, particularly in europe, our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected by seasonality. we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. if we fail to manage our expanding business effectively, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. we experienced growth in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004. our future operating results depend to a large extent on management ability to successfully manage expansion and growth, including but not limited to, expanding international operations, forecasting revenues, addressing new markets, controlling expenses, implementing and enhancing infrastructure, systems and processes, and managing our assets. the growth in our business requires that we invest in people, processes and systems to best optimize our revenue growth and long term profitability. however, growth in our sales or continued expansion in the scope of our operations could strain our current management, financial, manufacturing and other systems, and may require us to implement and improve those systems. if we experience any problems with any improvement or expansion of these systems, procedures or controls, or if these systems, procedures or controls are not designed, implemented or improved in a cost-effective and timely manner, our operations may be materially and adversely affected. in addition, any failure to implement, improve and expand such systems, procedures, and controls in a timely and efficient manner could harm our growth strategy and materially and adversely affect our financial condition and ability to achieve our business objectives. in addition, an unexpected decline in the growth rate of revenues without a corresponding and timely reduction in expense growth or a failure to manage other aspects of growth could materially and adversely affect our operating results. a significant percentage of our expenses are fixed, which could materially and adversely affect our net income. our expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to future sales, and a significant percentage of our expenses are fixed. as a result, if sales levels are below expectations or previously higher levels, net income will be disproportionately affected in a material and adverse manner. the market price for our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and will likely continue to do so in the future. the market price for our common stock has experienced substantial volatility in the past, and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. these factors include but are not limited to: fluctuations in our operating results fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us economic developments in the storage and data management market as a whole international conflicts and acts of terrorism a shortfall in revenues or earnings compared to securities analysts expectations changes in analysts recommendations or projections announcements of new products, applications, or product enhancements by us or our competitors 27 table of contents changes in our relationships with our suppliers, customers, and channel and strategic partners general market conditions in addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that has particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies. additionally, certain macroeconomic factors such as changes in interest rates, the market climate for the technology sector, and levels of corporate spending on information technology could also have an impact on the trading price of our stock. as a result, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future, and any broad market decline, as well as our own operating results, may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. we depend on the ability of our personnel, raw materials, equipment and products to move reasonably unimpeded around the world. our business could be materially and adversely affected as a result of a natural disaster, terrorist acts, or other catastrophic events. any political, military, world health (e.g., sars, avian flu) or other issue which hinders this movement or restricts the import or export of materials could lead to significant business disruptions. furthermore, any strike, economic failure, or other material disruption cased by fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, power shortages, telecommunications failures, break-ins, and similar events could also adversely affect our ability to conduct business. if such disruptions result in cancellations of customer orders or contribute to a general decrease in economic activity or corporate spending on information technology, or directly impact our marketing, manufacturing, financial and logistics functions, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. in addition, our headquarters are located in northern california, an area susceptible to earthquakes. if any significant disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business could be impaired. we depend on attracting and retaining qualified technical and sales personnel. if we are unable to attract and retain such personnel, our operating results could be materially and adversely impacted. our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to identify, attract, motivate, and retain qualified technical and sales personnel. because our future success is dependent on our ability to continue to enhance and introduce new products, we are particularly dependent on our ability to identify, attract, motivate, and retain qualified engineers with the requisite education, backgrounds, and industry experience. competition for qualified engineers, particularly in silicon valley, can be intense. the loss of the services of a significant number of our engineers or salespeople could be disruptive to our development efforts or business relationships and could materially and adversely affect our operating results. undetected software, hardware errors, or failures found in new products may result in loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, which could increase our costs and reduce our revenues. our products may contain undetected software, hardware errors, or failures when first introduced or as new versions are released. despite testing by us and by current and potential customers, errors may not be found in new products until after commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in loss of or delay in market acceptance, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may be subject to increased competition that could materially and adversely affect our operating results. our success depends significantly upon our proprietary technology. we rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions, and patents to protect our proprietary rights. we seek to protect our software, documentation, and other written materials under trade secret, copyright, and patent laws, which afford only limited protection. some u.s. trademarks and some u.s.-registered trademarks are registered internationally as well. we will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks as appropriate. we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and with our resellers, strategic partners, and customers. we currently have multiple u.s. and international patent applications pending and multiple u.s. patents issued. the pending applications may not be approved, and if patents are issued, such patents may be challenged. if such challenges are brought, the patents may be invalidated. we cannot assure 28 table of contents you that we will develop proprietary products or technologies that are patentable, that any issued patent will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties, or that the patents of others will not materially and adversely affect our ability to do business. litigation may be necessary to protect our proprietary technology. any such litigation may be time-consuming and costly. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the united states. we cannot assure you that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products, or design around patents issued to us or other intellectual property rights of ours. we are subject to intellectual property infringement claims. we may, from time to time, receive claims that we are infringing third parties intellectual property rights. third parties may in the future claim infringement by us with respect to current or future products, patents, trademarks, or other proprietary rights. we expect that companies in the appliance market will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. any such claims could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays, require us to redesign our products, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. our business is subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure, accounting, and tax requirements and environmental legislation that have increased both our costs and the risk of noncompliance. because our common stock is publicly traded, we are subject to certain rules and regulations of federal, state, and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. these entities, including the public company accounting oversight board, the sec, and nasdaq, have implemented new requirements and regulations and continue developing additional regulations and requirements in response to recent corporate scandals and laws enacted by congress, most notably the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. our efforts to comply with these new regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue resulting in, increased general and administrative expenses and diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. we have recently completed our evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting as required by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. although our assessment, testing, and evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of april 30, 2006, our internal controls over financial reporting were effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. if our internal controls are ineffective in future periods, our business and reputation could be harmed. we may incur additional expenses and commitment of management time in connection with further evaluations, either of which could materially increase our operating expenses and accordingly reduce our net income. the impact of option expensing under sfas no. 123r will result in lower reported earnings per share, which could negatively impact our future stock price. this could also impact our ability to use or our future practice of utilizing, broad-based employee stock plans to attract, reward, and retain employees, which could also adversely impact our operations. in addition, the option pricing models used to estimate the fair value of employee stock options are based on highly subjective inputs and assumptions. if another party asserts that the fair value of our employee stock options is misstated, securities class action litigation could be brought against us, or the market price of our common stock could decline, or both could occur. as a result, we could incur significant losses, and our operating results may be below our expectations and those of investors and stock market analysts. we also face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and upcoming requirements relating to the materials composition of many of our products. the european union ( eu ) has adopted two directives to facilitate the recycling of electrical and electronic equipment sold in the eu. one of these is the restriction on the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment 29 table of contents ( rohs ) directive. the rohs directive restricts the use of lead, mercury, and certain other substances in electrical and electronic products placed on the market in the european union after july 1, 2006. in connection with our compliance with such environmental laws and regulations, we could incur substantial costs (including excess component inventory) and be subject to disruptions to our operations and logistics. in addition, we will need to ensure that we can manufacture compliant products, and that we can be assured a supply of compliant components from suppliers. similar laws and regulations have been or may be enacted in other regions, including in the united states, china, and japan. other environmental regulations may require us to reengineer our products to utilize components that are more environmentally compatible, and such reengineering and component substitution may result in additional costs to us. although we do not anticipate any material adverse effects based on the nature of our operations and the effect of such laws, there is no assurance that such existing laws or future laws will not have a material adverse effect on our business. the u.s. government has contributed to our revenue growth and become an important customer for us. however, government demand is unpredictable, and there is no guarantee of future revenue growth from the u.s. government. the u.s. government has become an important customer for the storage market and for us. government agencies are subject to budgetary processes and expenditure constraints that could lead to delays or decreased capital expenditures in it spending on infrastructures. if the government or individual agencies within the government reduce or shift their capital spending pattern, our financial results may be harmed. we cannot assure you that revenue from the u.s. government will continue to grow in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk related to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we use certain derivative financial instruments to manage these risks. we do not use derivative financial instruments for 56 table of contents speculative or trading purposes. all financial instruments are used in accordance with management-approved policies. market interest and interest income risk interest and investment income as of april 30, 2006, we had available-for-sale investments of $1,102.8 million. our investment portfolio primarily consists of highly liquid investments with original maturities at the date of purchase of greater than three months, which are classified as available for sale. these highly liquid investments, consisting primarily of government, municipal, corporate debt, and auction-rate securities, are subject to interest rate and interest income risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. a hypothetical 10% increase in market interest rates from levels at april 30, 2006, would cause the fair value of these short-term investments to decline by approximately $3.5 million. because we have the ability to hold these investments until maturity, we would not expect any significant decline in value of our investments caused by market interest rate changes. declines in interest rates over time will, however, reduce our interest income. we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. lease commitments as of april 30, 2006, we have arrangements with bnp to lease our land for a period of 50 years to construct approximately 190,000 square feet of office space costing up to $38.5 million. after completion of construction, we will pay minimum lease payments which vary based on london interbank offered rate ( libor ) plus a spread. we expect to pay lease payments on the completed buildings from bnp on september 2007 for a term of five years. we have the option to renew the lease for two consecutive five-year periods upon approval by bnp. a hypothetical 10% increase in market interest rates from levels at april 30, 2006, would increase our total lease payments under the initial 5-year term by approximately $0.9 million. we do not currently hedge against market interest rate increases. as cash from operating cash flows are invested in a higher interest rate environment, it will offer a natural hedge against interest rate risk from our lease commitments in the event of a significant increase in market interest rate. debt obligation we have an outstanding variable rate term loan totaling $300.0 million as of april 30, 2006. under terms of these arrangements, we expect to pay interest payments at libor plus a spread. due to the short-term nature of these debt arrangements, a hypothetical 10% change in interest rates would not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows over the next two fiscal years. we do not currently use derivatives to manage interest rate risk. equity securities we have from time to time made cash investments in companies with distinctive technologies that are potentially strategically important to us. our investments in non-marketable equity securities would be negatively affected by an adverse change in equity market prices, although the impact cannot be directly quantified. such a change, or any negative change in the financial performance or prospects of the companies whose non-marketable securities we own, would harm the ability of these companies to raise additional capital and the likelihood of our being able to realize any gains or return of our investments through liquidity events such as initial public offerings, acquisitions and private sales. these types of investments involve a high degree of risk, and there can be no assurance that any company we invest in will grow or be successful. accordingly, we could lose all or part of our investment. our investments in non-marketable equity securities had a carrying amount of $11.0 million as of april 30, 2006 and $1.8 million as of april 30, 2005. if we determine that an other-than-temporary decline in fair value exists for a non-marketable equity security, we write down the investment to its fair value and record the related write-down as an investment loss in our consolidated statements of income. foreign currency exchange rate risk and foreign exchange forward contracts we hedge risks associated with foreign currency transactions to minimize the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on earnings. we utilize forward and option contracts to hedge against the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. all balance sheet hedges are marked to market through earnings every period. we also use foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge foreign currency forecasted transactions related to certain sales and operating expenses. these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges under sfas no. 133. for cash flow hedges outstanding at april 30, 2006, the gains or losses were included in other comprehensive income. 57 table of contents we do not enter into foreign exchange contracts for speculative or trading purposes. in entering into forward and option foreign exchange contracts, we have assumed the risk that might arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts. we attempt to limit our exposure to credit risk by executing foreign exchange contracts with creditworthy multinational commercial banks. all contracts have a maturity of less than one year. the following table provides information about our foreign exchange forward contracts and currency options contracts outstanding on april 30, 2006 (in thousands): notional notional foreign contract value fair value currency buy/sell currency amount usd in usd forward contracts: cad sell 13,493 $ 12,072 $ 12,065 chf sell 2,984 $ 2,414 $ 2,414 ils sell 15,151 $ 3,374 $ 3,373 zar sell 26,673 $ 4,403 $ 4,403 eur sell 145,804 $ 183,852 $ 184,716 gbp sell 45,292 $ 82,258 $ 82,614 aud buy 13,866 $ 10,509 $ 10,508 jpy buy 236,841 $ 2,092 $ 2,093 dkk buy 10,864 $ 1,841 $ 1,841 nok buy 6,139 $ 999 $ 999 sek buy 15,707 $ 2,141 $ 2,142 eur buy 12,092 $ 15,156 $ 15,322 gbp buy 2,851 $ 5,129 $ 5,201 option contracts: eur sell 10,000 $ 12,655 $ 12,778 gbp sell 2,500 $ 4,559 $ 4,598 the following table provides information about our foreign exchange forward contracts and currency options contracts outstanding on april 30, 2005 (in thousands): notional notional foreign contract value fair value currency buy/sell currency amount usd in usd forward contracts: cad sell 9,612 $ 7,631 $ 7,631 chf sell 3,454 $ 2,890 $ 2,890 ils sell 9,136 $ 2,092 $ 2,092 zar sell 16,405 $ 2,682 $ 2,682 eur sell 90,856 $ 117,233 $ 117,113 gbp sell 21,087 $ 40,063 $ 40,111 aud buy 9,283 $ 7,234 $ 7,233 dkk buy 5,988 $ 1,036 $ 1,036 sek buy 17,752 $ 2,502 $ 2,502 eur buy 8,759 $ 11,298 $ 11,284 gbp buy 2,357 $ 4,481 $ 4,484 option contracts: eur sell 7,000 $ 9,020 $ 9,124 gbp sell 1,500 $ 2,857 $ 2,881 58 table of contentsrisk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. please see page 2 of this annual report on form 10-k for additional discussion of these forward-looking statements. if any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. factors beyond our control could cause our quarterly results to fluctuate, which could adversely impact our common stock price. we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. many of the factors that could cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate significantly in the future are beyond our control and include, but are not limited to, the following: changes in general economic conditions and specific economic conditions in the computer, storage, and networking industries general decrease in global corporate spending on information technology leading to a decline in demand for our products a shift in federal government spending patterns the possible effects of terrorist activity and international conflicts, which could lead to business interruptions and difficulty in forecasting the level of competition in our target product markets our reliance on a limited number of suppliers due to industry consolidation, which could subject us to periodic supply-and-demand, price rigidity, and quality issues with our components the size, timing, and cancellation of significant orders product configuration and mix the extent to which our customers renew their service and maintenance contracts with us market acceptance of new products and product enhancements announcements, introductions, and transitions of new products by us or our competitors 20 table of contents deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements introduced by us or our competitors changes in pricing by us in response to competitive pricing actions our ability to develop, introduce, and market new products and enhancements in a timely manner supply constraints technological changes in our target product markets the levels of expenditure on research and development and sales and marketing programs our ability to achieve targeted cost reductions excess or inadequate facilities disruptions resulting from new systems and processes as we continue to enhance and adapt our system infrastructure to accommodate future growth future accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting policies seasonality in addition, sales for any future quarter may vary and accordingly be different from what we forecast. we manufacture products based on a combination of specific order requirements and forecasts of our customer demands. products are typically shipped within one to four weeks following receipt of an order. in certain circumstances, customers may cancel or reschedule orders without penalty. product sales are also difficult to forecast because the storage and data management market is rapidly evolving and our sales cycle varies substantially from customer to customer. we derive a majority of our revenue in any given quarter from orders booked in the same quarter. bookings typically follow intraquarter seasonality patterns weighted toward the back end of the quarter. if we do not achieve bookings in the latter part of a quarter consistent with our quarterly financial targets, our financial results will be adversely impacted. if revenues do not meet our expectations, our operating profit may be negatively impacted because portions of our expenses are fixed and difficult to reduce in a short period of time. if our revenues are lower than expected, our fixed expenses could adversely affect our net income and cash flow until revenues increase or until such fixed expenses are reduced to a level commensurate with revenues. for example, due to macroeconomic conditions and an it spending slowdown in the u.s., our fourth quarter fiscal 2007 bookings were back-end loaded and finished lower than our forecast. in addition, in the last two weeks of the fourth quarter in fiscal 2007, we experienced a shift in the mix of our bookings towards more deferred elements. as a result, we did not build our normal levels of non-deferred backlog at the end of the fourth quarter, which will impact the first quarter of fiscal 2008. without the benefit of normal backlog, we do not expect our usual level of growth in first quarter revenue, and as a result, our expense levels as a percentage of our revenue will be above our targeted business model. given the lack of growth in our non-deferred backlog, we lowered our forecasts for the first quarter of fiscal 2008 in revenues, operating margins and earnings. due to all of the foregoing factors, it is possible that in one or more future quarters our results may fall below our forecasts and the expectations of public market analysts and investors. in such event, the trading price of our common stock would likely decrease. the marketplace for our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and will likely continue to do so in the future. the market price for our common stock has experienced substantial volatility in the past, and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. these factors include but are not limited to: fluctuations in our operating results variations between our operating results and either the guidance we have furnished to the public or the published expectations of securities analysts 21 table of contents fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us changes in analysts recommendations or projections inquiries by the sec, nasdaq, law enforcement, or other regulatory bodies economic developments in the storage and data management market as a whole international conflicts and acts of terrorism announcements of new products, applications, or product enhancements by us or our competitors changes in our relationships with our suppliers, customers, and channel and strategic partners general market conditions in addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that has particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies. additionally, certain macroeconomic factors such as changes in interest rates, the market climate for the technology sector, and levels of corporate spending on information technology could also have an impact on the trading price of our stock. as a result, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future, and any broad market decline, as well as our own operating results, may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. macroeconomic conditions and it spending slowdown in the u.s as well as variations in our expected operating performance may continue to cause volatility in our stock price. we are unable to predict changes in general economic conditions and when global it spending rates will be affected. furthermore, if there are future reductions in either domestic or international it spending rates, or if it spending rates do not increase, our revenues, operating results and stock price may continue to be adversely affected. our forecasts of our revenues and earnings outlook may be inaccurate and could materially and adversely impact our business or our planned results of operations. our revenues are difficult to forecast. we use a pipeline system, a common industry practice, to forecast revenues and trends in our business. sales personnel monitor the status of potential business and estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision, the dollar amount of the sale and the products or services to be sold. these estimates are aggregated periodically to generate a sales pipeline. our pipeline estimates may prove to be unreliable either in a particular quarter or over a longer period of time, in part because the conversion rate of the pipeline into contracts varies from customer to customer, can be difficult to estimate and requires management judgment. small deviations from our forecasted conversion rate may result in inaccurate plans and budgets and materially adversely impact our business or our planned results of operations. in particular, a slowdown in it spending or weak economic conditions or evolving technology generally can reduce the conversion rate in a particular quarter as our customers purchasing decisions are delayed, reduced in amount or cancelled. moreover, even after contracts have been executed, extensive analysis is required before the timing of revenue recognition can be reliably determined; this delay reflects both the complexity of the revenue recognition rules applicable to software and the effect that the multiple element arrangements and other terms and conditions can have when these rules are applied. if we are unable to develop and introduce new products and respond to technological change, if our new products do not achieve market acceptance, or if we fail to manage the transition between our new and old products, or if we cannot provide the level of service and support for our new products, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. our future growth depends upon the successful development and introduction of new hardware and software products. due to the complexity of storage subsystems and storage security appliances, and the difficulty in gauging the engineering effort required to produce new products, such products are subject to significant technical risks. however, our new products may not achieve market acceptance. additional product introductions in future periods may also impact our sales of existing products. in addition, our new products must respond to technological changes and evolving industry standards. if we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new 22 table of contents products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, or if such products do not achieve market acceptance, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. as new or enhanced products are introduced, we must successfully manage the transition from older products in order to minimize disruption in customers ordering patterns, avoid excessive levels of older product inventories, and ensure that enough supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customers demands. as we enter into new or emerging markets, we will likely increase demands on our service and support operations and may be exposed to additional competition. we may not be able to provide products, service, and support to effectively compete for these market opportunities. further, provision of greater levels of services from us may result in a delay in the timing of revenue recognition. an increase in competition could materially and adversely affect our operating results. the storage markets are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapidly changing technology. in the storage market, our primary and nearline storage system products and our associated storage software portfolio compete primarily with storage system products and data management software from emc, hds, hp, ibm, and sun/storagetek. we also see dell, inc. as a competitor in the storage marketplace, primarily through its business partnership with emc, allowing dell to resell emc storage hardware and software products. we have also historically encountered less-frequent competition from companies including lsi logic. in the secondary storage market, which includes the disk-to-disk backup, compliance, and business continuity segments, our solutions compete primarily against products from emc and sun/storagetek. our nearstore vtl appliances also compete with traditional tape backup solutions in the broader data backup/recovery space. additionally, a number of small, new, privately-held companies are currently attempting to enter the storage systems and data management software markets and the near-line and nearstore vtl storage markets, some of which may become significant competitors in the future. there has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years. we expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. we believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. in addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties. accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. competitive pressures we face could materially and adversely affect our operating results. we rely on a limited number of suppliers, and any disruption or termination of these supply arrangements could delay shipment of our products and could materially and adversely affect our operating results. we rely on a limited number of suppliers for components such as disk drives, computer boards, and microprocessors utilized in the assembly of our products. in recent years, rapid industry consolidation has led to fewer component suppliers, which could subject us to periodic supply constraints and price rigidity. our reliance on a limited number of suppliers involves several risks, including: a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components because we do not have long-term supply commitments supplier capacity constraints price increases timely delivery component quality component quality is particularly significant with respect to our suppliers of disk drives. in order to meet product performance requirements, we must obtain disk drives of extremely high quality and capacity. in addition, there are periodic supply-and-demand issues for disk drives, microprocessors, and semiconductor memory 23 table of contents components, which could result in component shortages, selective supply allocations, and increased prices of such components. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain our full requirements of such components in the future or that prices of such components will not increase. in addition, problems with respect to yield and quality of such components and timeliness of deliveries could occur. disruption or termination of the supply of these components could delay shipments of our products and could materially and adversely affect our operating results. such delays could also damage relationships with current and prospective customers and suppliers. in addition, we license certain technology and software from third parties that are incorporated into our products. if we are unable to obtain or license the technology and software on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver products to our customers in a timely manner. the loss of any contract manufacturers or the failure to accurately forecast demand for our products or successfully manage our relationships with our contract manufacturers could negatively impact our ability to manufacture and sell our products. we currently rely on several contract manufacturers to manufacture most of our products. our reliance on our third-party contract manufacturers reduces our control over the manufacturing process, exposing us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, production costs, and product supply. if we should fail to effectively manage our relationships with our contract manufacturers, or if our contract manufacturers experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints, or quality control problems in their manufacturing operations, our ability to ship products to our customers could be impaired and our competitive position and reputation could be harmed. qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing volume production are expensive and time-consuming. if we are required to change contract manufacturers or assume internal manufacturing operations, we may lose revenue and damage our customer relationships. if we inaccurately forecast demand for our products, we may have excess or inadequate inventory or incur cancellation charges or penalties, which could adversely impact our operating results. as of april 27, 2007, we have no purchase commitment under these agreements. we intend to regularly introduce new products and product enhancements, which will require us to rapidly achieve volume production by coordinating with our contract manufacturers and suppliers. we may need to increase our material purchases, contract manufacturing capacity, and internal test and quality functions to meet anticipated demand. the inability of our contract manufacturers to provide us with adequate supplies of high-quality products, or the inability to obtain raw materials, could cause a delay in our ability to fulfill orders. our future financial performance depends on growth in the storage and data management markets. if these markets do not continue to grow at the rates at which we forecast growth, our operating results will be materially and adversely impacted. all of our products address the storage and data management markets. accordingly, our future financial performance will depend in large part on continued growth in the storage and data management markets and on our ability to adapt to emerging standards in these markets. we cannot assure you that the markets for storage and data management will continue to grow or that emerging standards in these markets will not adversely affect the growth of unix, windows, and the world wide web server markets upon which we depend. for example, we provide our open access data retention solutions to customers within the financial services, healthcare, pharmaceuticals, and government market segments, industries that are subject to various evolving governmental regulations with respect to data access, reliability, and permanence (such as rule 17(a)(4) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended) in the u.s. and in the other countries in which we operate. if our products do not meet, and continue to comply with, these evolving governmental regulations in this regard, customers in these market and geographical segments will not purchase our products, and therefore we will not be able to expand our product offerings in these market and geographical segments at the rates for which we have forecast. 24 table of contents we are also exposed to unfavorable economic and market conditions and the uncertain geopolitical environment. our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions and the uncertain geopolitical environment. a reduction in demand for storage and data management caused by weakening economic conditions and decreases in corporate spending will result in decreased revenues and lower revenue growth rates. the network storage market growth declined significantly beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2001 through fiscal 2003, causing both our revenues and operating results to decline. if the storage and data management markets grow more slowly than anticipated, or if emerging standards other than those adopted by us become increasingly accepted by these markets, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. recent turmoil in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world, including terrorist activities and military actions, particularly the continuing tension in and surrounding iraq, and changes in energy costs may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions. if the economic and market conditions in the u.s. and globally do not improve, or if they deteriorate, we may experience material impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition. our gross margins may vary based on the configuration of our product and service solutions, and such variation may make it more difficult to forecast our earnings. we derive a significant portion of our sales from the resale of disk drives as components of our storage systems, and the resale market for hard disk drives is highly competitive and subject to intense pricing pressures. our sales of disk drives generate lower gross margin percentages than those of our storage systems. as a result, as we sell more highly configured systems with greater disk drive content, overall gross margin percentages may be negatively affected. our gross margins have been and may continue to be affected by a variety of other factors, including: demand for storage and data management products discount levels and price competition direct versus indirect and oem sales product and add-on software mix the mix of services as a percentage of revenue the mix and average selling prices of products the mix of disk content new product introductions and enhancements excess inventory purchase commitments as a result of changes in demand forecasts and possible product and software defects as we transition our products the cost of components, manufacturing labor, and quality changes in service gross margins may result from various factors such as continued investments in our customer support infrastructure and changes in the mix between technical support services and professional services, as well as the timing of technical support service contract initiations and renewals. our effective tax rate may increase or fluctuate, which could increase our income tax expense and reduce our net income. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we are taxed at lower rates as compared to the u.s. statutory tax rate 25 table of contents material differences between forecasted and actual tax rates as a result of a shift in the mix of pretax profits and losses by tax jurisdiction, our ability to use tax credits, or effective tax rates by tax jurisdiction different than our estimates changing tax laws, accounting standards, including sfas no. 123r and fin no. 48, regulations, and interpretations in multiple tax jurisdictions in which we operate, as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings an increase in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including certain stock-based compensation expense, write-offs of acquired in-process research and development, and impairment of goodwill the tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws tax assessments, or any related tax interest or penalties, could significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in which the settlements take place a change in our decision to indefinitely reinvest foreign earnings the price of our common stock could decline to the extent that our financial results are materially affected by an adverse change in our effective tax rate. we are currently undergoing federal income tax audits in the u.s. and several foreign tax jurisdictions. the rights to some of our intellectual property ( ip ) are owned by certain of our foreign subsidiaries, and payments are made between u.s. and foreign tax jurisdictions relating to the use of this ip. recently, some other companies have had their foreign ip arrangements challenged as part of an examination. our management does not believe, based upon information currently known to us that the final resolution of any of our audits will have a material adverse effect upon our consolidated financial position and the results of operations and cash flows. if the ultimate determination of our taxes owed in any of these tax jurisdictions is for an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may face increased risks and uncertainties related to our current or future acquisitions and nonmarketable securities, and these investments may not achieve our objectives. as part of our strategy, we are continuously evaluating opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that would complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets, or enhance our technical capabilities. we may engage in future acquisitions that dilute our stockholders investments and cause us to use cash, to incur debt, or to assume contingent liabilities. acquisitions of companies entail numerous risks, and we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired operations and products or to realize anticipated synergies, economies of scale, or other value. integration risks and issues may include, but are not limited to, key personnel retention and assimilation, management distraction, technical development, and unexpected costs and liabilities, including goodwill impairment charges. in addition, we may be unable to recover strategic investments in development stage entities. any such problems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operation. on occasion, we invest in nonmarketable securities of private companies. as of april 27, 2007, the carrying value of our investments in nonmarketable securities totaled $8.9 million. investments in nonmarketable securities are inherently risky, and some of these companies are likely to fail. their success (or lack thereof) is dependent on these companies product development, market acceptance, operational efficiency and other key business success factors. in addition, depending on these companies future prospects, they may not be able to raise additional funds when needed or they may receive lower valuations, with less favorable investment terms than in previous financings, and our investments in them would likely become impaired. in fiscal 2007, we recorded a $2.1 million write-down relating to our investments in two privately-held companies. 26 table of contents we cannot assure you that our oem relationship with ibm will generate significant revenue. in april 2005, we announced a strategic partner relationship with ibm. as part of the relationship, we entered into an original equipment manufacturing ( oem ) agreement that enables ibm to sell ibm branded solutions based on network appliance unified solutions, including nearstore and the netapp v-series systems, as well as associated software offerings. while this agreement is an element of our strategy to expand our reach into more customers and countries, we do not have an exclusive relationship with ibm, and there is no minimum commitment for any given period of time; therefore we cannot assure you that this relationship will contribute any revenue in future years. in addition, we have no control over the products that ibm selects to sell, or their release schedule and timing of those products; nor do we control their pricing. in the event that sales through ibm will increase, we may experience distribution channel conflicts between our direct sales force and ibm, or among our channel partners. if we fail to minimize channel conflicts, our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. in addition, since this agreement is relatively new, we do not have a history upon which to base our analysis of its future success. currently we do not and cannot assure you that this oem relationship will generate significant revenue or that this strategic partnership will continue to be in effect for any specific period of time. if we are unable to maintain our existing relationships and develop new relationships with major strategic partners, our revenue may be impacted negatively. an element of our strategy to increase revenue is to strategically partner with major third-party software and hardware vendors that integrate our products into their products and also comarket our products with these vendors. we have significant partner relationships with database, business application, and backup management companies, including microsoft, oracle, sap, and symantec. a number of these strategic partners are industry leaders that offer us expanded access to segments of the storage market. there is intense competition for attractive strategic partners, and even if we can establish strategic relationships with these partners, we cannot assure you that these partnerships will generate significant revenue or that the partnerships will continue to be in effect for any specific period of time. we intend to continue to establish and maintain business relationships with technology companies to accelerate the development and marketing of our storage solutions. to the extent that we are unsuccessful in developing new relationships and maintaining our existing relationships, our future revenue and operating results could be impacted negatively. in addition, the loss of a strategic partner could have a material adverse effect on the progress of our new products under development with that partner. we cannot assure you that we are able to maintain existing resellers and attract new resellers, and that channel conflicts will not materially adversely affect our channel relationships. in addition, we do not have exclusive relationships with our resellers and accordingly there is a risk that those resellers may give higher priority to products of other suppliers, which could materially adversely affect our operating results. we market and sell our storage solutions directly through our worldwide sales force and indirectly through channels such as value-added resellers ( var ), systems integrators, distributors, oems, and strategic business partners, and we derive a significant portion of our revenue from these indirect channel partners. in fiscal 2007, our indirect channels accounted for 59.6% of our consolidated revenues. however, in order for us to maintain our current revenue sources and grow our revenue as we have forecasted, we must effectively manage our relationships with these indirect channel partners. to do so, we must attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified channel partners to successfully market our products. however, because we also sell our products directly to customers through our sales force, on occasion we compete with our indirect channels for sales of our products to our end customers, competition that could result in conflicts with these indirect channel partners and make it harder for us to attract and retain these indirect channel partners. at the same time, our indirect channel partners may offer products that are competitive to ours. in addition, because our reseller partners generally offer products from several different companies, including products of our competitors, these resellers may give higher priority to the marketing, sales, and support of our competitors products than ours. if we fail to effectively manage our relationships with these indirect channel partners to minimize channel conflict and continue to evaluate and meet our indirect sales partners needs with respect to our products, we will not be able to maintain 27 table of contents or increase our revenue as we have forecasted, which would have a materially adverse affect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. additionally, if we do not manage distribution of our products and services and support effectively, or if our resellers financial conditions or operations weaken, our revenues and gross margins could be adversely affected. risks inherent in our international operations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. we conduct business internationally. for the year ended april 27, 2007, 44.7% of our total revenues was from international customers (including u.s. exports). accordingly, our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected by a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including regulatory, political, or economic conditions in a specific country or region, trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements, government spending patterns, and acts of terrorism and international conflicts. our international sales are denominated in u.s. dollars and in foreign currencies. an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products more expensive and therefore potentially less competitive in foreign markets. conversely, lowering our price in local currency may result in lower u.s.-based revenue. for international sales and expenditures denominated in foreign currencies, we are subject to risks associated with currency fluctuations. we utilize forward and option contracts to hedge our foreign currency exposure associated with certain assets and liabilities as well as anticipated foreign currency cash flows. all balance sheet hedges are marked to market through earnings every quarter, while gains and losses on cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income until forecasted transactions occur, at which time such realized gains and losses are recognized in earnings. these hedges attempt to reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange movements. factors that could have an impact on the effectiveness of our hedging program include the accuracy of forecasts and the volatility of foreign currency markets. there can be no assurance that such hedging strategies will be successful and that currency exchange rate fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results. additional risks inherent in our international business activities generally include, among others, longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in managing international operations. such factors could materially and adversely affect our future international sales and consequently our operating results. we receive significant tax benefits from sales to our non-u.s. customers. these benefits are contingent upon existing tax regulations in the u.s. and in the countries in which our international operations are located. future changes in domestic or international tax regulations could adversely affect our ability to continue to realize these tax benefits. our effective tax rate could also be adversely affected by different and evolving interpretations of existing law or regulations. potentially adverse tax consequences could negatively impact the operating and financial results from international operations. international operations currently benefit from a tax ruling concluded in the netherlands. our operating results have not been significantly affected by seasonality in the past. in the future, as we expand our presence internationally, we may experience more seasonality in the sale of our products. for example, sales to european customers tend to be weaker in the summer months, which is our first fiscal quarter. we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. if we fail to manage our expanding business effectively, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. our future operating results depend to a large extent on management ability to successfully manage expansion and growth, including but not limited to expanding international operations, forecasting revenues, addressing new markets, controlling expenses, implementing and enhancing infrastructure, investing in people, facilities and capital equipment, and managing our assets. an unexpected decline in the growth rate of revenues without a corresponding and timely reduction in expense growth or a failure to manage other aspects of growth could materially and adversely affect our operating results. 28 table of contents in addition, continued expansion could strain our current management, financial, manufacturing, and other systems, and may require us to implement and improve those systems. if we experience any problems with any improvement or expansion of these systems, procedures, or controls, or if these systems, procedures or controls are not designed, implemented, or improved in a cost-effective and timely manner, our operations may be materially and adversely affected. in addition, any failure to implement, improve, and expand such systems, procedures, and controls in a timely and efficient manner could harm our growth strategy and materially and adversely affect our financial condition and ability to achieve our business objectives. as we continue to grow our business, we are likely to incur costs earlier than some of the anticipated benefits, which could harm our operating results. a significant percentage of our expenses are fixed, which could materially and adversely affect our net income. we are increasing our investment in engineering, sales, service support, and other functions to grow our business. we are likely to recognize the costs associated with these increased investments earlier than some of the anticipated benefits and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect, which could harm our business. our expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to future sales, and a significant percentage of our expenses are fixed. as a result, if sales levels are below expectations or previously higher levels, net income will be disproportionately affected in a material and adverse manner. we depend on the ability of our personnel, raw materials, equipment, and products to move reasonably unimpeded around the world. our business could be materially and adversely affected as a result of a natural disaster, terrorist acts, or other catastrophic events. any political, military, world health (e.g., sars, avian flu), or other issue that hinders this movement or restricts the import or export of materials could lead to significant business disruptions. furthermore, any strike, economic failure, or other material disruption caused by fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, power shortages, telecommunications failures, break-ins, and similar events could also adversely affect our ability to conduct business. if such disruptions result in cancellations of customer orders or contribute to a general decrease in economic activity or corporate spending on information technology, or directly impact our marketing, manufacturing, financial, and logistics functions, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. in addition, our headquarters are located in northern california, an area susceptible to earthquakes. if any significant disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business could be impaired. we depend on attracting and retaining qualified technical and sales personnel. if we are unable to attract and retain such personnel, our operating results could be materially and adversely impacted. our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to identify, attract, motivate, and retain qualified technical and sales personnel. because our future success is dependent on our ability to continue to enhance and introduce new products, we are particularly dependent on our ability to identify, attract, motivate, and retain qualified engineers with the requisite education, background, and industry experience. competition for qualified engineers, particularly in silicon valley, can be intense. the loss of the services of a significant number of our engineers or salespeople could be disruptive to our development efforts or business relationships and could materially and adversely affect our operating results. undetected software errors, hardware errors, or failures found in new products may result in loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, which could increase our costs and reduce our revenues. product quality problems could lead to reduced revenue, gross margins, and net income. our products may contain undetected software errors, hardware errors, or failures when first introduced or as new versions are released. despite testing by us and by current and potential customers, errors may not be found in 29 table of contents new products until after commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in loss of or delay in market acceptance, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. if we fail to remedy a product defect, we may experience a failure of a product line, temporary or permanent withdrawal from a product or market, damage to our reputation, inventory costs, or product reengineering expenses, any of which could have a material impact on our revenue, margins, and net income. in addition, we may be subject to losses that may result or are alleged to result from defects in our products, which could subject us to claims for damages, including consequential damages. based on our historical experience, we believe that the risk of exposure to product liability claims is currently low. however, should we experience increased exposure to product liability claims, our business could be adversely impacted. we are exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims and protection of intellectual property rights, which could adversely affect our operating results. we are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business. litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations. moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. an unfavorable resolution of a particular lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may be subject to increased competition that could materially and adversely affect our operating results. our success depends significantly upon our proprietary technology. we rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions, and patents to protect our proprietary rights. we seek to protect our software, documentation, and other written materials under trade secret, copyright, and patent laws, which afford only limited protection. some u.s. trademarks and some u.s.-registered trademarks are registered internationally as well. we will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks as appropriate. we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and with our resellers, strategic partners, and customers. we currently have multiple u.s. and international patent applications pending and multiple u.s. patents issued. the pending applications may not be approved, and if patents are issued, such patents may be challenged. if such challenges are brought, the patents may be invalidated. we cannot assure you that we will develop proprietary products or technologies that are patentable, that any issued patent will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties, or that the patents of others will not materially and adversely affect our ability to do business. litigation may be necessary to protect our proprietary technology. any such litigation may be time consuming and costly. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the u.s.. we cannot assure you that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products, or design around patents issued to us or other intellectual property rights of ours. we are subject to intellectual property infringement claims. we may, from time to time, receive claims that we are infringing third parties intellectual property rights. third parties may in the future claim infringement by us with respect to current or future products, patents, trademarks, or other proprietary rights. we expect that companies in the appliance market will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. any such claims could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays, require us to redesign our products, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. 30 table of contents our business is subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure, accounting, and tax requirements that have increased both our costs and the risk of noncompliance. because our common stock is publicly traded, we are subject to certain rules and regulations of federal, state, and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. these entities, including the public company accounting oversight board, the sec, and nasdaq, have implemented new requirements and regulations and continue developing additional regulations and requirements in response to recent corporate scandals and laws enacted by congress, most notably the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. our efforts to comply with these new regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue resulting in, increased general and administrative expenses and diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. we have recently completed our evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting as required by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. although our assessment, testing, and evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of april 27, 2007, our internal controls over financial reporting were effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. if our internal controls are ineffective in future periods, our business and reputation could be harmed. we may incur additional expenses and commitment of management time in connection with further evaluations, either of which could materially increase our operating expenses and accordingly reduce our net income. because new and modified laws, regulations, and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. this evolution may result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and additional costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to our disclosure and governance practices. our ability to forecast earnings is limited by the impact of new accounting requirements such as sfas no. 123r. the financial accounting standards board requires companies to recognize the fair value of stock options and other share-based payment compensation to employees as compensation expense in the statement of income. option pricing models require the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the expected stock price volatility, expected life, and forfeiture rate. we have chosen to base our estimate of future volatility using the implied volatility of traded options to purchase the company common stock as permitted by sab no. 107. as of april 29, 2006, the contractual life of our stock options was shortened to seven years from ten years for options issued on or after this date, and to the extent that the shorter life changes employees exercise behavior, it may change the expected term of an option going forward. sfas no. 123r requires us to use estimated forfeitures, and therefore the adoption of sfas no. 123r could have a material impact on the timing of and, based on the accuracy of estimates of future actual forfeitures, the amount of stock-based compensation expense. given the unpredictable nature of the black scholes variables and other management assumptions such as number of options to be granted, underlying strike price, and associated income tax impacts, it is very difficult to estimate stock-based compensation expense for any given quarter or year. any changes in these highly subjective assumptions may significantly impact our ability to make accurate forecasts of future earnings and volatility of our stock price. if another party asserts that the fair value of our employee stock options is misstated, securities class action litigation could be brought against us, or the market price of our common stock could decline, or both could occur. as a result, we could incur significant losses, and our operating results may be below our expectations and those of investors and stock market analysts. the u.s. government has contributed to our revenue growth and has become an important customer for us. the u.s. government has become an important customer for the storage market and for us; however, government demand is unpredictable, and there is no guarantee of future revenue growth from the u.s. government. government agencies are subject to budgetary processes and expenditure constraints that could lead to delays or decreased capital expenditures in it spending on infrastructures. if the government or individual agencies within the government reduce or shift their capital spending pattern, our financial results may be harmed. we cannot assure you that revenue from the u.s. government will continue to grow in the future. 31 table of contents the general services administration ( gsa ) is currently auditing our records under the schedule contracts it had with us to verify our compliance with various contract provisions. if the audit determines that we did not comply with such provisions, we may be required to pay the gsa a potential settlement. the exact date for completion of the audit and the subsequent negotiation process is unknown and may not be concluded for some time. our management does not believe, based upon information currently known to us that the final resolution of our audit will have a material adverse effect upon our consolidated financial position and the results of operations and cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk related to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we use certain derivative financial instruments to manage these risks. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. all financial instruments are used in accordance with management-approved policies. 57 table of contents market risk and market interest risk investment and interest income as of april 27, 2007, we had available-for-sale investments of $935.7 million. our investment portfolio primarily consists of highly liquid investments with original maturities at the date of purchase of greater than three months, which are classified as available for sale. these investments, consisting primarily of corporate bonds, corporate securities, government, municipal debt securities, and auction-rate securities, are subject to interest rate and interest income risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates from levels at april 27, 2007, would cause the fair value of these available-for-sale investments to decline by approximately $4.1 million. because we have the ability to hold these investments until maturity, we would not expect any significant decline in value of our investments caused by market interest rate changes. declines in interest rates over time will, however, reduce our interest income. we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. our investment policy is to limit the amount of credit exposure through diversification and investment in highly rated securities. we further mitigate concentrations of credit risk in our investments by limiting our investments in the debt securities of a single issuer and by diversifying risk across geographies and type of issuer. we have not experienced any material losses on our available-for-sale investments. our investment portfolio also includes common stock holdings in blue coat (see note 16 of the consolidated financial statements). we are exposed to fluctuations in the market price of our investment in this company. at the same time, we are precluded from selling these shares until september 2007. as a result of these factors, the amount of income and cash flow that we ultimately realize from this investment may vary materially from the current unrealized amount. a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in the fair market value from fair market value at april 27, 2007 would cause the fair value of this investment to decrease by approximately $1.3 million. lease commitments as of april 27, 2007, we have two arrangements with bnp to lease our land for a period of 50 years to construct approximately 380,000 square feet of office space and a parking structure costing up to $103.5 million. after completion of construction, we will pay minimum lease payments, which vary based on london interbank offered rate ( libor ) plus a spread. we expect to pay lease payments on the first lease in october 2007 for a term of five years, and the second lease in september 2008 for a term of five years. we have the option to renew both leases for two consecutive five-year periods upon approval by bnp. a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates from levels at april 27, 2007 would increase our total lease payments under the initial five-year term by approximately $2.8 million. we do not currently hedge against market interest rate increases. as cash from operating cash flows is invested in a higher interest rate environment, it will offer a natural hedge against interest rate risk from our lease commitments in the event of a significant increase in market interest rate. debt obligation we have an outstanding variable rate term loan totaling $85.1 million as of april 27, 2007. under terms of these arrangements, we expect to pay interest payments at libor plus a spread. a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates from levels at april 27, 2007 would increase our total interest payments by approximately $0.4 million. we do not currently use derivatives to manage interest rate risk. non-marketable securities we have from time to time made cash investments in companies with distinctive technologies that are potentially strategically important to us. our investments in nonmarketable securities would be negatively affected by an adverse change in equity market prices, although the impact cannot be directly quantified. such a change, or any negative change in the financial performance or prospects of the companies whose nonmarketable securities we own, would harm the ability of these companies to raise additional capital and the likelihood of our being able to realize any gains or return of our investments through liquidity events such as initial public offerings, acquisitions, and private sales. these types of investments involve a high degree of risk, and there can be no assurance that any company we invest in will grow or be successful. we do not currently engage in any hedging activities to reduce or eliminate equity price risk with respect to such nonmarketable investment. accordingly, we could lose all or part of this investment if there is an adverse change in the market price of the company we invest in. our investments in nonmarketable securities had a carrying amount of $8.9 million as of april 27, 2007 and $11.0 million as of april 28, 2006. if we determine that an other-than-temporary decline in fair value exists for a nonmarketable equity security, we write down the investment to its fair value and record the related write-down as an investment loss in our consolidated statements of income. in fiscal 2007, we recorded a noncash, 58 table of contents other-than-temporary write-down of $2.1 million related to impairment of our investment in two privately-held companies. foreign currency exchange rate risk and foreign exchange forward contracts we hedge risks associated with foreign currency transactions to minimize the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on earnings. we utilize forward and option contracts to hedge against the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. all balance sheet hedges are marked to market through earnings every period. we also use foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge foreign currency forecasted transactions related to certain sales and operating expenses. these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges under sfas no. 133. for cash flow hedges outstanding at april 27, 2007, the gains or losses were included in other comprehensive income. we do not enter into foreign exchange contracts for speculative or trading purposes. in entering into forward and option foreign exchange contracts, we have assumed the risk that might arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts. we attempt to limit our exposure to credit risk by executing foreign exchange contracts with creditworthy multinational commercial banks. all contracts have a maturity of less than one year. the following table provides information about our foreign exchange forward contracts and currency options contracts outstanding on april 27, 2007 (in thousands): notional notional foreign contract value fair value currency buy/sell currency amount usd in usd forward contracts: eur sell 156,155 $ 211,846 $ 212,838 gbp sell 33,418 $ 66,507 $ 66,698 cad sell 24,186 $ 21,670 $ 21,672 other sell n/a $ 20,190 $ 20,194 aud buy 23,654 $ 19,582 $ 19,581 other buy n/a $ 5,981 $ 5,981 option contracts: eur sell 13,000 $ 17,711 $ 17,823 gbp sell 2,000 $ 3,992 $ 4,020 the following table provides information about our foreign exchange forward contracts and currency options contracts outstanding on april 28, 2006 (in thousands): notional notional foreign contract value fair value currency buy/sell currency amount usd in usd forward contracts: eur sell 145,804 $ 183,852 $ 184,716 gbp sell 45,292 $ 82,258 $ 82,614 cad sell 13,493 $ 12,072 $ 12,065 other sell n/a $ 10,191 $ 10,190 aud buy 13,866 $ 10,509 $ 10,508 eur buy 12,092 $ 15,156 $ 15,322 gbp buy 2,851 $ 5,129 $ 5,201 other buy n/a $ 7,073 $ 7,075 option contracts: eur sell 10,000 $ 12,655 $ 12,778 gbp sell 2,500 $ 4,559 $ 4,598 59 table of contentsrisk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. please see page 2 of this annual report on form 10-k for additional discussion of these forward-looking statements. if any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. factors beyond our control could cause our quarterly results to fluctuate, which could adversely impact our common stock price. we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. many of the factors that could cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate significantly in the future are beyond our control and include, but are not limited to, the following: changes in general economic conditions and specific economic conditions in the computer, storage, and networking industries; general decrease in global corporate spending on information technology leading to a decline in demand for our products; a shift in federal government spending patterns; the possible effects of terrorist activity and international conflicts, which could lead to business interruptions and difficulty in forecasting; the level of competition in our target product markets; our reliance on a limited number of suppliers due to industry consolidation, which could subject us to periodic supply-and-demand, price rigidity, and quality issues with our components; the size, timing and cancellation of significant orders; product configuration and mix; the extent to which our customers renew their service and maintenance contracts with us; market acceptance of new products and product enhancements; announcements and introductions of, and transitions to, new products by us or our competitors; deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements introduced by us or our competitors; 12 table of contents changes in our pricing in response to competitive pricing actions; our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and enhancements in a timely manner; supply constraints; technological changes in our target product markets; the levels of expenditure on research and development and sales and marketing programs; our ability to achieve targeted cost reductions; excess or inadequate facilities; disruptions resulting from new systems and processes as we continue to enhance and adapt our system infrastructure to accommodate future growth; future accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting policies and estimates; and seasonality; for example, as the size of our business has grown, we have begun to see a seasonal decline in revenues in the first quarter of our fiscal year. sales to the u.s. government also tend to be stronger during our second fiscal quarter, concurrent with the end of the u.s. federal government fiscal year end in september. in addition, sales for any future quarter may vary and accordingly be different from what we forecast. we manufacture products based on a combination of specific order requirements and forecasts of our customer demands. products are typically shipped within one to four weeks following receipt of an order. in certain circumstances, customers may cancel or reschedule orders without penalty. product sales are also difficult to forecast because the storage and data management market is rapidly evolving, and our sales cycle varies substantially from customer to customer. we derive a majority of our revenue in any given quarter from orders booked in the same quarter. bookings typically follow intraquarter seasonality patterns weighted toward the back end of the quarter. if we do not achieve bookings in the latter part of a quarter consistent with our quarterly financial targets, our financial results will be adversely impacted. if revenues do not meet our expectations, our operating profit may be negatively impacted because portions of our expenses are fixed and difficult to reduce in a short period of time. if our revenues are lower than expected, our fixed expenses could adversely affect our net income and cash flow until revenues increase or until such fixed expenses are reduced to a level commensurate with revenues. due to all of the foregoing factors, it is possible that in one or more quarters our results may fall below our forecasts and the expectations of public market analysts and investors. in such event, the trading price of our common stock would likely decrease. we cannot assure you that our oem relationship with ibm will generate significant revenue. in april 2005, we announced a strategic partner relationship with ibm. as part of the relationship, we entered into an oem agreement that enables ibm to sell ibm branded solutions based on netapp unified solutions, including nearstore and the v-series systems, as well as associated software offerings. while this agreement is an element of our strategy to expand our reach into more customers and countries, we do not have an exclusive relationship with ibm, and there is no minimum commitment for any given period of time; therefore, we cannot assure you that this relationship will contribute any revenue in future years. in addition, we have no control over the products that ibm selects to sell, or its release schedule and timing of those products; nor do we control its pricing. in the event that sales through ibm increase, we may experience distribution channel conflicts between our direct sales force and ibm or among our channel partners. if we fail to minimize channel conflicts, our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. we cannot assure you that this oem relationship will generate significant revenue or that this strategic partnership will continue to be in effect for any specific period of time. 13 table of contents if we are unable to maintain our existing relationships and develop new relationships with major strategic partners, our revenue may be impacted negatively. an element of our strategy to increase revenue is to strategically partner with major third party software and hardware vendors that integrate our products into their products and also co-market our products with these vendors. we have significant partner relationships with database, business application, backup management and server virtualization companies, including microsoft, oracle, sap, symantec and vmware. a number of these strategic partners are industry leaders that offer us expanded access to segments of the storage market. there is intense competition for attractive strategic partners, and even if we can establish relationships with these partners, we cannot assure you that these partnerships will generate significant revenue or that the partnerships will continue to be in effect for any specific period of time. we intend to continue to establish and maintain business relationships with technology companies to accelerate the development and marketing of our storage solutions. to the extent that we are unsuccessful in developing new relationships and maintaining our existing relationships, our future revenue and operating results could be impacted negatively. in addition, the loss of a strategic partner could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and earnings. we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain existing resellers and attract new resellers and that channel conflicts will not materially adversely affect our channel relationships. in addition, we do not have exclusive relationships with our resellers and accordingly there is a risk that those resellers may give higher priority to products of other suppliers, which could materially adversely affect our operating results. we market and sell our storage solutions directly through our worldwide sales force and indirectly through channels such as value-added resellers, systems integrators, distributors, oems, and strategic business partners, and we derive a significant portion of our revenue from these indirect channel partners. in fiscal 2008, our indirect channels accounted for 63.0% of our consolidated revenues. in order for us to maintain our current revenue sources and maintain or increase our revenue, we must effectively manage our relationships with these indirect channel partners. to do so, we must attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified channel partners to successfully market our products. however, because we also sell our products directly to customers through our sales force, on occasion we compete with our indirect channels for sales of our products to our end customers, competition that could result in conflicts with these indirect channel partners and make it harder for us to attract and retain these indirect channel partners. at the same time, our indirect channel partners may offer products that are competitive to ours. in addition, because our reseller partners generally offer products from several different companies, including products of our competitors, these resellers may give higher priority to the marketing, sales, and support of our competitors products than ours. if we fail to effectively manage our relationships with these indirect channel partners to minimize channel conflict and continue to evaluate and meet our indirect sales partners needs with respect to our products, we will not be able to maintain or increase our revenue, which would have a materially adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, if we do not manage distribution of our products and services and support effectively, or if our resellers financial condition or operations weaken, our revenues and gross margins could be adversely affected. the u.s. government has contributed to our revenue growth and has become an important customer for us. future revenue from the u.s. government is subject to shifts in government spending patterns. a decrease in government demand for our products, or an adverse outcome in an ongoing investigation by the gsa and the department of justice, could materially affect our growth and result in civil penalties and a loss of revenues. the u.s. government has become an important customer for the storage market and for us; however, government demand is unpredictable, and there can be no assurance that we will maintain or grow our revenue from the u.s. government. government agencies are subject to budgetary processes and expenditure constraints that could lead to delays or decreased capital expenditures in it spending. if the government or individual agencies within the government reduce or shift their capital spending pattern, our financial results may be harmed. 14 table of contents selling our products to the u.s. government also subjects us to certain regulatory requirements. we received a subpoena from the office of inspector general for the general services administration ( gsa ) seeking various records relating to gsa contracting activity by us during the period beginning in 1995 and ending in 2005. the subpoena is part of an investigation being conducted by gsa and the department of justice regarding potential violations of the false claims act in connection with our gsa contracting activity. the subpoena requested a range of documents including documents relating to our discount practices and compliance with the price reduction clause provisions of its gsa contracts. we are cooperating with the investigation and have produced documents and met with the department of justice on several occasions. violations of the false claims act could result in the imposition of a damage remedy which includes treble damages plus civil penalties, and could also result in us being suspended or debarred from future government contracting, any or a combination of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. the market price for our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and will likely continue to do so in the future. the market price for our common stock has experienced substantial volatility in the past, and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. these factors include but are not limited to: fluctuations in our operating results; variations between our operating results and either the guidance we have furnished to the public or the published expectations of securities analysts; fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us; changes in analysts recommendations or projections; inquiries by the sec, nasdaq, law enforcement or other regulatory bodies; economic developments in the storage and data management market as a whole; international conflicts and acts of terrorism; announcements of new products, applications or product enhancements by us or our competitors; changes in our relationships with our suppliers, customers and channel and strategic partners; and general market conditions. in addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that has particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies. additionally, certain macroeconomic factors such as changes in interest rates, the market climate for the technology sector and levels of corporate spending on it could also have an impact on the trading price of our stock. as a result, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future, and any broad market decline, as well as our own operating results, may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. macroeconomic conditions and an it spending slowdown as well as variations in our expected operating performance may continue to cause volatility in our stock price. we are unable to predict changes in general economic conditions and whether or to what extent global it spending rates will be affected. furthermore, if there are future reductions in either domestic or international it spending rates, or if it spending rates do not increase, our revenues, operating results, and stock price may continue to be adversely affected. our forecasts of our revenues and earnings outlook may be inaccurate and could materially and adversely impact our business or our planned results of operations. our revenues are difficult to forecast. we use a pipeline system, a common industry practice, to forecast revenues and trends in our business. sales personnel monitor the status of potential business and estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision, the dollar amount of the sale and the products or services to be sold. these estimates are aggregated periodically to generate a sales pipeline. our pipeline estimates may prove to be unreliable either in a particular quarter or over a longer period of time, in part because the conversion rate of the pipeline into 15 table of contents contracts varies from customer to customer, can be difficult to estimate, and requires management judgment. small deviations from our forecasted conversion rate may result in inaccurate plans and budgets and could materially and adversely impact our business or our planned results of operations. in particular, a slowdown in it spending, weak general economic conditions or evolving technology can reduce the conversion rate in a particular quarter as our customers purchasing decisions are delayed, reduced in amount, or cancelled. in addition, we apply the provisions of statement of position 97-2 and related interpretations to our product sales, both hardware and software, because our software is essential to the performance of our hardware. if we are unable to establish fair value for undelivered elements of a customer order, revenue relating to the entire order may be deferred until the revenue recognition criteria for all elements of the customer order are met. this could lower our net revenue in one period and increase it in future periods, resulting in greater variability in net revenue and income both on a period-to-period basis and on an actual versus forecast basis. if we are unable to successfully implement our global brand awareness campaign, we may not be able to increase our customer base, market share, or revenue, and our operating results will be adversely affected. we believe that building our global brand awareness is a key factor to the long term success of our business and will be crucial in order for us to grow our customer base, increase our market share, and accelerate our revenue growth. in order to increase this awareness, we launched a new branding campaign in march 2008, which includes a new company name, logo, tagline and new corporate messaging. we are also increasing our sales headcount in order to leverage our brand awareness campaign and build demand for our products with both new and existing customers. we are currently incurring, and will continue to incur, significant expenses as a result of these investments. if we are not successful in achieving our desired growth in revenue, customers, demand and market share, whether on the time line we have forecasted or at all, our operating results will be adversely affected. if we are unable to develop and introduce new products and respond to technological change, if our new products do not achieve market acceptance, if we fail to manage the transition between our new and old products, or if we cannot provide the expected level of service and support for our new products, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. our future growth depends upon the successful development and introduction of new hardware and software products. due to the complexity of storage subsystems and storage security appliances and the difficulty in gauging the engineering effort required to produce new products, such products are subject to significant technical risks. in addition, our new products must respond to technological changes and evolving industry standards. if we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, or if such products do not achieve market acceptance, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. furthermore, new or additional product introductions may also adversely affect our sales of existing products, which could also materially and adversely affect our operating results. as new or enhanced products are introduced, we must successfully manage the transition from older products in order to minimize disruption in customers ordering patterns, avoid excessive levels of older product inventories, and ensure that enough supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customers demands. as we enter new or emerging markets, we will likely increase demands on our service and support operations and may be exposed to additional competition. we may not be able to provide products, service and support to effectively compete for these market opportunities. furthermore, provision of greater levels of services may result in a delay in the timing of revenue recognition due to the provisions of statement of position no. 97-2 and related interpretations. our gross margins may vary based on the configuration of our product and service solutions, and such variation may make it more difficult to forecast our earnings. we derive a significant portion of our sales from the resale of disk drives as components of our storage systems, and the resale market for disk drives is highly competitive and subject to intense pricing pressures. our sales of disk 16 table of contents drives generate lower gross margin than those of our storage systems. as a result, as we sell more highly configured systems with greater disk drive content, overall gross margin may be negatively affected. our product gross margins have been and may continue to be affected by a variety of other factors, including: demand for storage and data management products; pricing actions, rebates, initiatives, discount levels and price competition; direct versus indirect and oem sales; product and add-on software mix; the mix of services as a percentage of revenue; the mix and average selling prices of products; the mix of disk content; new product introductions and enhancements; excess inventory purchase commitments as a result of changes in demand forecasts and possible product and software defects as we transition our products; and the cost of components, manufacturing labor, quality, warranty and freight. changes in service gross margins may result from various factors such as: continued investments in our customer support infrastructure; changes in the mix between technical support services and professional services; and the timing of technical support service contract initiations and renewals. an increase in competition could materially and adversely affect our operating results. the storage markets are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapidly changing technology. in the storage market, our primary and nearline storage system products and our associated storage software portfolio compete primarily with storage system products and data management software from emc, hds, hp, ibm, and sun/storagetek. we also see dell, inc. as a competitor in the storage marketplace, primarily through its business partnership with emc, which allows dell to resell emc storage hardware and software products. we have also historically encountered less-frequent competition from other companies, including lsi logic. in the secondary storage market, which includes the disk-to-disk backup, compliance, and business continuity segments, our solutions compete primarily against products from emc and sun/storagetek. our nearstore vtl appliances also compete with traditional tape backup solutions in the broader data backup/recovery space. additionally, a number of small, new companies are currently attempting to enter the storage systems and data management software markets and the near-line and nearstore vtl storage markets, some of which may become significant competitors in the future. there has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years. we expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. we believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. in addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties. accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. competitive pressures we face could materially and adversely affect our operating results. 17 table of contents we rely on a limited number of suppliers, and any disruption or termination of our supply arrangements could delay shipment of our products and could materially and adversely affect our operating results. we rely on a limited number of suppliers for components such as disk drives, computer boards and microprocessors utilized in the assembly of our products. in recent years, rapid industry consolidation has led to fewer component suppliers, which could subject us to periodic supply constraints and price rigidity. our reliance on a limited number of suppliers involves several risks, including: a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components; supplier capacity constraints; price increases; timely delivery; and component quality. component quality risk is particularly significant with respect to our suppliers of disk drives. in order to meet product performance requirements, we must obtain disk drives of extremely high quality and capacity. in addition, there are periodic supply-and-demand issues for disk drives, microprocessors and semiconductor memory components, which could result in component shortages, selective supply allocations and increased prices of such components. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain our full requirements of such components in the future or that prices of such components will not increase. in addition, problems with respect to yield and quality of such components and timeliness of deliveries could occur. disruption or termination of the supply of these components could delay shipments of our products and could materially and adversely affect our operating results. such delays could also damage relationships with current and prospective customers and suppliers. in addition, we license certain technology and software from third parties that are incorporated into our products. if we are unable to obtain or license the technology and software on a timely basis or on acceptable terms, we will not be able to deliver products to our customers in a timely manner. the loss of any contract manufacturers or the failure to accurately forecast demand for our products or successfully manage our relationships with our contract manufacturers could negatively impact our ability to manufacture and sell our products. we currently rely on several contract manufacturers to manufacture our products in multiple locations around the world. our reliance on our third party contract manufacturers reduces our control over the manufacturing process, exposing us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, production costs and product supply. if we should fail to effectively manage our relationships with our contract manufacturers, or if our contract manufacturers experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in their manufacturing operations, our ability to ship products to our customers could be impaired, and our competitive position and reputation could be harmed. qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing volume production is expensive and time-consuming. if we are required to change contract manufacturers or bring certain manufacturing in-house, we may lose revenue and damage our customer relationships. if we inaccurately forecast demand for our products, we may have excess or inadequate inventory or incur cancellation charges or penalties, which could adversely impact our operating results. to date, we do not have any significant purchase commitments under our agreements with contract manufacturers. we intend to regularly introduce new products and product enhancements, which will require us to rapidly achieve volume production by coordinating with our contract manufacturers and suppliers. we may need to increase our material purchases, contract manufacturing capacity and quality functions to meet anticipated demand. the inability of our contract manufacturers to provide us with adequate supplies of high-quality products or their inability to obtain raw materials suitable for our needs could cause a delay in our ability to fulfill orders. 18 table of contents our future financial performance depends on growth in the storage and data management markets. if these markets do not continue to grow at the rates we expect and upon which we calculate and forecast our growth, our operating results will be materially and adversely impacted. all of our products address the storage and data management markets. accordingly, our future financial performance will depend in large part on continued growth in the storage and data management markets and on our ability to adapt to emerging standards in these markets. we cannot assure you that the markets for storage and data management will continue to grow or that emerging standards in these markets will not adversely affect the growth of unix, windows and the world wide web server markets upon which we depend. for example, we provide our open access data retention solutions to customers within the financial services, healthcare, pharmaceutical and government market segments, industries that are subject to various evolving governmental regulations with respect to data access, reliability and permanence (such as rule 17(a)(4) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended) in the united states and in the other countries in which we operate. if our products do not meet and continue to comply with these evolving governmental regulations in this regard, customers in these market and geographical segments will not purchase our products, and we will not be able to expand our product offerings in these market and geographical segments at the rates for which we have forecast. we are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates; impairment of our investments could harm our financial results. at april 25, 2008, and april 27, 2007, we had $1,487.3 million and $1,430.7 million, respectively, in cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and restricted cash and investments. we invest our cash in a variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of investments in corporate bonds, money market funds, corporate securities, municipalities and the united states government and its agencies, and auction rate securities. these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by unusual events such as the sub-prime mortgage crisis in the united states which has affected various sectors of the financial markets and led to global credit and liquidity issues. if the global credit market continues to deteriorate, our investment portfolio may be impacted and we could determine that some of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring an impairment charge which could adversely impact our financial results. we account for our investment instruments in accordance with statement of financial accounting standards ( sfas ) no. 115, accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities . all of the cash equivalents, marketable securities and restricted investments are treated as available-for-sale under sfas no. 115. investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate debt securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates. currently, we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. because we have the ability and intent to hold our available-for-sale investments until maturity, no gains or losses are recognized due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity. however, we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that have experienced a decline in market value because of changes in interest rates. currently, we do not use financial derivatives to hedge our interest rate exposure. funds associated with certain of our auction rate securities may not be accessible for in excess of 12 months and our auction rate securities may experience an other than temporary decline in value, which would adversely affect our earnings. auction rate securities or, ars, held by us are securities with long term nominal maturities which, in accordance with investment policy guidelines, had credit ratings of aaa and aaa at time of purchase. interest rates for ars are reset through a dutch auction each month, which historically has provided a liquid market for these securities. substantially all of our ars are backed by pools of student loans guaranteed by the u.s. department of education, and we believe the credit quality of these securities is high based on this guarantee. however liquidity 19 table of contents issues in the global credit markets resulted in the failure of auctions for certain of our ars investments, with a par value of $76.2 million at april 25, 2008. for each failed auction, the interest rate moves to a maximum rate defined for each security, and the ars continue to pay interest in accordance with their terms, although the principal associated with the ars will not be accessible until there is a successful auction or such time as other markets for ars investments develop. we believe that the underlying credit quality of the assets backing our ars investments have not been impacted by the reduced liquidity of these investments. based on an analysis of the fair value and marketability of these investments, we recorded a temporary impairment within other accumulated comprehensive income, an element of stockholders equity on our balance sheet, of approximately $3.5 million at april 25, 2008. in addition, we have classified all of our auction rate securities that were not liquidated before april 25, 2008 as long-term assets in our consolidated balance sheet as of april 25, 2008 as our ability to liquidate such securities in the next 12 months is uncertain. if liquidity issues in the global credit market continue, or worsen, or if we experience reduced credit quality, extended illiquidity or realize reduced valuations of our ars investments, we may determine that we have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value in these long-term assets, which could adversely impact our financial results. our leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. as a result of our sale of $1.265 billion of 1.75% convertible senior notes in june 2008 (the notes ), we have a greater amount of long-term debt than we have maintained in the past. we also have two credit facilities and various synthetic lease arrangements. as of april 25, 2008, as adjusted to give effect to the issuance of the notes as of such date, we would have had approximately $1.438 billion of long-term debt outstanding. in addition, subject to the restrictions in our existing and any future financings agreements, we may incur additional debt. our maintenance of higher levels of indebtedness could have important consequences because: it could adversely affect our ability to satisfy our obligations; an increased portion of our cash flows from operations may have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; it may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and it may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general. our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. we will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions and governmental regulations. our operations may not generate sufficient cash to enable us to service our debt. if we fail to make a payment on our debt, we could be in default on such debt, and this default could cause us to be in default on our other outstanding classes of debt. future issuances of common stock and hedging activities by holders of the notes may depress the trading price of our common stock and the notes. any issuance of equity securities after the notes offering, including the issuance of shares upon conversion of the notes, could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders, including holders who receive shares upon conversion of their notes, and could substantially decrease the trading price of our common stock and the notes. we may issue equity securities in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy (including in connection with acquisitions, strategic collaborations or other transactions), to increase our capital, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding warrants or options or for other reasons. 20 table of contents in addition, the price of our common stock could also be affected by possible sales of our common stock by investors who view the notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that we expect to develop involving our common stock by holders of the notes. the hedging or arbitrage could, in turn, affect the trading price of the notes, or any common stock that holders receive upon conversion of the notes. conversion of our notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their notes. the conversion of some or all of our outstanding notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders to the extent we deliver common stock upon conversion of the notes. upon conversion, we will satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering cash for the principal amount of a note and shares of common stock, if any, to the extent the conversion value exceeds the principal amount. there would be no adjustment to the numerator in the net income per common share computation for the cash settled portion of the notes as that portion of the debt instrument will always be settled in cash. the number of shares delivered upon conversion, if any, will be included in the denominator for the computation of diluted net income per common share. any sales in the public market of any common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. in addition, the existence of the notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the notes could be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of the notes into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. the note hedge and warrant transactions that we entered into in connection with the sale of the notes may affect the trading price of our common stock. in connection with the issuance of the notes, we entered into privately negotiated convertible note hedge transactions with certain option counterparties (the counterparties ), which are expected to reduce the potential dilution to our common stock upon any conversion of the notes. at the same time, we also entered into warrant transactions with the counterparties pursuant to which we may issue shares of our common stock above a certain strike price. in connection with hedging these transactions, the counterparties may have entered into various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock or purchased shares of our common stock in secondary market transactions at or following the pricing of the notes. such activities may have had the effect of increasing the price of our common stock. the counterparties are likely to modify their hedge positions from time to time prior to conversion or maturity of the notes by purchasing and selling shares of our common stock or entering into other derivative transactions. additionally, these transactions may expose us to counterparty credit risk for nonperformance. we manage our exposure to counterparty credit risk through specific minimum credit standards and the diversification of counterparties. the effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock or the notes will depend, in part, on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock. in addition, if our stock price exceeds the strike price for the warrants, there could be additional dilution to our shareholders, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. our synthetic leases are off-balance sheet arrangements that could negatively affect our financial condition and results. we are investing substantial resources in new facilities and physical infrastructure, which will increase our fixed costs. our profitability could be reduced if our business does not grow proportionately to our increase in fixed costs. we have various synthetic lease arrangements with bnp paribas leasing corporation (the lessor) for our headquarters office buildings in sunnyvale, california and a data center in research triangle park, north carolina. these synthetic leases qualify for operating lease accounting treatment under sfas no. 13, accounting for leases (as amended), and are not considered variable interest entities under fin no. 46r consolidation of variable interest entities (revised). therefore, we do not include the properties or the associated debt on our condensed consolidated balance sheet. however, if circumstances were to change regarding our or bnp ownership of the properties, or in bnp overall portfolio, we could be required to consolidate the entity, the leased facilities and the associated debt. 21 table of contents if we elect not to purchase the properties at the end of the lease term, we have guaranteed a minimum residual value to bnp. therefore, if the fair value of the properties declines below that guaranteed minimum residual value, our residual value guarantee would require us to pay the difference to bnp, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. we have contractual commitments related to capital expenditures on construction or expansion of our facilities and data center. we may encounter cost overruns or project delays in connection with new facilities. these expansions will increase our fixed costs. if we are unable to grow our business and revenues proportionately to our increase in fixed costs, our profitability will be reduced. we are subject to restrictive debt covenants pursuant to our indebtedness. these covenants may restrict our ability to finance our business and, if we do not comply with the covenants or otherwise default under them, we may not have the funds necessary to pay all amounts that could become due. the agreements governing our credit facilities and synthetic lease arrangements contain, and any other future debt agreement we enter into may contain, covenant restrictions that limit our ability to operate our business, including restrictions on our ability to: incur indebtedness; incur indebtedness at the subsidiary level; grant liens; sell all or substantially all our assets: enter into certain mergers; change our business; enter into swap agreements; enter into transactions with our affiliates; and enter into certain restrictive agreements. our ability to comply with these covenants is dependent on our future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including prevailing economic conditions. as a result of these covenants, our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be significantly restricted, and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us. in addition, our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under the notes and our other debt, which could permit the holders to accelerate such debt. if any of our debt is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available to repay such debt. unfavorable economic and market conditions and global disruptions could adversely affect our operating results. our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable global economic and market conditions as well as the uncertain geopolitical environment. customer demand for our products is intrinsically linked to the strength of the economy. a reduction in demand for storage and data management caused by weakening economic conditions and customer decreases in corporate spending, deferral or delay of it projects, longer time frames for it purchasing decisions and generally reduced capital expenditures for it storage solutions will result in decreased revenues and lower revenue growth rates for us. the network storage market growth declined significantly beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2001 through fiscal 2003, causing both our revenues and operating results to decline. if the storage and data management markets grow more slowly than anticipated, or if emerging standards other than those adopted by us become increasingly accepted by these markets, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. 22 table of contents turmoil in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world, including terrorist activities and military actions, may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions. we have no assurance that the consequences from these events will not disrupt our operations in either the u.s. or other regions of the world. continued increases in energy prices, declining economic conditions and global credit and liquidity issues could also affect our future operating results. if the economic and market conditions in the united states and globally do not improve, or if they deteriorate, we may experience material adverse impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition. risks inherent in our international operations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. we conduct a significant portion of our business outside the united states. a substantial portion of our revenues is derived from sales outside of the u.s. for example, in fiscal 2008, 47.1% of our total revenues were from international customers (including u.s. exports). in addition, we have several research and development centers overseas, and a substantial portion of our products are manufactured outside of the u.s. accordingly, our business and our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected by a variety of factors affecting our international operations, some of which are beyond our control, including regulatory, political, or economic conditions in a specific country or region, trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements, government spending patterns, and acts of terrorism and international conflicts. in addition, we may not be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. our international sales are denominated in u.s. dollars and in foreign currencies. an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products more expensive and therefore potentially less competitive in foreign markets. conversely, lowering our price in local currency may result in lower u.s.-based revenue. a decrease in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies could increase the cost of local operating expenses. additionally, we have exposures to emerging market currencies, which can have extreme currency volatility. we utilize forward and option contracts to hedge our foreign currency exposure associated with certain assets and liabilities as well as anticipated foreign currency cash flows. all balance sheet hedges are marked to market through earnings every quarter. the time-value component of our cash flow hedges is recorded in earnings while all other gains and losses are marked to market through other comprehensive income until forecasted transactions occur, at which time such realized gains and losses are recognized in earnings. these hedges attempt to reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange movements. factors that could have an impact on the effectiveness of our hedging program include the accuracy of forecasts and the volatility of foreign currency markets as well as widening interest rate differentials and the volatility of the foreign exchange market. there can be no assurance that such hedging strategies will be successful and that currency exchange rate fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results. additional risks inherent in our international business activities generally include, among others, longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in managing international operations. such factors could materially and adversely affect our future international sales and consequently our operating results. our international operations are subject to other risks, including general import/export restrictions and the potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than u.s. law. a significant portion of our cash and cash equivalents balances are held overseas. if we are not able to generate sufficient cash domestically in order to fund our u.s. operations and strategic opportunities and service our debt, we may incur a significant tax liability in order to repatriate the overseas cash balances, or we may need to raise additional capital in the future. a portion of our earnings which is generated from our international operations is held and invested by certain of our foreign subsidiaries. these amounts are not freely available for dividend repatriation to the united states without triggering significant adverse tax consequences, which could adversely affect our financial results. as a result, unless the cash generated by our domestic operations is sufficient to fund our domestic operations, our broader corporate initiatives such as stock repurchases, acquisitions, and other strategic opportunities, and to 23 table of contents service our outstanding indebtedness, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings, or we may need to expand our existing credit facilities to the extent we choose not to repatriate our overseas cash. such additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all, and any new equity financings or offerings would dilute our current stockholders ownership. furthermore, lenders, in particular in light of the current challenges in the credit markets, may not agree to extend us new, additional or continuing credit. if adequate funds are not available, or are not available on acceptable terms, we may be forced to repatriate our foreign cash and incur a significant tax expense or we may not be able to take advantage of strategic opportunities, develop new products, respond to competitive pressures or repay our outstanding indebtedness. in any such case, our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. our effective tax rate may increase or fluctuate, which could increase our income tax expense and reduce our net income. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we are taxed at lower rates as compared to the u.s. statutory tax rate; material differences between forecasted and actual tax rates as a result of a shift in the mix of pretax profits and losses by tax jurisdiction, our ability to use tax credits, or effective tax rates by tax jurisdiction different than our estimates; changing tax laws, accounting standards, such as occurred with the introduction of sfas no. 123r and fin no. 48, regulations, and interpretations in multiple tax jurisdictions in which we operate, as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings; an increase in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including certain stock-based compensation expense, write-offs of acquired in-process research and development, and impairment of goodwill; the tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws; tax assessments or any related tax interest or penalties could significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in which the settlements take place; and a change in our decision to indefinitely reinvest foreign earnings. we receive significant tax benefits from sales to our non-u.s. customers. these benefits are contingent upon existing tax regulations in the united states and in the countries in which our international operations are located. future changes in domestic or international tax regulations could adversely affect our ability to continue to realize these tax benefits. our international operations currently benefit from a tax ruling concluded in the netherlands, which expires in 2010. if we are unable to renegotiate a similar tax ruling upon expiration of the current ruling, our effective tax rate could increase and our operating results could be adversely affected. our effective tax rate could also be adversely affected by different and evolving interpretations of existing law or regulations, which in turn would negatively impact our operating and financial results as a whole. the price of our common stock could decline to the extent that our financial results are materially affected by an adverse change in our effective tax rate. we are currently undergoing federal income tax audits in the united states and several foreign tax jurisdictions. the rights to some of our intellectual property ( ip ) are owned by certain of our foreign subsidiaries, and payments are made between u.s. and foreign tax jurisdictions relating to the use of this ip in a qualified cost sharing arrangement. recently, several other u.s. companies have had their foreign ip arrangements challenged as part of irs examinations, which has resulted in material proposed assessments and/or pending litigation. our management does not believe, based upon information currently known to us, that the final resolution of any of our audits will have a material adverse effect upon our consolidated financial 24 table of contents position and our results of operations and cash flows. if the ultimate determination of our taxes owed in any of these tax jurisdictions is for an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may face increased risks and uncertainties related to our current or future acquisitions and investments in nonmarketable securities of private companies, and these investments may not achieve our objectives. as part of our strategy, we are continuously evaluating opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that would complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets, or enhance our technical capabilities. we may engage in future acquisitions that dilute our stockholders investments and cause us to use cash, incur debt, or assume contingent liabilities. acquisitions of companies entail numerous risks, and we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired operations and products or to realize anticipated synergies, economies of scale, or other value. integration risks and issues may include, but are not limited to, key personnel retention and assimilation, management distraction, technical development and unexpected costs and liabilities, including goodwill impairment charges. in addition, we may be unable to recover strategic investments in development stage entities. any such problems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. on occasion, we invest in nonmarketable securities of private companies. as of april 25, 2008, the carrying value of our investments in nonmarketable securities totaled $11.2 million. investments in nonmarketable securities are inherently risky, and some of these companies are likely to fail. their success (or lack thereof) is dependent on product development, market acceptance, operational efficiency and other key business success factors. in addition, depending on these companies future prospects, they may not be able to raise additional funds when needed, or they may receive lower valuations, with less favorable investment terms than in previous financings, and our investments in them would likely become impaired. if we fail to manage our expanding business effectively, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. our future operating results depend to a large extent on management ability to successfully manage expansion and growth, including but not limited to expanding international operations, forecasting revenues, addressing new markets, controlling expenses, implementing and enhancing infrastructure, investing in people, facilities and capital equipment and managing our assets. an unexpected decline in the growth rate of revenues without a corresponding and timely reduction in expense growth or a failure to manage other aspects of growth could materially and adversely affect our operating results. in addition, continued expansion could strain our current management, financial, manufacturing and other existing systems and may require us to improve those existing systems or implement new ones. if we experience any problems with the improvement or expansion of these systems, procedures or controls, or if these systems, procedures or controls are not designed, implemented or improved in a cost-effective and timely manner, our operations may be materially and adversely affected. in addition, any failure to implement, improve and expand such systems, procedures and controls in a timely and efficient manner could harm our growth strategy and materially and adversely affect our financial condition and ability to achieve our business objectives. as we continue to grow our business, we are likely to incur costs earlier than some of the anticipated benefits, which could harm our operating results. a significant percentage of our expenses are fixed, which could materially and adversely affect our net income. we are increasing our investment in engineering, sales, service support and other functions to grow our business. we are likely to recognize the costs associated with these increased investments earlier than some of the anticipated benefits, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect, which could harm our business. 25 table of contents our expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to future sales, and a significant percentage of our expenses are fixed. as a result, if sales levels are below expectations or previously higher levels, net income will be affected in a material and adverse manner. we depend on the ability of our personnel, raw materials, equipment and products to move reasonably unimpeded around the world. our business could be materially and adversely affected as a result of a natural disaster, terrorist acts or other catastrophic events. any political, military, world health or other issue that hinders this movement or restricts the import or export of materials could lead to significant business disruptions. furthermore, any strike, economic failure or other material disruption caused by fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, power shortages, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events could also adversely affect our ability to conduct business. if such disruptions result in cancellations of customer orders or contribute to a general decrease in economic activity or corporate spending on information technology, or directly impact our marketing, manufacturing, financial and logistics functions, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. in addition, our headquarters are located in northern california, an area susceptible to earthquakes. if any significant disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business could be impaired. we depend on attracting and retaining qualified technical and sales personnel. if we are unable to attract and retain such personnel, our operating results could be materially and adversely impacted. our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to identify, attract, motivate and retain qualified technical and sales personnel. because our future success is dependent on our ability to continue to enhance and introduce new products, we are particularly dependent on our ability to identify, attract, motivate and retain qualified engineers with the requisite education, background and industry experience. competition for qualified engineers, particularly in silicon valley, can be intense. the loss of the services of a significant number of our engineers or salespeople could be disruptive to our development efforts or business relationships and could materially and adversely affect our operating results. undetected software errors, hardware errors, or failures found in new products may result in loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, which could increase our costs and reduce our revenues. product quality problems could lead to reduced revenue, gross margins and net income. our products may contain undetected software errors, hardware errors or failures when first introduced or as new versions are released. despite testing by us and by current and potential customers, errors may not be found in new products until after commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in loss of or delay in market acceptance, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. if we fail to remedy a product defect, we may experience a failure of a product line, temporary or permanent withdrawal from a product or market, damage to our reputation, inventory costs or product reengineering expenses, any of which could have a material impact on our revenue, margins and net income. in addition, we may be subject to losses that may result or are alleged to result from defects in our products, which could subject us to claims for damages, including consequential damages. based on our historical experience, we believe that the risk of exposure to product liability claims is currently low. however, should we experience increased exposure to product liability claims, our business could be adversely impacted. we are exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims and protection of intellectual property rights, which could adversely affect our operating results. we are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business, including our ongoing litigation with sun microsystems. litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. an unfavorable resolution of a particular lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. 26 table of contents if we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may be subject to increased competition that could materially and adversely affect our operating results. our success depends significantly upon our proprietary technology. we rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions, and patents to protect our proprietary rights. we seek to protect our software, documentation and other written materials under trade secret, copyright and patent laws, which afford only limited protection. some of our u.s. trademarks are registered internationally as well. we will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks as appropriate. we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and with our resellers, strategic partners and customers. we currently have multiple u.s. and international patent applications pending and multiple u.s. patents issued. the pending applications may not be approved, and our existing and future patents may be challenged. if such challenges are brought, the patents may be invalidated. we cannot assure you that we will develop proprietary products or technologies that are patentable, that any issued patent will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties, or that the patents of others will not materially and adversely affect our ability to do business. in addition, a failure to obtain and defend our trademark registrations may impede our marketing and branding efforts and competitive position. litigation may be necessary to protect our proprietary technology. any such litigation may be time consuming and costly. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the united states. we cannot assure you that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products, or design around patents issued to us or other intellectual property rights of ours. we are subject to intellectual property infringement claims. we may, from time to time, receive claims that we are infringing third parties intellectual property rights. third parties may in the future claim infringement by us with respect to current or future products, patents, trademarks or other proprietary rights. we expect that companies in the network storage market will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. any such claims could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays, require us to redesign our products or to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. our business is subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure, accounting and tax requirements that have increased both our costs and the risk of noncompliance. because our common stock is publicly traded, we are subject to certain rules and regulations of federal, state and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. these entities, including the public company accounting oversight board, the sec, and nasdaq, have implemented requirements and regulations and continue developing additional regulations and requirements in response to corporate scandals and laws enacted by congress, most notably the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. our efforts to comply with these regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue resulting in, increased general and administrative expenses and diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. we completed our evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting for the fiscal year ended april 25, 2008 as required by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. although our assessment, testing and evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of april 25, 2008, our internal controls over financial reporting were effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. if our internal controls are ineffective in future periods, our business and reputation could be harmed. we may incur additional expenses and commitment of management time in connection with further evaluations, either of which could materially increase our operating expenses and accordingly reduce our net income. because new and modified laws, regulations, and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by 27 table of contents regulatory and governing bodies. this evolution may result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and additional costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to our disclosure and governance practices. our ability to forecast earnings is limited by the impact of new and existing accounting requirements such as sfas no. 123r. the financial accounting standards board requires companies to recognize the fair value of stock options and other share-based payment compensation to employees as compensation expense in the statement of income. option pricing models require the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the expected stock price volatility, expected life and forfeiture rate. we have chosen to base our estimate of future volatility using the implied volatility of traded options to purchase our common stock as permitted by sab no. 107. management applies judgment when determining estimated forfeiture rates. we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions management believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions and, as a result, could have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. given the unpredictable nature of the black scholes variables and other management assumptions such as number of options to be granted, underlying strike price and associated income tax impacts, it is very difficult to forecast stock-based compensation expense for any given quarter or year. any changes in these highly subjective assumptions may significantly impact our ability to make accurate forecasts of future earnings and volatility of our stock price. if another party asserts that the fair value of our employee stock options is misstated, securities class action litigation could be brought against us, or the market price of our common stock could decline, or both could occur. as a result, we could incur significant losses, and our operating results may be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk related to fluctuations in interest rates, market prices, and foreign currency exchange rates. we use certain derivative financial instruments to manage these risks. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. all financial instruments are used in accordance with management-approved policies. market risk and market interest risk investment and interest income as of april 25, 2008, we had available-for-sale investments of $543.2 million, which included restricted investments in connection with our credit facility. our investment portfolio primarily consists of investments with original maturities at the date of purchase of greater than three months, which are classified as available-for-sale. these investments, consisting primarily of corporate bonds, corporate securities, government, municipal debt securities, and auction-rate securities, are subject to interest rate and interest income risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates from levels at april 25, 2008 would cause the fair value of these available-for-sale investments to decline by approximately $2.1 million. because we have the ability to hold these investments until maturity, we would not expect any significant decline in value of our investments caused by market interest rate changes. declines in interest rates over time will, however, reduce our interest income. we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. we are also exposed to market risk relating to our long-term investments in auction rate securities due to uncertainties in the credit and capital markets. as of april 25, 2008, our long term investments of $83.9 million include fair value of auction rate securities (ars) in the amount of $72.7 million. during fiscal 2008, we determined that there was a decline in the fair value of our ars investments of approximately $3.5 million and recorded a temporary impairment charge. the fair value of our auction rate securities may change significantly due to events and conditions in the credit and capital markets. while these ars had credit ratings of aaa and aaa at time of purchase, these securities/issuers could be subject to review for possible downgrade. any downgrade in these credit ratings may result in additional decline in estimated fair value of our auction rate securities. changes in the various assumptions used to value these securities and any increase in the markets perceived risk associated with such investments may also result in a decline in estimated fair value. if the current market conditions deteriorate further, or the anticipated recovery in market values does not occur, we may be required to record additional unrealized losses in other comprehensive income (loss) or impairment charges to earnings in future quarters. we intend and have the ability to hold these auction rate securities until the market recovers. we do not believe that the lack of liquidity relating to our ars investments will impact our ability to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures or other operating requirements. our investment policy is to limit credit exposure through diversification and investment in highly rated securities. we further mitigate concentrations of credit risk in our investments by limiting our investments in the debt securities of a single issuer and by diversifying risk across geographies and type of issuer. we actively review, along with our investment advisors, current investment ratings, company specific events, and general economic conditions in managing our investments and in determining whether there is a significant decline in fair value that is other-than-temporary. we have not experienced any material losses on our available-for-sale investments. to the extent we determine that a decline in fair value is other-than-temporary, the associated investment is valued at current fair value and an impairment charge is reflected in earnings. 57 table of contents lease commitments as of april 25, 2008, we have three arrangements with bnp to lease our land for a period of 99 years to construct approximately 569,697 square feet of office space and a parking structure costing up to $162.5 million. we also have a fourth arrangement with bnp to lease our land for a period of 99 years to construct approximately 120,000 square feet of data center costing up to $61.0 million for a term of five and a half years. after completion of construction, we will pay minimum lease payments which vary based on the libor plus a spread. in the third quarter of fiscal 2008, we entered into an additional financing and operating leasing arrangements with bnp to lease approximately 374,274 square feet of three buildings located in sunnyvale, california for $101.1 million for a term of five years. we have the option to renew these leases for two consecutive five-year periods upon approval by bnp. a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates from levels at april 25, 2008 would increase our total lease payments under the initial five-year term by approximately $3.5 million. we do not currently hedge against market interest rate increases. as additional cash flow generated from operations is invested at current market rates, it will offer a natural hedge against interest rate risk from our lease commitments in the event of a significant change in market interest rate. debt obligation we have an outstanding secured credit agreement totaling $172.6 million as of april 25, 2008. under the terms of this arrangement, we expect to make interest payments at libor plus a spread. a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates from levels at april 25, 2008 would increase our total interest payments by approximately $2.5 million. we do not currently use derivatives to manage interest rate risk for this arrangement. as additional cash flow generated from operations is invested at current market rates, it will offer a natural hedge against interest rate risk from our debt in the event of a significant change in market interest rate. nonmarketable securities we have from time to time made cash investments in companies with distinctive technologies that are potentially strategically important to us. our investments in nonmarketable securities would be negatively affected by an adverse change in equity market prices, although the impact cannot be directly quantified. such a change, or any negative change in the financial performance or prospects of the companies whose nonmarketable securities we own, would harm the ability of these companies to raise additional capital and the likelihood of our being able to realize any gains or return of our investments through liquidity events such as initial public offerings, acquisitions, and private sales. these types of investments involve a high degree of risk, and there can be no assurance that any company we invest in will grow or be successful. we do not currently engage in any hedging activities to reduce or eliminate equity price risk with respect to such nonmarketable investments. accordingly, we could lose all or part of these investments if there is an adverse change in the market price of a company we invest in. our investments in nonmarketable securities had a carrying amount of $11.2 million as of april 25, 2008 and $8.9 million as of april 27, 2007. if we determine that an other-than-temporary decline in fair value exists for a nonmarketable equity security, we write down the investments to their fair value and record the related write-down as an investment loss in our consolidated statements of income. foreign currency exchange rate risk and foreign exchange forward contracts we hedge risks associated with foreign currency transactions to minimize the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on earnings. we utilize forward and option contracts to hedge against the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. all balance sheet hedges are marked to market through earnings every period. we also use foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge foreign currency forecasted transactions related to certain sales and operating expenses. these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges under sfas no. 133. for cash flow hedges outstanding at april 25, 2008, the gains or losses were included in other comprehensive income. we do not enter into foreign exchange contracts for speculative or trading purposes. in entering into forward and option foreign exchange contracts, we have assumed the risk that might arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts. we attempt to limit our exposure to credit risk by executing foreign exchange contracts with creditworthy multinational commercial banks. all contracts have a maturity of less than one year. 58 table of contents the following table provides information about our foreign exchange forward contracts and currency options contracts outstanding on april 25, 2008 (in thousands): notional notional foreign contract value fair value currency buy/sell currency amount in usd in usd forward contracts: eur sell 153,226 $ 238,961 $ 238,740 gbp sell 46,488 $ 91,772 $ 91,978 cad sell 21,480 $ 21,116 $ 21,115 other sell n/a $ 15,490 $ 15,489 aud buy 36,801 $ 34,127 $ 34,122 other buy n/a $ 17,823 $ 17,820 the following table provides information about our foreign exchange forward contracts and currency options contracts outstanding on april 27, 2007 (in thousands): notional notional foreign contract value fair value currency buy/sell currency amount in usd in usd forward contracts: eur sell 156,155 $ 211,846 $ 212,838 gbp sell 33,418 $ 66,507 $ 66,698 cad sell 24,186 $ 21,670 $ 21,672 other sell n/a $ 20,190 $ 20,194 aud buy 23,654 $ 19,582 $ 19,581 other buy n/a $ 5,981 $ 5,981 option contracts: eur sell 13,000 $ 17,711 $ 17,823 gbp sell 2,000 $ 3,992 $ 4,020 59 table of contentsoverview netapp, inc. (netapp) is a leading provider of storage and data management solutions that help increase it efficiency and flexibility. customers around the world choose us for our broad portfolio of application, virtualization, cloud, and service provider solutions that help customers streamline operations and lower the costs associated with storing and managing their data. we believe that our innovative technologies position us well to take advantage of the market shift from traditional dedicated storage to shared storage in virtualized it infrastructures. wherever an organization is on the path to a shared it infrastructure, netapp &reg; solutions bring immediate cost savings and help enable quick response to change. netapp offers the optimal storage platform for delivering the sustained efficiency and flexibility customers need to enable business success. our products and services are designed to meet the expansive requirements and demanding service levels of large enterprises and their mission-critical business applications. in addition, we bring our affordable, enterprise-proven technology to midsize enterprises. to better meet the needs of our customers, we develop integrated solutions that optimize the performance of customers applications and their infrastructure in partnership with 4 table of contents key industry leaders such as cisco systems, ibm, microsoft, sap, symantec, and vmware. we also design our products to satisfy the demands of high-performance computing and technical data center applications, offering solutions used in the design of semiconductors and automobiles, as well as graphics rendering and seismic exploration. we were incorporated in 1992 and shipped the world first networked storage appliance a year later. since then, we have brought to market many innovations in storage and data management. we have grown to more than 11,000 employees, including approximately 1,000 additional employees from the recent acquisition of certain assets related to the engenio external storage systems business (esg) of lsi corporation (lsi). we have operations in over 130 locations around the world. netapp product overview netapp offers highly available, scalable, and cost-effective storage solutions that incorporate our unified storage platform and the feature-rich functionality of our data and storage resource management software. the cost savings that can be realized from the netapp unified storage architecture and the infrastructure consolidation that can be achieved through a single storage platform are significant and can provide a strong platform for a service-oriented it infrastructure. the netapp unified storage architecture, secure multi-tenancy capability, scalable systems, efficiency technologies, and data management software functionality provide a powerful combination for enterprises building internal private clouds and for service providers building it-as-a-service offerings. we believe that by providing greater efficiency and flexibility, our solutions help improve business productivity, performance, and profitability, while providing investment protection and enhanced asset utilization. our enterprise-class storage solutions are complemented by our services expertise to enable interoperability and optimization in the context of the application and it infrastructure within which they are deployed. data ontap software our fabric-attached storage (fas) and v-series storage solutions are based on data ontap &reg; , a highly scalable and flexible operating system that concurrently supports any mix of storage area network (san) and network-attached storage (nas) environments. this unified storage software platform is compatible with unix &reg; , linux &reg; , and web environments. the data ontap operating system provides the foundation to build a shared storage infrastructure and an enterprise-wide data fabric for the full breadth of business applications and data storage and protection requirements. data ontap features scalability, secure multi-tenancy, and unification across protocols and disks. data ontap also unifies storage efficiency, data management, and data protection. we believe customers can benefit from these capabilities as they increasingly virtualize application environments. our deduplication for primary and secondary storage, thin provisioning, and highly efficient hardware help maximize utilization while reducing data center footprint and lowering storage-related power and cooling consumption. a few of the technology features we offer with data ontap include: flexshare &reg; technology, which directs how storage system resources are used to deliver an appropriate level of service for each application; flexcache &reg; technology, which allows performance acceleration through the creation of read-only cached volumes by creating caching volumes on multiple storage controllers; multistore &reg; software, which allows partitioning of individual physical storage systems into multiple secure and separate logical partitions; and raid-dp &reg; , a standard data ontap feature that safeguards data from double disk failure. integrated with our wafl &reg; (write anywhere file layout) file system, raid-dp gives customers data protection plus high performance. 5 table of contents storage efficiency netapp portfolio of efficiency technologies helps our customers reduce their storage spending and get more from the storage assets they already own. some of the efficiency technologies we offer include: flexvol &reg; technology, which provides for thin provisioning through virtual volumes, enabling storage architectures to be more efficient and achieve higher utilization using flexible volumes that do not require repartitioning of physical storage space; flexclone &reg; technology, which enables true data cloning using logical copies that do not require additional physical storage space and allows for instant replication of data volumes and datasets; and deduplication technology, which provides the ability to eliminate duplicate data within primary and secondary disk storage environments, resulting in greater efficiency and higher utilization of storage capacity. storage management and application integration software netapp oncommand &reg; management software improves storage and service efficiency through functions that help customers control, automate, and analyze their shared storage infrastructures. our management software family of products provides a broad range of storage and data management tools to simplify it administration and enhance flexibility and productivity. we deliver differentiated products that support industry open standards and interfaces to deliver this value to customers. we tightly integrate our software with database and business application software from partners such as microsoft, oracle, sap, and vmware in order to optimize the performance of those applications on our storage systems. through data center automation tools, we give customers the ability to monitor service levels, manage performance, and support change management in complex enterprise san environments. we help customers optimize shared infrastructures by supporting individual application performance, service level, and security needs even while the storage is shared across multiple applications. fas unified storage systems family the netapp family of modular, scalable, highly available, unified storage systems supports a full range of data for users on a variety of platforms. in the same way that server virtualization eliminates the sprawl in the application layer, netapp fas unified architecture streamlines, simplifies, and consolidates the storage layer. the fas6200, fas3200, and fas2000 series of fabric-attached storage systems are designed to consolidate all types of storage workloads including primary and secondary data, as well as structured and unstructured data across all key os platforms and network infrastructures. also, netapp unifies storage access for all standard network protocols based on a single hba technology and standard ip networks. all netapp fas systems are interoperable and provide common software services. netapp provides a data-in-place upgrade path that spans from entry-level platforms for smaller organizations all the way to high-end data center environments. the netapp fas unified architecture supports both scale-up and scale-out growth strategies running the highly efficient data ontap operating system. virtual storage tier customers can increase the performance of a netapp storage controller using our virtual storage tiering, which is available with our flash cache modular cache expansion. virtual storage tiering lowers response times and increases input/output operations of solid state drives without storing additional data on them. using dynamic storage tiering, it also improves application performance for production workloads residing on any type of disk drive. dedupe capabilities reduce the i/o load on storage controllers to provide extreme scaling, especially useful with virtual- and cloud-based working sets. 6 table of contents v-series family our v-series family is a network-based virtualization solution that consolidates storage from different suppliers behind our data management interface, providing san and nas access to the data stored in heterogeneous storage arrays. with the v-series solution, customers are able to: transform existing heterogeneous, multivendor storage systems into a single storage pool; simplify storage provisioning and management with data ontap thin provisioning; and dramatically lower backup time, space, and cost with data ontap snapshot &reg; copies. the v-series family is compatible with the fas family of storage systems. data protection software products we offer a broad range of integrated data protection solutions for enterprise customer environments that can be tightly integrated with application offerings from partners to increase the speed and efficiency of data protection operations: snapshot technology enables near-instantaneous, space-efficient online backups of large datasets without affecting system performance; snaprestore &reg; technology uses stored snapshot backups to recover entire file systems or data volumes in seconds, regardless of capacity or number of files; snapvault &reg; and open systems snapvault technologies provide network- and storage-optimized disk-to-disk backup solutions; metrocluster uniquely combines array-based clustering with synchronous mirroring to deliver continuous availability and zero data loss; and snapmirror &reg; data replication solution provides disaster recovery protection for business-critical data matched to the recovery point objectives and recovery time objectives of customer environments. data retention and archive products to meet growing regulatory compliance demands faced by most enterprises, we offer a broad suite of products to help enable data permanence, accessibility, and privacy across a variety of different regulations such as the sarbanes-oxley act, 21 cfr part 11, sec rule 17a-4, and hipaa. cost-effective, resilient, and reliable storage architectures can be created utilizing netapp snaplock &reg; products. flash cache netapp flash cache modules optimize the performance of random read-intensive workloads such as file services and messaging. these intelligent read caches speed access to user data, reducing latency by a factor of 10 or more compared to disk drives. faster response times can translate into higher throughput for random i/o workloads. netapp flash cache gives users performance that is comparable to that of solid state disks (ssds) without the complexity of another storage tier. storage security products partnering with safenet, inc. enables us to provide a unified platform for data security and key management across ip san, nas, and tape backup environments. the platform combines wire-speed encryption, access controls, authentication, and automated key management to provide strong security for data at rest, while still allowing the capability to search compliant data for legal discovery purposes if the need arises. we also partner with brocade communications systems, inc. to provide advanced fabric services for sans. these high-speed, highly reliable hardware devices deliver fabric-based encryption services to secure data assets either selectively or comprehensively. 7 table of contents object storage netapp storagegrid &reg; is a proven object storage software solution designed to manage petabyte-scale, globally distributed repositories of images, video, and records for enterprises and service providers. netapp storagegrid provides tremendous scalability by eliminating the typical constraints of data containers in blocks and files. it supports billions of files or objects and petabytes of capacity in hybrid cloud storage architectures with a single global namespace. netapp storagegrid enables intelligent data management and secure content retention. data placement and secure content retention are optimized by aligning system and business process management metadata with a global policy engine that manages how data is stored, placed, governed, protected, and retrieved. content is protected from tampering using technologies such as digital fingerprints and encryption. netapp services our customers demand high availability and reliability of their storage infrastructure to ensure the successful ongoing operation of their businesses. netapp services are designed with this in mind. we provide professional services, global support solutions, and customer education and training to help customers most effectively manage their data. the professional services and support solutions we offer help our customers to resolve business problems, reduce costs, keep businesses up and running continuously, comply with regulations and policies, and improve overall operational results. we utilize a global, integrated model to provide consistent service delivery and global support during every phase of the customer engagement, including assessment and analysis, planning, design, installation, implementation, integration, optimization, ongoing support, and remote management and monitoring. services and support often involve phased rollouts, technology transitions and migrations, and other long-term engagements. sales, principal markets, and distribution channels we market and sell our products in numerous countries throughout the world, and we continue to make investments in our multiyear branding and awareness campaign to increase visibility of netapp in the broader it segment. our diversified customer base spans a number of customer segments and vertical markets, including energy, financial services, government, high technology, internet, life sciences and healthcare services, major manufacturing, media, entertainment, animation and video postproduction, and telecommunications. we focus primarily on the data management and storage markets, offering an array of solutions from our high-end products designed for large enterprise customers to entry-level products designed for midsized enterprise customers. to increase market share, we are focused on diversifying our multichannel distribution strategy. we are strengthening existing partnerships and investing in new partnerships with system integrators and cloud service providers. as of the end of fiscal 2011, our worldwide sales and marketing function consisted of 4,808 managers, sales representatives, and technical support personnel. we have field sales offices in more than 40 countries. we employ a multichannel distribution strategy, selling products and services to end users and service providers through a direct sales force and through channel partners, including value-added resellers, system integrators, original equipment manufacturers (oems), and distributors. during fiscal year 2011, sales through our indirect channels represented 73% of our total net revenues. sales to customers arrow electronics, inc. and avnet, inc., who are distributors, accounted for approximately 18% and 12% of our net revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2011; approximately 14% and 11% of our net revenues, respectively, for fiscal 2010; and approximately 11% and 10% of our net revenues, respectively, for fiscal 2009. information about our segment disclosures, foreign operations, and net sales attributable to our geographic regions is included in note 16 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 8 table of contents seasonality we have historically experienced a decline in revenues in the first quarter of our fiscal year, as the sales organization spends time developing new business after higher close rates in the fourth quarter, and because sales to european customers are historically weaker during the summer months. during the second quarter of our fiscal year, we have historically experienced increased sales, driven by the government sector, concurrent with the end of the u.s. federal government fiscal year in september, as well as an increase in business from european markets. we derive a majority of our revenue in any given quarter from orders booked in the same quarter. bookings and revenues typically follow intraquarter seasonality patterns weighted toward the back end of the quarter. backlog we manufacture products based on a combination of specific order requirements and forecasts of our customers demand. orders are generally placed by customers on an as-needed basis. a substantial portion of our products is sold on the basis of standard purchase orders that are cancellable prior to shipment without penalty. in certain circumstances, purchase orders are subject to change with respect to quantity of product or timing of delivery resulting from changes in customer requirements. our business is characterized by seasonal and intraquarter variability in demand, as well as short lead times and product delivery schedules. accordingly, backlog at any given time may not be a meaningful indicator of future revenue. manufacturing and supply chain we have outsourced manufacturing operations to third parties located in memphis, tennessee; olive branch, mississippi; livingston, scotland; schiphol airport, the netherlands; shanghai and longhua, china; singapore and guadalajara, mexico. these operations include materials procurement, commodity management, component engineering, test engineering, manufacturing engineering, product assembly, product assurance, quality control, final test, and global logistics. we rely on a limited number of suppliers for materials, as well as several key subcontractors for the production of certain subassemblies and finished systems. we use multiple vendors and have our products manufactured in a number of locations wherever possible to mitigate our supply chain risk. our strategy has been to develop close relationships with our suppliers, exchanging critical information and implementing joint quality programs. we also use contract manufacturers for the production of major subassemblies to improve our manufacturing continuity of business. this manufacturing strategy minimizes capital investments and overhead expenditures while creating flexibility for rapid expansion. we were awarded iso 9001 certification on may 29, 1997, and continue to be iso 9001 certified. we were awarded iso 14001 certification on december 8, 2004, and continue to be iso 14001 certified. research and development we conduct research and development activities in various locations throughout the world. in fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009, research and development expenses represented 13%, 14%, and 15% of our net revenues, respectively. these costs relate primarily to personnel and related costs incurred to conduct product development activities. although we develop many of our products internally, we may acquire technology through business combinations or through licensing from third parties when appropriate. we believe that technical leadership is essential to our success, and we expect to continue to commit substantial resources to research and development. competition we compete with many companies in the markets we serve, including companies that offer a broad spectrum of it products and services and others that offer a more limited set of storage and data management products or services. in the primary storage market, our system products and associated software portfolio mainly compete with storage system products and data management software from dell, emc, hitachi data systems, 9 table of contents hp, ibm, and oracle corporation. in the secondary storage market, which includes the disk-to-disk backup, archival and compliance, and business continuity segments, our solutions mainly compete against products from emc, hitachi data systems, hp, ibm, and oracle corporation. in vertical markets such as content storage, digital media, and graphics our top competitors include emc, hitachi data systems, and hp. in the it infrastructure and service provider markets, we compete primarily with emc, hitachi data systems, and hp. we compete with these companies based on market presence, breadth of product offerings, breadth of service offerings and price. some of these companies also compete by offering storage and data management products or services together with other it products or services, at minimal or no additional cost, in order to preserve or gain market share. we believe that we have a number of competitive advantages over many of these companies, including product innovation, the relationships we have with our customers, the deep integration we do with technology partners, and our collaboration with sales partners. we believe the advantages of our products include functionality, scalability, performance, flexibility, quality, and operational efficiency. we believe our advantage also includes the nature of the relationships we form with our customers and sales partners worldwide. we strive to deliver an outstanding experience in every interaction we have with our customers and partners through our product, service, and support offerings, which enable us to provide our customers with a full range of expertise before, during, and after their purchase from us or from one of our sales partners. an increase in industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. in addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, including some of our partners. it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. proprietary rights we currently rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions, and patents to protect our proprietary rights. we seek to protect our software, documentation, and other written materials under trade secret, copyright, and patent laws, which afford only limited protection. we have registered our netapp name and logo, network appliance tm name and logo, data ontap, datafabric &reg; , faserver &reg; , flexvol, filerview &reg; , nearstore &reg; , secureshare &reg; , snapdrive &reg; , snaplock, snapmanager &reg; , snapmirror, snaprestore, snapvault, wafl, and others as trademarks in the united states. other u.s. trademarks and u.s. registered trademarks are registered internationally as well. we will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks as appropriate. we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, resellers, customers, and suppliers. we currently have multiple u.s. and international patent applications pending and multiple u.s. patents issued. in addition, through various licensing arrangements, we receive certain rights to intellectual property of others. we expect to maintain current licensing arrangements and to secure licensing arrangements in the future, as needed and to the extent available on reasonable terms and conditions, to support continued development and sales of our products and services. some of these licensing arrangements require or might require royalty payments and other licensing fees. the amount of these payments and fees might depend on various factors, including but not limited to the structure of royalty payments; offsetting considerations, if any; and the degree of use of the licensed technology. the industry in which we compete is characterized by rapidly changing technology, a large number of patents, and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights, and we are exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims and protection of intellectual property rights. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we might be subject to increased competition that could materially and adversely affect our operating results. 10 table of contents environmental disclosure netapp is committed to minimizing environmental impact through use of netapp products, activities, and services. the netapp environmental management system (ems) provides the framework for setting, implementing, and reviewing the company environmental objectives and targets. the netapp ems supports: commitment to complying with relevant environmental legislation, regulations, and other customer and community requirements; prevention of pollution; conservation of natural resources; and continual improvement of our environmental management system. the netapp ems makes sure that activities, products, and services conform to the iso 14001 standard and environmental requirements. we are voluntarily measuring, monitoring, and publicly reporting our scope 1 and scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions. we have established employee commuter programs and education and awareness campaigns, and we continuously seek to optimize the energy efficiency of our buildings, labs, and data centers. at both the global and regional/state levels, various laws and regulations have been implemented or are under consideration to mitigate the effects of climate change caused by greenhouse gas emissions. environmental laws are complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more stringent over time. it is often difficult to estimate the future impact of environmental matters. based on current information and subject to the finalization of the proposed regulations, we believe that our primary risk related to climate change is the risk of increased energy costs. however, we do not anticipate being subject to a cap and trade system or any other mitigation measures that would be material to our operations in the near future. additionally, we have implemented many disaster recovery and business resiliency measures to mitigate the physical risks our facilities, business, and supply chain might face as a consequence of severe weather/climate-related phenomena such as earthquakes, floods, droughts, and other such natural occurrences. we are also subject to other federal, state, and local regulations regarding workplace safety and protection of the environment. various international, federal, state, and local provisions regulate the use and discharge of certain hazardous materials used in the manufacture of our products. failure to comply with environmental regulations in the future could cause us to incur substantial costs or subject us to business interruptions. we believe we are substantially compliant with all applicable environmental laws. all of our products meet the requirements for reach, weee, rohs, and china rohs compliance. we have maintained an environmental management system since december 2004 as well as iso 14001 certification at our corporate headquarters, which represents approximately 40% of our employee population and is one of the largest components of our corporate carbon footprint. as part of iso 14001 requirements, we set environmental performance goals around reducing energy use per square foot as well as waste generated on site (per employee). we also conduct an annual review and third-party verified audits of our operations, and we monitor environmental legislation and requirements to help make sure we are taking necessary measures to remain in compliance with applicable laws, not only in our operations but also for our products. working capital practices information about our working capital practices is included in item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation under the heading liquidity and capital resources and is incorporated herein by reference. 11 table of contents employees as of april 29, 2011, we had 10,212 employees, of which 4,808 were in sales and marketing, 3,146 were in research and development, 1,248 were in services and manufacturing operations, and 1,010 were in finance and administration. in addition, we added approximately 1,000 employees as a result of the recent acquisition of esg, which was completed on may 6, 2011. we have never had a work stoppage and consider relations with our employees to be good. competition for technical personnel in the industry in which we compete is intense. we believe that our future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate, and retain qualified personnel. to date, we believe that we have been successful in recruiting qualified employees, but there is no assurance that we will continue to be successful in the future. executive officers our executive officers and their ages as of may 24, 2011, are as follows: name age position thomas georgens 51 president, chief executive officer, director manish goel 46 executive vice president, products steven j. gomo 59 executive vice president, finance and chief financial officer matthew k. fawcett 43 senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary robert e. salmon 50 executive vice president, field operations thomas georgens is our president and chief executive officer. from february 2008 to august 2009, mr. georgens served as our president and chief operating officer and was responsible for all product operations and field operations worldwide. mr. georgens has also been a member of our board of directors since march 2008. mr. georgens joined netapp in october 2005 as executive vice president and general manager of enterprise storage systems and was named executive vice president of product operations where he served in that role from january 2007 to february 2008. before joining netapp, mr. georgens spent nine years at engenio, a former subsidiary of lsi corporation, with the last two years as chief executive officer. he has also served in various other positions, including president of lsi logic storage systems and executive vice president of lsi corporation. prior to lsi corporation, mr. georgens spent 11 years at emc in a variety of engineering and marketing positions. mr. georgens holds a bs degree and an me degree in computer and systems engineering from rensselaer polytechnic institute as well as an mba degree from babson college. manish goel was appointed the executive vice president of product operations in june 2009, overseeing all aspects of technology strategy and product engineering across the company product portfolio. mr. goel has held a variety of leadership roles in corporate development, sales, and business unit general management since he joined netapp in 2002. prior to netapp, mr. goel led corporate and business development activities for cadence design systems and copper mountain networks. prior to that, he spent four years as a strategy consultant for mckinsey and co. and six years as a systems software engineer. mr. goel holds a bs degree in electrical engineering from iit chennai and an mba degree in finance from the wharton school of business. steven j. gomo joined netapp in august 2002 as senior vice president of finance and chief financial officer. he was appointed executive vice president of finance and chief financial officer in october 2004. prior to joining the company, he served as chief financial officer for gemplus international s.a., headquartered in luxembourg from november 2000 to april 2002 and as chief financial officer of silicon graphics, inc., from february 1998 to august 2000. prior to february 1998, he worked at hewlett-packard company for 24 years in various positions, including financial management, corporate finance, general management, and manufacturing. mr. gomo currently serves on the board of sandisk corporation and enphase energy. mr. gomo holds an mba degree from santa clara university and a bs degree in business administration from oregon state university. 12 table of contents matthew k. fawcett joined the company in september 2010 as senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary. prior to joining netapp, from 1999 to august 2010, mr. fawcett served in various legal positions at jds uniphase corporation, including as senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary. prior to joining jdsu, mr. fawcett was counsel at fujitsu and worked in private practice at morrison &amp; foerster llp. fawcett holds a ba degree from the university of california at berkeley and a jd degree from the university of california at los angeles. robert e. salmon joined netapp in january 1994 and was appointed executive vice president, field operations in december 2005. mr. salmon has served as the company executive vice president of worldwide sales since september 2004. from august 2003 to september 2004, mr. salmon served as the company senior vice president of worldwide sales, and from may 2000 to august 2003, mr. salmon served as the company vice president of north american sales. prior to his tenure at netapp mr. salmon spent nearly 10 years with sun microsystems and data general corporation. mr. salmon graduated from california state university, chico with a bs degree in computer science. additional information our internet address is www.netapp.com. we make available through our internet web site our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. the sec maintains an internet site ( www.sec.gov ) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. the public also may read and copy these filings at the sec public reference room at 100 f street n.e., washington, dc 20549. information about this public reference room is available by calling (800) sec-0330. item 1a. risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. please see item 1. business forward looking statements of this annual report on form 10-k for a discussion of the forward-looking statements that are qualified by these risk factors. if any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. our operating results may be adversely affected by uncertain economic and market conditions. we are subject to the effects of general global economic and market conditions. challenging economic conditions worldwide or in certain geographic regions have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in the computer, storage, and networking industries at large, as well as the information technology (it) market, resulting in: reduced demand for our products as a result of constraints on it-related spending by our customers; increased price competition for our products from competitors; deferment of purchases and orders by customers due to budgetary constraints or changes in current or planned utilization of our systems; risk of excess and obsolete inventories; risk of supply constraints: excess facilities costs; higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenues; 13 table of contents negative impacts from increased financial pressures on customers, distributors and resellers; negative impacts from increased financial pressures on key suppliers or contract manufacturers; and potential discontinuance of product lines or businesses and related asset impairments. any of the above-mentioned factors could have a material and adverse effect on our business and financial performance. our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which could adversely impact our common stock price. we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. our operating results have been in the past, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly fluctuations as a result of numerous factors, some of which may contribute to more pronounced fluctuations during times of economic volatility. these factors include, but are not limited to, the following: fluctuations in demand for our products and services, in part due to changes in general economic conditions and specific economic conditions in the storage and data management market; a shift in federal government spending patterns; changes in sales and implementation cycles for our products and reduced visibility into our customers spending plans and associated revenues; the level of price and product competition in our target markets; the impact of economic uncertainty on our customers budgets and it spending capacity; our ability to maintain appropriate inventory levels and purchase commitments; our reliance on a limited number of suppliers, and industry consolidation in our supply base, which could subject us to periodic supply-and-demand, price rigidity, and quality issues with our components; the timing of bookings, the cancellation of significant orders and the management of, or fluctuations in, our backlog; product configuration and mix; the extent to which our customers renew their service and maintenance contracts with us; seasonality, such as our historical seasonal decline in revenues in the first quarter of our fiscal year and seasonal increase in revenues in the second quarter of our fiscal year, with the latter due in part to the impact of the u.s. federal government september 30 fiscal year end on the timing of its orders; linearity, such as our historical intraquarter bookings and revenue pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter total bookings and related revenue occur in the last month of the quarter; announcements and introductions of, and transitions to, new products by us or our competitors; deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements introduced by us or our competitors; our ability to develop, introduce, and market new products and enhancements in a timely manner; our ability to effectively integrate acquired products and technologies; our levels of expenditure on research and development and sales and marketing programs; our ability to effectively manage our operating expenses; adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates in the countries in which we do business; the dilutive impact of our $1.265 billion of 1.75% convertible senior notes due june 2013 (the notes ) and related warrants on our earnings per share; 14 table of contents excess or inadequate facilities; actual events, circumstances, outcomes and amounts differing from judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in determining the values of certain assets (including the amounts of valuation allowances), liabilities, and other items reflected in our consolidated financial statements; disruptions resulting from new systems and processes as we continue to enhance and scale our system infrastructure; disruptions resulting from reliance on third-party systems and processes during the transition period following the completion of mergers or other acquisitions; and future accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting rules, such as the increased use of fair value measures, changes in accounting standards related to revenue recognition, lease accounting, and financial instruments and the potential requirement that u.s. registrants prepare financial statements in accordance with international financial reporting standards (ifrs). due to such factors, operating results for future periods are difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. any of the foregoing factors, or any other factors discussed elsewhere herein, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. it is possible that in one or more quarters our results may fall below our forecasts and the expectations of public market analysts and investors. in such event, the trading price of our common stock would likely decrease. our revenues for a particular period are difficult to forecast, and a shortfall in revenues may harm our business and our operating results. our revenues for a particular period are difficult to forecast, especially in times of economic uncertainty. because the storage and data management market is rapidly evolving, our sales cycle varies substantially from customer to customer, and we rely increasingly on sales through our indirect channel partners, including value-added resellers, systems integrators, distributors, oems and strategic business partners. new product introductions and the transition from old to new products also increase the complexities of forecasting revenues. in addition, we derive a majority of our revenues in any given quarter from orders booked in the same quarter. bookings typically follow intra-quarter seasonality patterns weighted toward the back end of the quarter. if we do not achieve bookings in the latter part of a quarter consistent with our quarterly targets, our financial results will be adversely impacted. additionally, due to the complexities associated with revenue recognition, we may not accurately forecast our non-deferred and deferred revenues, which could adversely impact our results of operations. we use a pipeline system, a common industry practice, to forecast bookings and trends in our business. sales personnel monitor the status of potential business and estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision, the dollar amount of the sale and the products or services to be sold. these estimates are aggregated periodically to generate a bookings pipeline. our pipeline estimates may prove to be unreliable either in a particular quarter or over a longer period of time, in part because the conversion rate of the pipeline into revenues varies from customer to customer, can be difficult to estimate, and requires management judgment, and also because customers purchasing decisions are subject to delay, reduction or cancellation. small deviations from our forecasted conversion rate may result in inaccurate plans and budgets and could materially and adversely impact our business or our planned results of operations. in addition, the risks inherent in using a pipeline system are magnified with respect to indirect sales made through our channel partners because we have less control over, and visibility into, the sales process of our channel partners. economic uncertainties have caused, and may in the future again cause, consumers, businesses and governments to defer purchases in response to tighter budgets, credit, decreased cash availability and declining customer confidence. accordingly, future demand for our products could differ from our current expectations. 15 table of contents we have experienced periods of alternating growth and decline in revenues and operating expenses. if we are not able to successfully manage these fluctuations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly impacted. changing market conditions and economic uncertainty create a challenging operating environment for our business. it is critical that we maintain appropriate alignment between our cost structure and our expected growth and revenues, while at the same time, continuing to make strategic investments for future growth. our expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to future revenues, and a significant percentage of our expenses are fixed. we have a limited ability to quickly or significantly reduce our fixed costs, and if revenue levels are below our expectations, operating results will be adversely impacted. during periods of uneven growth, we may incur costs before we realize the anticipated related benefits, which could harm our operating results. we have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in engineering, sales, service and support, marketing programs and other functions to support and grow our business. we are likely to recognize the costs associated with these investments earlier than some of the related anticipated benefits (revenue growth), and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. conversely, if we are unable to effectively manage our resources and capacity during periods of increasing demand for our products, we could also experience an adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition and our customer relationships may be adversely impacted. if the storage and data management market fails to grow, or grows slower than we expect, our revenues will be adversely affected. also, even if spending in the it market increases, our revenues may not grow at the same pace. our gross margins have varied over time and may continue to vary, and such variation makes it more difficult to forecast our earnings. our total gross margins are impacted by the mix of our product, software entitlements and maintenance and services revenues. our product gross margins have been and may continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including: demand for storage and data management products; pricing actions, rebates, sales initiatives, discount levels, and price competition; changes in the mix between direct versus indirect and oem sales, particularly as a result of the recent acquisition of certain assets related to the engenio external storage systems business (esg) of lsi corporation (lsi), which is based on a lower gross margin oem business model; changes in customer, geographic, or product mix, including mix of configurations within products; the timing and amount of revenue recognized and deferred; new product introductions and enhancements; licensing and royalty arrangements; excess inventory levels or purchase commitments as a result of changes in demand forecasts or last time buy purchases; possible product and software defects as we transition our products; and the cost of components, contract manufacturing costs, quality, warranty, and freight. 16 table of contents changes in software entitlements and maintenance gross margins may result from various factors, such as: the size of the installed base of products under support contracts; the timing of technical support service contract renewals; and demand for and the timing of delivery of upgrades. changes in service gross margins may result from various factors, such as: the mix of customers; the size and timing of service contract renewals; spares stocking requirements to support new product introductions; the level of spending on our customer support infrastructure; the volume, cost and use of outside partners to deliver support services on our behalf; and product quality and serviceability issues. due to such factors, gross margins are subject to variation from period to period and are difficult to predict. an increase in competition and industry consolidation could materially and adversely affect our operating results. the storage and data management markets are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapidly changing technology. in the storage market, our primary and near-line storage system products and our associated software portfolio compete primarily with storage system products and data management software from emc (including its recent acquisition of isilon), hitachi data systems, hp, ibm, dell and oracle corporation. in the secondary storage market, which includes the disk-to-disk backup, compliance and business continuity segments, our solutions compete primarily against products from emc and oracle corporation. there has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years. we expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry, as companies become unable to maintain their competitive positions or continue operations and as customers demand more flexible business models and terms. we believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete for customers as sole-source vendors. in addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish strategic alliances among themselves or with third parties, including some of our partners. it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. we may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. competitive pressures we face could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. disruption of, or changes in, our distribution model could harm our sales. if we fail to develop and maintain strong relationships with our channel partners, or if our channel partners fail to effectively manage the sale of our products or services on our behalf, our revenues and gross margins could be adversely affected. we market and sell our storage data management solutions directly through our worldwide sales force and indirectly through channel partners such as value-added resellers, systems integrators, distributors, oems and strategic business partners, and we derive a significant portion of our revenues from these indirect channels. during fiscal 2011, revenues generated from sales through our indirect channel distribution accounted for 73% of our revenues, and we expect this percentage to continue to increase over time as we further develop these channels or acquire products distributed through indirect channels. in order for us to maintain or increase our revenues, we must effectively manage our relationships with channel partners. 17 table of contents several factors could result in disruption of or changes in our indirect channel distribution model, which could materially harm our revenues and gross margins, including the following: our indirect channel partners may compete directly with other channel partners or with our direct sales force. due to these conflicts, our indirect channel partners could stop or reduce their efforts in marketing our products. our indirect channel partners may demand that we absorb a greater share of the risks that their customers may ask them to bear; our indirect channel partners may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes and challenges in business conditions; and our indirect channel partners financial condition or operations may weaken. there is no assurance that we will be able to attract new indirect channel partners, retain these indirect channel partners or that we will be able to secure additional or replacement indirect channel partners in the future, especially in light of changes in end customer demand patterns and changes in available and competing technologies from competitors. the loss of one or more of our key indirect channel partners in a given geographic area could harm our operating results within that area, as qualifying and developing new indirect channel partners typically requires a significant investment of time and resources before acceptable levels of productivity are met. our inability to effectively establish, train, retain and manage our indirect channel partners could harm our sales. in addition, we depend on our indirect channel partners to comply with applicable regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions in which they operate. their failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. our oem relationship with ibm may not continue to generate significant revenues. in april 2005, we entered into an oem agreement with ibm, which enables ibm to sell ibm-branded solutions based on our unified solutions, including nearstore &reg; and v-series systems, as well as associated software offerings. in addition, by acquiring esg, we have assumed lsi rights under a second oem agreement with ibm, which enables ibm to sell certain esg solutions. while these agreements are part of our general strategy to expand our reach to more customers and into more countries, we do not have an exclusive relationship with ibm under either oem agreement, and there is no minimum commitment for any given period of time. therefore, our relationship with ibm may not continue to generate significant revenues or, in the case of the oem agreement related to esg, may not allow us to capture certain anticipated benefits of the esg acquisition. in addition, we have no control over the products that ibm selects to sell, or its release schedule and timing of those products; nor do we control its pricing. in the event that sales through our oem relationship with ibm increase, which we expect will occur as a result of the esg transaction, we may experience distribution channel conflicts between our direct sales force and the oem or among our channel partners. if we fail to minimize channel conflicts, or if our oem relationship does not continue to generate significant revenues, our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. a portion of our revenues is generated by large, recurring purchases from various customers, resellers and distributors. a loss, cancellation or delay in purchases by any of these parties has and in the future could negatively affect our revenues. during fiscal 2011, sales to distributors arrow electronics, inc. and avnet, inc. accounted for approximately 18% and 12%, respectively of our net revenues. we also have significant oem agreements with ibm, which, as described above, enable ibm to sell ibm-branded solutions based on our solutions, as well as an agreement with fujitsu technology solutions (fujitsu), which enables fujitsu to lease, sell, market and resell our 18 table of contents products to end users and fujitsu sales partners worldwide, to integrate our products into fujitsu bundled offerings, and to market our support services. the loss of orders from these, or any of our more significant customers, strategic partners, distributors or resellers could cause our revenues and profitability to suffer. we generally do not enter into binding purchase commitments with our customers for an extended period of time, and thus we may not be able to continue to receive large, recurring orders from these customers, resellers or distributors. for example, our reseller agreements generally do not require minimum purchases and our customers, resellers and distributors can stop purchasing and marketing our products at any time. unfavorable economic conditions may negatively impact our operations by affecting the solvency of our customers, resellers and distributors, or the ability of our customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. if the uncertainty in the economy continues, or conditions deteriorate, and our sales decline, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely impacted. because our expenses are based on our revenue forecasts, a substantial reduction or delay in sales of our products to, or unexpected returns from customers and resellers, or the loss of any significant customer or reseller, could harm our business. we expect that our largest customers in the future could be different from our largest customers today. end users could stop purchasing and indirect channel partners could stop marketing our products at any time. the loss of one or more of our key indirect channel partners or the failure to obtain and ship a number of large orders each quarter could harm our operating results. in addition, a change in the pricing practices of one or more of our large indirect channel partners could adversely affect our revenues and gross margins. the u.s. government has contributed to our revenue growth and has become an important customer for us. future revenues from the u.s. government are subject to shifts in government spending patterns. a decrease in government demand for our products could materially affect our revenues. in addition, our business could be adversely affected as a result of future examinations by the u.s. government. the u.s. government has become an important customer for the storage and data management market generally and for us in particular; however, government demand is unpredictable, and there can be no assurance that we will maintain or grow our revenues from the u.s. government. government agencies are subject to budgetary processes and expenditure constraints that could lead to delays or decreased capital expenditures in it spending. if the government or individual agencies within the government reduce or shift their capital spending patterns, our revenues and operating results may be harmed. in addition, selling our products to the u.s. government, whether directly or indirectly, also subjects us to certain regulatory requirements. for example, in april 2009, we entered into a settlement agreement with the united states of america, acting through the united states department of justice (doj) and on behalf of the general services administration (the gsa ) related to a dispute regarding our discount practices and compliance with the price reduction clause provisions of gsa contracts for certain specified prior years. failure to comply with u.s. government regulatory requirements by us or our reseller partners could subject us to fines and other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating results and financial position. if we are unable to maintain our existing relationships and develop new relationships with major strategic partners, our revenues may be impacted negatively. an element of our strategy to increase revenues is to strategically partner with major third-party software and hardware vendors to integrate our products into their products and also co-market our products with them. we have significant partner relationships with database, business application, backup management and server virtualization companies, including microsoft, oracle, sap, symantec and vmware. in january 2010, we announced an expansion of our collaboration with cisco and vmware, including a cooperative support arrangement, and in october 2010, we expanded our relationship with fujitsu technology solutions. a number 19 table of contents of these strategic partners are industry leaders that offer us expanded access to segments of the storage and data management market. there is intense competition for attractive strategic partners, and even if we can establish relationships with these or other partners, these partnerships may not generate significant revenues or may not continue to be in effect for any specific period of time. if these relationships are not maintained or fail to materialize as expected, we could experience lower than expected revenue growth, suffer delays in product development, or experience other operational difficulties. in addition, some of our partners, including oracle, cisco and vmware, are also partnering with other storage vendors which may increase the availability of competing solutions, harm our ability to continue as the vendor of choice for those partners and harm our ability to grow our business with those partners. we intend to continue to establish and maintain business relationships with technology companies to expand our marketing reach and accelerate the development of our storage and data management solutions. to the extent that we are unsuccessful in developing new relationships or maintaining our existing relationships, our future revenues and operating results could be negatively impacted. in addition, the loss of a strategic partner could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. our future financial performance depends on growth in the storage and data management markets. if the performance of these markets does not meet the expectations upon which we calculate and forecast our revenues, our operating results will be materially and adversely impacted. all of our products address the storage and data management markets. accordingly, our future financial performance will depend in large part on continued growth in the storage and data management markets and on our ability to adapt to emerging standards in these markets. the markets for storage and data management have been recently adversely impacted by the global economic uncertainty, and as a result of continued uncertainty, the markets may not grow as anticipated or may decline. additionally, emerging standards in these markets may adversely affect the unix &reg; , windows &reg; and the world wide web server markets upon which we depend. for example, we provide our open access data retention solutions to customers within the financial services, healthcare, pharmaceutical and government market segments, industries that are subject to various evolving governmental regulations with respect to data access, reliability and permanence (such as rule 17(a)(4) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended) in the united states and in the other countries in which we operate. if our products do not meet and continue to comply with these evolving governmental regulations in this regard, customers in these market and geographical segments will not purchase our products, and we will not be able to expand our product offerings in these market and geographical segments at the rates which we have forecasted. supply chain issues, including financial problems of contract manufacturers or component suppliers, or a shortage of adequate component supply or manufacturing capacity that increases our costs or causes a delay in our ability to fulfill orders, could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results, and our failure to estimate customer demand properly may result in excess or obsolete component supply, which could adversely affect our gross margins. the fact that we do not own or operate our manufacturing facilities and supply chain exposes us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, production costs and product supply, which could have a material adverse impact on the supply of our products and on our business and operating results. we rely on a limited number of suppliers for components utilized in the assembly of our products, which has and could subject us to future periodic supply constraints and price rigidity. in addition, pursuant to the terms of the asset purchase agreement we entered into with lsi in connection with the acquisition of certain assets related to esg, we have the right to place orders with contract manufacturers and suppliers through lsi and access lsi systems in order to help us manage the esg business for a period of time following the acquisition. financial problems of either contract manufacturers, component suppliers or other parties in our supply chain, including lsi, and reservation 20 table of contents of manufacturing capacity at our contract manufacturers by other companies, inside or outside of our industry, could either limit supply or increase costs of our products. qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing volume production is expensive and time-consuming, and disruption or termination of manufacturing capacity with respect to any contract manufacturer could negatively impact our ability to manufacture and sell our products. we intend to regularly introduce new products and product enhancements, which will require us to rapidly achieve volume production by coordinating with our contract manufacturers and suppliers. a reduction or interruption in supply; a significant increase in the price of one or more components; a failure to adequately procure inventory by our contract manufacturers; a failure to timely cancel, reschedule, or adjust our requirements based on our business needs; or a decrease in demand for our products could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition and could materially damage customer relationships. furthermore, as a result of binding price or purchase commitments with suppliers, we may be obligated to purchase components at prices that are higher than those available in the current market. in the event that we become committed to purchase components at prices in excess of the current market price when the components are actually used, our gross margins could decrease. as the demand for our products has increased, we have experienced, and may continue to experience tightening of supply of some components leading to longer lead times and component supply constraints, which has resulted in and in the future could continue to result in the delay of shipments. our business operations are subject to business interruptions and other events beyond our control. such events could make it difficult or impossible for us to receive components from our suppliers and create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. our acquisitions may disrupt our existing business and harm our results of operations. as part of our strategy, we are continuously evaluating opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that would complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets, or enhance our technical capabilities. in fiscal year 2011, we completed acquisitions of two technology companies, and on may 6, 2011, we completed the acquisition of certain assets related to esg. the acquisition and ongoing integration of new businesses into our business may adversely affect our operations or profitability. we may not achieve the anticipated cost savings and synergies or realize our estimated revenue, gross margin, profit or other financial projections or business objectives in a timely manner or at all due to a number of factors, including the following: the inability to successfully integrate the operations, technologies, products, personnel and business systems of the acquired companies; in the case of an asset purchase, the failure to acquire all of the assets necessary to operate the acquired business; the diversion of management attention from normal daily operations of the existing business; the loss of key employees of the acquired business could adversely impact our ability to manage the business and our ability to realize our financial forecasts; the inability to retain the customers and partners of acquired businesses following the acquisition; substantial transaction costs and accounting charges; and exposure to litigation related to acquisitions. acquisitions may also result in risks to our existing business, including: deterioration of our internal control over financial reporting as a result of inconsistencies between our standards, procedures and policies and those of the acquired business; reliance on the selling party processes, data, supply chain management and reporting during the transition period following the completion of an acquisition; 21 table of contents dilution of our current stockholders percentage ownership to the extent we issue new equity; assumption of additional liabilities; incurrence of additional debt or a decline in available cash; adverse effects to our financial statements, such as the need to incur restructuring charges; liability for intellectual property infringement and other litigation claims, which we may or may not be aware of at the time of acquisition; and creation of goodwill or other intangible assets that could result in significant future amortization expense or impairment charges. the failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of an acquisition may also result in impairment charges for goodwill and purchased intangible assets. for example, we have in the past discontinued certain products which were originally acquired through business acquisitions. additional or realized risks of this nature could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are exposed to the credit and non-payment risk of our customers, resellers, and distributors, especially during times of economic uncertainty and tight credit markets, which could result in material losses. most of our sales to customers are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of 30 days. while we monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, and seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe are reasonable, we may experience losses due to a customer inability to pay. beyond our open credit arrangements, we also have recourse and nonrecourse customer financing leasing arrangements using third-party leasing companies. under the terms of recourse leases, which are treated as off-balance sheet arrangements, we remain liable for the aggregate unpaid remaining lease payments to the third-party leasing company in the event of end-user customer default. we also offer financing arrangements whereby the end-user customer pays a fixed monthly amount plus a variable amount based on actual storage capacity used. these arrangements subject us to additional risk with respect to revenue recognition and profitability due to the uncertainties associated with the variable portion of the arrangements. in addition, from time to time we provide guarantees for a portion of other financing arrangements under which we could be called upon to make payments to our funding parties in the event of nonpayment by end-user customers. we expect demand for customer financing to continue. during periods of economic uncertainty, our exposure to credit risks from our customers increases. in addition, our exposure to credit risks of our customers may increase further if our customers and their customers or their lease financing sources are adversely affected by global economic conditions. in the past, there have been bankruptcies by our customers to whom we had extended open credit or provided lease financing arrangements, causing us to incur bad debt charges, and, in the case of financing arrangements, a loss of revenues. we may be subject to similar losses in future periods. any future losses could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. additionally, to the extent that the recent turmoil in the credit markets makes it more difficult for customers to obtain open credit or lease financing, those customers ability to purchase our products could be adversely impacted, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. 22 table of contents the market price for our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and will likely continue to do so in the future. the market price for our common stock has experienced substantial volatility in the past, and several factors could cause substantial fluctuation in the future. these factors include but are not limited to: fluctuations in our operating results compared to prior periods and forecasts; variations between our operating results and either the guidance we have furnished to the public or the published expectations of securities analysts; industry consolidation and the resulting perception of increased competition; economic developments in the storage and data management market as a whole; fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us; changes in analysts recommendations or projections; changes in our relationships with our suppliers, customers, channel and strategic partners; announcements of the completion or dissolution of strategic alliances within the industry; dilutive impacts of our convertible notes and related warrants; international conflicts and acts of terrorism; announcements of new products, applications, or product enhancements by us or our competitors; announcements related to planned or completed mergers or other acquisitions by us or our competitors; inquiries by the sec, nasdaq, law enforcement, or other regulatory bodies; and general market conditions, including recent global or regional economic uncertainties. in addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that has particularly affected the market prices of the equity securities of many technology companies. certain macroeconomic factors such as changes in interest rates, the market climate for the technology sector, and levels of corporate spending on it, could continue to have an impact on the trading price of our stock, and the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future. changes in market conditions have led, and in the future could lead, to charges related to the discontinuance of certain of our products and asset impairments. in response to changes in economic conditions and market demands, we may decide to strategically realign our resources and consider cost containment measures including restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise discontinuing certain products. any decision to limit investment in, dispose of, or otherwise exit products may result in the recording of charges to earnings, including inventory and technology-related or other intangible asset write-offs, workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, cancellation penalties or claims from third parties who were resellers or users of discontinued products, which would harm our operating results. our estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions. additionally, we are required to perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis, and between annual tests in certain circumstances when impairment indicators exist or if certain events or changes in circumstances have occurred. future goodwill impairment tests may result in charges to earnings, which could materially harm our operating results. 23 table of contents if we are unable to develop and introduce new products and respond to technological change, if our new products do not achieve market acceptance, if we fail to manage the interoperability and transition between our new and old products, or if we cannot provide the expected level of service and support for our new products, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. our future growth depends upon the successful development and introduction of new hardware and software products. due to the complexity of storage subsystems and storage security appliances and the difficulty in gauging the engineering effort required to produce new products, such products are subject to significant technical risks. in addition, our new products must respond to technological changes and evolving industry standards. if we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, or if such products do not achieve market acceptance, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. new or additional product introductions increase the complexities of forecasting revenues, and subject us to additional financial and operational risks. if they are not managed effectively, we could experience material risks to our operations, financial condition and business model. as new or enhanced products are introduced, we must attempt to successfully manage the interoperability and transition from older products in order to minimize disruption in customers ordering patterns, avoid excessive levels of older product inventories, and ensure that enough supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customers demands. as we enter new or emerging markets, we will likely increase demands on our service and support operations and may be exposed to additional competition. we may not be able to provide products, service and support to effectively compete for these market opportunities. due to the global nature of our business, risks inherent in our international operations could have a material adverse effect on our business. although a substantial portion of our business is located and conducted in the united states, a significant portion of our operations are located, and a significant portion of our revenues are derived, outside of the united states. during fiscal 2011, our international revenues accounted for 49% of our total revenues. a substantial portion of our products are manufactured outside of the u.s., and we have research and development and service centers overseas. accordingly, our business and our future operating results could be adversely affected by a variety of factors affecting our international operations, some of which are beyond our control, including regulatory, political, or economic conditions in a specific country or region, trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements, government spending patterns, and acts of terrorism and international conflicts. in addition, we may not be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. our international sales are denominated in u.s. dollars and in foreign currencies. an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products more expensive and therefore potentially less competitive in foreign markets. conversely, lowering our price in local currency may result in lower u.s.-based revenues. a decrease in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies could increase operating expenses in foreign markets. additionally, we have exposures to emerging market currencies, which can experience extreme volatility. we utilize forward and option contracts to hedge our foreign currency exposure associated with certain assets and liabilities as well as anticipated foreign currency cash flows on a short-term basis. all balance sheet hedges are marked to market through earnings every quarter. the time-value component of our cash flow hedges is recorded in earnings while all other gains and losses are marked to market through other comprehensive income until forecasted transactions occur, at which time such realized gains and losses are recognized in earnings. these hedges attempt to reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange movements. factors that could have a 24 table of contents negative impact on the effectiveness of our hedging program include inaccuracies in forecasting, widening interest rate differentials, and volatility in the foreign exchange market. our hedging strategies may not be successful and currency exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. additional risks inherent in our international business activities generally include, among others, longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in managing international operations. in addition, due to the global nature of our business, we are subject to complex legal and regulatory requirements in the united states and the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate and sell our products, including antitrust and anti-competition laws, rules and regulations, general import/export restrictions, and regulations related to data privacy. for example, united states government export restrictions impede our ability to sell our products to certain end users. the united states, through the bureau of industry security, places restrictions on the export of certain encryption technology. these restrictions may include: the requirement to have a license to export the technology; the requirement to have software licenses approved before export is allowed; and outright bans on the licensing of certain encryption technology to particular end users or to all end users in a particular country. our products are subject to various levels of export restrictions. these export restrictions could negatively impact our business. we are also subject to the potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than u.s. laws. such factors could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial position. moreover, in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures, or u.s. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act. there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, will comply with these policies, procedures, laws and/or regulations. any such violation could subject us to fines and other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in our effective tax rate or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we are taxed at lower rates as compared to the u.s. statutory tax rate; material differences between forecasted and actual tax rates as a result of a shift in the mix of pretax profits and losses by tax jurisdiction, our ability to use tax credits, or effective tax rates by tax jurisdiction that differ from our estimates; changing tax laws or related interpretations, accounting standards, regulations, and interpretations in multiple tax jurisdictions in which we operate, as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings; an increase in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including certain stock-based compensation expense, write-offs of acquired in-process research and development, and impairment of goodwill; the tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods; changes related to our ability to ultimately realize future benefits attributed to our deferred tax assets, including those related to other-than-temporary impairments; tax assessments resulting from income tax audits or any related tax interest or penalties could significantly affect our income tax provision for the period in which the settlements take place; and a change in our decision to indefinitely reinvest foreign earnings. 25 table of contents we receive significant tax benefits from sales to our non-u.s. customers. these benefits are contingent upon existing tax laws and regulations in the united states and in the countries in which our international operations are located. future changes in domestic or international tax laws and regulations could adversely affect our ability to continue to realize these tax benefits. we have not provided for united states federal and state income taxes or foreign withholding taxes that may result from future remittances of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. the obama administration and congress have announced several proposals to reform united states tax rules, including proposals that may result in a reduction or elimination of the deferral of united states income tax on our future unrepatriated earnings. should such anti-deferral provisions be enacted, our effective tax rate could be adversely affected. we are currently undergoing federal income tax audits in the united states and several foreign tax jurisdictions. the rights to some of our intellectual property (ip) are owned by certain of our foreign subsidiaries, and payments are made between u.s. and foreign tax jurisdictions relating to the use of this ip in a qualified cost sharing arrangement. in recent years, several other u.s. companies have had their foreign ip arrangements challenged as part of irs examinations, which has resulted in material proposed assessments and/or litigation with respect to those companies. during fiscal year 2009, we received notices of proposed adjustments from the irs in connection with a federal income tax audit of our fiscal 2003 and 2004 tax returns. we filed a protest with the irs in response to the notices of proposed adjustments and subsequently received a rebuttal from the irs examination team in response to our protest. in april 2011, we executed a closing agreement with the irs appeals office to close this examination. the notices of proposed adjustments in this audit focused primarily on issues relating to the timing and the amount of income recognized, deductions taken and on the level of cost allocations made to foreign operations during the audit years. the settlement of our 2003-2004 irs examination resulted in additional liability of $10.8 million, which is almost entirely offset by net operating loss carryforwards. as a result of the examination settlement, we have reduced our reserve for uncertain tax positions and recognized a net benefit of $21.1 million. during fiscal year 2010, the irs commenced the examination of our fiscal 2005 through 2007 federal income tax returns, and in addition, the california franchise tax board began the examination of our fiscal 2007 and 2008 california income tax returns. these audits are currently in progress. on september 17, 2010, the danish tax authorities issued a decision concluding that distributions declared in 2005 and 2006 from the company danish subsidiary, for which the company has not paid or accrued any taxes, are subject to danish at-source dividend withholding tax. the company has appealed this assessment decision with the danish national tax tribunal. if the ultimate determination of income taxes or at-source withholding taxes assessed under the current irs audits or under audits being conducted in any of the other tax jurisdictions in which we operate results in an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. our international operations currently benefit from a tax ruling concluded in the netherlands which expires on april 30, 2015 and results in a lower level of earnings subject to tax in the netherlands. if we are unable to negotiate a similar tax ruling upon expiration of the current ruling, our effective tax rate could increase and our operating results could be adversely affected. our effective tax rate could also be adversely affected by different and evolving interpretations of existing law or regulations, which in turn would negatively impact our operating and financial results as a whole. our effective tax rate could also be adversely affected if there is a change in international operations and how the operations are managed and structured. the price of our common stock could decline to the extent that our financial results are materially affected by an adverse change in our effective tax rate. 26 table of contents our leverage and debt service obligations and note conversion may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and earnings per share. as a result of the sale of our notes, we have a greater amount of debt than we have maintained in the past. in addition, we have various synthetic lease arrangements related to some of our facilities at our corporate headquarters in sunnyvale, california, and, subject to the restrictions in our existing and any future financing agreements, we may incur additional debt. our maintenance of higher levels of indebtedness could have adverse consequences including: impacting our ability to satisfy our obligations; increasing the portion of our cash flows from operations that may have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and making us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general. our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. we will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions and governmental regulations. furthermore, our operations may not generate sufficient cash flows to enable us to meet our expenses and service our debt. as a result, we may be required to repatriate funds from our foreign subsidiaries which could result in a significant tax liability to us. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or if we are unable to repatriate sufficient or any funds from our foreign subsidiaries, in order to meet our expenses and debt service obligations, we may need to enter into new financing arrangements to obtain the necessary funds, or we may be required to raise additional funds through other means. if we determine it is necessary to seek additional funding for any reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if funding is available, obtain it on acceptable terms. if we fail to make a payment on our debt, we could be in default on such debt, and this default could cause us to be in default on our other outstanding indebtedness. any conversion of our notes may cause dilution to our shareholders and to our earnings per share. if the price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price, initially $31.85 per share, the notes will cause an increase in diluted share count and result in lower reported earnings per share. for at least 20 trading days during the 30 consecutive trading days ended march 31, 2011, our common stock price exceeded the conversion threshold price of $41.41 per share set forth for these notes. accordingly, the notes are convertible at the holder option through june 30, 2011. based on the trading price of our common stock on april 29, 2011, we had approximately 16 million shares of common stock potentially issuable on conversion of our notes. upon conversion of any notes, we will deliver cash up to the principal amount of the notes and, with respect to any excess conversion value greater than the principal amount of the notes, shares of our common stock, which would result in dilution to our shareholders. the note hedges and warrant transactions that we entered into in connection with the sale of the notes may affect the trading price of our common stock. in connection with the issuance of the notes, we entered into privately negotiated convertible note hedge transactions with certain option counterparties (the counterparties), which are expected to offset the potential dilution to our common stock upon any conversion of the notes. at the same time, we also entered into warrant transactions with the counterparties pursuant to which we may issue shares of our common stock above a certain strike price. in connection with these hedging transactions, the counterparties may have entered into various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock or purchased shares of our common stock in secondary market transactions at or following the pricing of the notes. such activities may have had the effect of increasing the price of our common stock. the counterparties are likely to modify their hedge positions 27 table of contents from time to time prior to conversion or maturity of the notes by purchasing and selling shares of our common stock or entering into other derivative transactions. additionally, these transactions may expose us to counterparty credit risk for nonperformance. the effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock or the notes will depend, in part, on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock. in addition, if our stock price exceeds the strike price for the warrants, there could be additional dilution to our shareholders, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. in april 2010, we terminated our note hedge transaction with lehman brothers otc derivatives, inc. (lehman otc), which was a counterparty to 20% of our note hedges, as a result of the bankruptcy filing by lehman otc, which constituted an event of default under the note hedge. because we have decided not to replace this note hedge, we are subject to potential dilution on the unhedged portion of our notes upon conversion if on the date of conversion the per-share market price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price of $31.85. the terms of the notes, the rights of the holders of the notes and other counterparties to note hedges and warrants were not affected by the termination of this note hedge. the price of our common stock could also be affected by sales of our common stock by investors who view the notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that we expect to develop involving our common stock by holders of the notes. the hedging or arbitrage could, in turn, affect the trading price of the notes and warrants. future issuances of common stock related to our notes, warrants, stock options, restricted stock units, and our employee stock purchase plan may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and the notes. the conversion of some or all of our outstanding notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders to the extent we deliver common stock upon conversion of the notes. for at least 20 trading days during the 30 consecutive trading days ended march 30, 2011, our common stock price exceeded the conversion threshold price of $41.41 per share set forth for these notes. accordingly, the notes are convertible at the holder option through june 30, 2011. upon conversion of any notes, we will satisfy our obligation by delivering cash for the principal amount of the notes and shares of common stock, if any, to the extent the conversion value exceeds the principal amount. any new issuance of equity securities, including the issuance of shares upon conversion of the notes or the exercise of related warrants which are not offset by our note hedges, could dilute the interests of our then-existing stockholders, including holders who receive shares upon conversion of their notes, and could substantially decrease the trading price of our common stock and the notes. in addition, any sales in the public market of any common stock issuable upon such conversion or the exercise of warrants could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. as of april 29, 2011, eligible individuals under our stock option and restricted stock unit plans held options to purchase approximately 25 million shares of our common stock and a total of approximately 10 million restricted stock units, respectively. if all the outstanding options were exercised, the proceeds to the company would average approximately $27 per share. we also had 14 million shares of our common stock reserved for issuance under our stock plans with respect to equity awards that have not been granted. the exercise of all of the outstanding options and/or the vesting of all outstanding restricted shares and restricted stock units would dilute the interests of our then-existing stockholders, and any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such exercise could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. in addition, we have an employee stock purchase plan (espp) under which employees are entitled to purchase shares of our common stock at 85% of the fair market value at certain specified dates over a two-year period. as of april 29, 2011, we had approximately 4 million shares of our common stock available for issuance under the espp. the issuance of shares under the espp would dilute the interests of our then-existing stockholders, and any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such exercise could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. 28 table of contents we may issue equity securities in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations related to business strategy (including in connection with acquisitions, strategic alliances or other transactions), to increase our capital, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding warrants or options upon conversion of the notes, or for other reasons. we are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates; impairment of our investments could harm our financial results. at april 29, 2011, we had $5.2 billion in cash, cash equivalents, available-for-sale securities and restricted cash and investments. we invest our cash in a variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of investments in u.s. treasury securities, commercial paper, u.s. government agency bonds, corporate bonds, certificates of deposit, and money market funds. these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which have been exacerbated by unusual events such as the financial and credit crisis, and bankruptcy filings in the united states which have affected various sectors of the financial markets and led to global credit and liquidity issues. these securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax. investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate debt securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates. currently, we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. we may suffer losses if forced to sell securities that have experienced a decline in market value because of changes in interest rates. currently, we do not use financial derivatives to hedge our interest rate exposure. the fair value of our investments may change significantly due to events and conditions in the credit and capital markets. any investment securities that we hold or the issues comprising such securities could be subject to review for possible downgrade. any downgrade in these credit ratings may result in an additional decline in the estimated fair value of our investments. changes in the various assumptions used to value these securities and any increase in the markets perceived risk associated with such investments may also result in a decline in estimated fair value. on occasion, we make strategic investments in other companies, including private equity funds, which may decline in value and/or not meet desired objectives. the success of these investments depends on various factors over which we may have limited or no control. as of april 29, 2011, we had an investment with the carrying value of $1.3 million in a private equity fund. in the event of adverse conditions in the credit and capital markets, our investment portfolio may be impacted and we could determine that some or all of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment, which could adversely impact our financial position and operating results. a significant portion of our cash and cash equivalents balances are held overseas. if we are not able to generate sufficient cash domestically in order to fund our u.s. operations and strategic opportunities, and to service our debt, we may incur a significant tax liability in order to repatriate the overseas cash balances, or we may need to raise additional capital in the future. a portion of our earnings which is generated from our international operations is held and invested by certain of our foreign subsidiaries. these amounts are not freely available for dividend repatriation to the united states without triggering significant adverse tax consequences. as a result, if the cash generated by our domestic operations is not sufficient to fund our domestic operations, our broader corporate initiatives such as stock repurchases, acquisitions, and other strategic opportunities, and to service our outstanding indebtedness, we may 29 table of contents need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings, or we may need to obtain new credit facilities to the extent we choose not to repatriate our overseas cash. such additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all, and any new equity financings or offerings would dilute our current stockholders ownership. furthermore, lenders, particularly in light of the current challenges in the credit markets, may not agree to extend us new, additional or continuing credit. if adequate funds are not available, or are not available on acceptable terms, we may be forced to repatriate our foreign cash and incur a significant tax expense or we may not be able to take advantage of strategic opportunities, develop new products, respond to competitive pressures or repay our outstanding indebtedness. in any such case, our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely impacted. our synthetic leases are off-balance sheet arrangements that could negatively affect our financial condition and operating results. we have invested substantial resources in new facilities and physical infrastructure, which will increase our fixed costs. our operating results could be harmed if our business does not grow proportionately to our increase in fixed costs. we have various synthetic lease arrangements with bnp paribas leasing corporation as lessor (bnpplc) for our headquarters office buildings and land in sunnyvale, california. these synthetic leases qualify for operating lease accounting treatment under the accounting guidance for leases and are not considered variable interest entities under applicable accounting guidance. therefore, we do not include the properties or the associated debt on our consolidated balance sheets. our future minimum lease payments under these synthetic leases limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business by restricting the funds available for use in addressing such changes. if we are unable to grow our business and revenues proportionately to our increase in fixed costs, our operating results will be harmed. if we elect not to purchase the properties at the end of the lease term, we have guaranteed a minimum residual value to bnpplc. if the fair value of the properties declines below that guaranteed minimum residual value, our residual value guarantee would require us to pay the difference to bnpplc. as of april 29, 2011, the estimated fair value of the properties was approximately $35.8 million below the guaranteed minimum residual value, which we are accruing over the remaining term of the respective leases. any further decline in the fair value of the properties could adversely impact our cash flows, financial condition and operating results. as a result of excess capacity in our sunnyvale facilities, certain of our facilities subject to synthetic lease arrangements have been subleased or are vacant. these subleases will expire at various times through 2015 and some are at terms that do not generate sufficient sublease income to cover the carrying costs of these facilities. in addition, we may experience changes in our operations in the future that could result in additional excess capacity and vacant facilities. we will continue to be responsible for all carrying costs of these facilities under operating leases until such time as we can sublease these facilities or terminate the applicable leases based on the contractual terms of the operating lease agreements, and these costs may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. we are subject to restrictive and financial covenants in our synthetic lease arrangements. the restrictive covenants may restrict our ability to operate our business. our ongoing extension of credit under our synthetic lease arrangements are subject to continued compliance with financial covenants. if we do not comply with these restrictive and financial covenants or otherwise default under the arrangements, we may be required to repay any outstanding amounts or repurchase the properties which are subject to the synthetic lease arrangements. if we lose access to the synthetic lease arrangements, we may not be able to obtain alternative financing on acceptable terms, which could limit our operating flexibility. the agreements governing our synthetic lease arrangements contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to operate our business, including restrictions on our ability to: incur indebtedness; 30 table of contents incur indebtedness at the subsidiary level; grant liens; sell all or substantially all our assets: enter into certain mergers; change our business; enter into swap agreements; enter into transactions with our affiliates; and enter into certain restrictive agreements. as a result of these restrictive covenants, our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be restricted. we may also be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us, such as strategic acquisitions or joint ventures. our failure to comply with the restrictive and financial covenants could result in a default under our synthetic lease arrangements, which would give the counterparties thereto the ability to exercise certain rights, including the right to accelerate the amounts owed thereunder and to terminate the arrangements. in addition, our failure to comply with these covenants and the acceleration of amounts owed under synthetic lease arrangements could result in a default under the notes, which could permit the holders to accelerate the notes. if all of our debt is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available to repay such debt. we have credit exposure to our hedging counterparties. in order to minimize volatility in earnings associated with fluctuations in the value of foreign currency relative to the u.s. dollar, we utilize forward and option contracts to hedge our exposure to foreign currencies. as a result of entering into these hedging contracts with major financial institutions, we may be subject to counterparty nonperformance risk. should there be a counterparty default, we could be exposed to the net losses on the hedged arrangements or be unable to recover anticipated net gains from the transactions. funds associated with certain of our auction rate securities may not be accessible for more than 12 months and our auction rate securities may experience further other-than-temporary declines in value, which would adversely affect our earnings. auction rate securities (arss) held by us are securities with long-term nominal maturities, which, in accordance with investment policy guidelines, had credit ratings of aaa and aaa at time of purchase. interest rates for ars are reset through a dutch auction each month, which prior to february 2008 had provided a liquid market for these securities. all of our arss are backed by pools of student loans guaranteed by the u.s. department of education, and we believe the credit quality of these securities is high, based on this guarantee. however, liquidity issues in the global credit markets resulted in the failure of auctions for certain of our ars investments, with a par value of $71.3 million. for each failed auction, the interest rate resets to a maximum rate defined for each security and the ars continues to pay interest in accordance with its terms, although the principal associated with the ars will not be accessible until there is a successful auction or such time as other markets for ars investments develop or the final maturity of the individual securities. as of april 29, 2011, we determined there was a total decline in the fair value of our ars investments of approximately $6.2 million, of which we have recorded cumulative net temporary impairment charges of $4.1 million, and $2.1 million was recognized as an other-than-temporary impairment charge. in addition, we have classified all of our auction rate securities as long-term assets in our consolidated balance sheets at april 29, 2011 as our ability to liquidate such securities in the next 12 months is uncertain. although we currently have the 31 table of contents ability and intent to hold these ars investments until recovery in market value or until maturity, if current market conditions deteriorate, or the anticipated recovery in market values does not occur, we may be required to record additional impairment charges in future quarters. we intend, and have the ability, to hold these investments until the market recovers. we may need to undertake cost-reduction initiatives and restructuring initiatives in the future. we have previously recognized restructuring charges related to initiatives to realign our business strategies and resize our business in response to economic and market conditions, including those announced in february 2009 and december 2008. we may undertake future cost-reduction initiatives and restructuring plans that may adversely impact our operations and we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of our prior or any future restructurings. our business and operations are experiencing rapid growth and organizational change. if we fail to effectively manage such growth and change in a manner that preserves our reputation and the key aspects of our corporate culture, our business and operating results could be harmed. due to recent organic growth and acquisitions, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, rapid growth and organizational change, which has placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our management, operational and financial resources. our headcount has grown from approximately 8,300 employees on april 30, 2010 to over 11,000 employees following the esg acquisition in may 2011. we will incur significant expenditures and the allocation of valuable management resources to assimilate our additional human resources in a manner that preserves the key aspects of our corporate culture and enables us to maintain our reputation in the marketplace. if we do not effectively manage our growth and train, retain and manage our employee base, our corporate culture could be undermined, the quality of our products and customer service could suffer, and our reputation could be harmed, each of which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, as our headcount increases, our costs will also increase. our business will be harmed if our efforts to expand our organization and headcount are not accompanied by a corresponding increase in revenues. if we are unable to establish fair value for any undelivered element of a sales arrangement, all or a portion of the revenues relating to the arrangement could be deferred to future periods. in the course of our sales efforts, we often enter into multiple element arrangements that include software related elements consisting of non-essential software and undelivered software entitlements and maintenance. if we are required to change the pricing of our software-related elements through discounting, or otherwise introduce variability in the pricing of such elements, we may be unable to maintain vendor specific objective evidence of fair value of the undelivered elements of the arrangement, and would therefore be required to delay the recognition of all or a portion of the related arrangement. a delay in the recognition of revenues may cause fluctuations in our financial results and may adversely affect our operating margins. we are continually seeking ways to make our cost structure, business processes and systems more efficient, including moving activities from higher-cost to lower-cost owned locations, outsourcing certain business process functions and implementing new business information systems. problems with the execution of these activities could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. we continuously seek to make our cost structure and business processes more efficient. we are focused on increasing workforce flexibility and scalability, and improving overall competitiveness by leveraging our global capabilities, as well as external talent and skills worldwide. for example, certain engineering activities and projects that were formerly performed in the u.s. have been moved to lower cost international locations and we rely on partners or third-party service providers for the provision of certain business process functions and activities in it, human resources and accounting. 32 table of contents the challenges involved with moving or outsourcing activities include executing business functions in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures. we are also subject to increased business continuity risks as we increase our reliance on outsource providers. for example, we may no longer be able to exercise control over some aspects of the future development, support or maintenance of outsourced operations and processes, including the management and internal controls associated with those outsourced business operations and processes, which could adversely affect our business. if we are unable to effectively utilize or integrate and interoperate with external resources or if our partners or third party service providers experience business difficulties or are unable to provide business services as anticipated, we may need to seek alternative service providers or resume providing these business processes internally, which could be costly and time-consuming and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. in addition, we may not achieve the expected benefits of our business process improvement initiatives. we are currently implementing changes to our business information systems and processes and other it initiatives. these initiatives involve a large investment of capital and resources and significant changes to our current operating processes. failure to properly implement one or more of these initiatives, or an interruption in service or unavailability of our systems, could result in lost business and increased costs which could negatively impact our business, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to risks related to the provision of employee health care benefits and recent health care reform legislation. we use a combination of insurance and self-insurance for workers compensation coverage and health care plans. we record expenses under these plans based on estimates of the number and costs of expected claims, administrative costs and stop-loss premiums. these estimates are then adjusted each year to reflect actual costs incurred. actual costs under these plans are subject to variability depending primarily upon participant enrollment and demographics, the actual number and costs of claims made and whether and how much the stop-loss insurance we purchase covers the cost of these claims. in the event that our cost estimates differ from actual costs, we could incur additional unplanned health care costs which could adversely impact our financial condition. in march 2010, comprehensive health care reform legislation under the patient protection and affordable care act (hr 3590) and the health care education and affordability reconciliation act (hr 4872) was passed and signed into law. among other things, the health reform legislation includes guaranteed coverage requirements, eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions and annual and lifetime maximum limits, restricts the extent to which policies can be rescinded, and imposes new and significant taxes on health insurers and health care benefits. provisions of the health reform legislation become effective at various dates over the next several years. the department of health and human services, the national association of insurance commissioners, the department of labor and the treasury department have yet to issue necessary enabling regulations and guidance with respect to the health care reform legislation. due to the breadth and complexity of the health reform legislation, the lack of implementing regulations and interpretive guidance, and the phased-in nature of the implementation, it is difficult to predict the overall impact of the health reform legislation on our business over the coming years. possible adverse affects of the health reform legislation include reduced revenues, increased costs, exposure to expanded liability and requirements for us to revise the ways in which we conduct business or risk of loss of business. in addition, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. we depend on attracting and retaining qualified personnel. if we are unable to attract and retain such personnel, our operating results could be materially and adversely impacted. our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to identify, attract, motivate and retain qualified personnel. because our future success is dependent on our ability to continue to enhance and introduce new products, we are particularly dependent on our ability to identify, attract, motivate and retain qualified engineers with the requisite education, background and industry experience. competition for qualified employees, 33 table of contents particularly in silicon valley, can be intense. the loss of the services of a significant number of our employees, particularly our engineers, salespeople and key managers, could be disruptive to our development efforts or business relationships and could materially and adversely affect our operating results. a component of our strategy to hire and retain personnel consists of long-term compensation in the form of equity-based grants. we face increased risk of the inability to continue to offer equity if we are unable to obtain shareholder approval in light of increased shareholder activism, heightened focus on corporate compensation practices, and increased scrutiny of the dilutive effects of such equity compensation programs. such inability could adversely impact our ability to continue to attract and retain employees. in addition, because of the structure of our incentive compensation plans, we may be at increased risk of losing employees and other service providers at certain points in time. for example, the retention value of our compensation plans decreases after the payment of bonuses or the vesting of stock options, employee stock purchase rights or other equity compensation. as a result, employees may be more likely to leave us during periods following such payments or the vesting of such rights. the loss of services of a significant number of our key employees during a short period of time could be disruptive to our product development and sales efforts and adversely impact our business relationships and operating results. our business could be materially and adversely affected as a result of a natural disaster, terrorist acts or other catastrophic events. we depend on the ability of our personnel, raw materials, equipment and products to move reasonably unimpeded around the world. any political, military, terrorism, global trade, world health or other issue that hinders this movement or restricts the import or export of materials could lead to significant business disruptions. furthermore, any strike, economic failure or other material disruption caused by fire, floods, hurricanes, earthquakes, volcanoes, power loss, power shortages, environmental disasters, telecommunications or business information systems failures, break-ins and similar events could also adversely affect our ability to conduct business. if such disruptions result in cancellations of customer orders or contribute to a general decrease in economic activity or corporate spending on information technology, or directly impact our marketing, manufacturing, financial and logistics functions, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. in addition, our headquarters are located in northern california, an area susceptible to earthquakes. if any significant disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business could be impaired. undetected software errors, hardware errors, or failures found in new products may result in loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, which could increase our costs and reduce our revenues. product quality problems could lead to reduced revenues, gross margins and operating results. our products may contain undetected software errors, hardware errors or failures when first introduced or as new versions are released. despite testing by us and by current and potential customers, errors may not be found in new products until after commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in loss of or delay in market acceptance, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. in addition, if we fail to remedy a product defect, we may experience a failure of a product line, temporary or permanent withdrawal from a product or market, damage to our reputation, inventory costs or product reengineering expenses, and these occurrences could have a material impact on our revenues, gross margins and operating results. we may be subject to losses that may result from or are alleged to result from defects in our products, which could subject us to claims for damages, including consequential damages. 34 table of contents we are exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims and protection of intellectual property rights, which could adversely affect our operating results. we may be a party to lawsuits and other claims in the normal course of our business from time to time, including intellectual property, commercial, product liability, employment, class action, whistleblower and other litigation and claims, and governmental and other regulatory investigations and proceedings. litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. an unfavorable resolution of a particular lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may be subject to increased competition that could materially and adversely affect our operating results. our success depends significantly upon our proprietary technology. we rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions, and patents to protect our proprietary rights. we seek to protect our software, documentation and other written materials under trade secret, copyright and patent laws, which afford only limited protection. some of our u.s. trademarks are registered internationally as well. we will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks as appropriate. we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and with our resellers, strategic partners and customers. we currently have multiple u.s. and international patent applications pending and multiple u.s. patents issued. the pending applications may not be approved, and our existing and future patents may be challenged. if such challenges are brought, the patents may be invalidated. we may not be able to develop proprietary products or technologies that are patentable, and patents issued to us may not provide us with any competitive advantages and may be challenged by third parties. further, the patents of others may materially and adversely affect our ability to do business. in addition, a failure to obtain and defend our trademark registrations may impede our marketing and branding efforts and competitive position. litigation may be necessary to protect our proprietary technology. any such litigation may be time-consuming and costly. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the united states. our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate or our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products, or design around patents issued to us or other intellectual property rights of ours. we are subject to intellectual property infringement claims. we may, from time to time, receive claims that we are infringing third parties intellectual property rights. third parties may in the future, claim infringement by us with respect to current or future products, patents, trademarks or other proprietary rights. we expect that companies in the network storage and data management market will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. any such claims could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays, require us to redesign our products or enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. our business could be materially adversely affected by changes in regulations or standards regarding energy efficiency of our products and climate change issues. we continually seek ways to increase the energy efficiency of our products. recent analyses have estimated the amount of global carbon emissions that are due to information technology products. as a result, governmental and non-governmental organizations have turned their attention to development of regulations and standards to drive technological improvements and reduce such amount of carbon emissions. there is a risk that the development of these standards will not fully address the complexity of the technology developed by the it 35 table of contents industry or will favor certain technological approaches. depending on the regulations or standards that are ultimately adopted, compliance could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. climate change issues, energy usage and emissions controls may result in new environmental legislation and regulations, at any or all of the international, federal and state levels, that may unfavorably impact us, our suppliers, and our customers in how we conduct our business including the design, development, and manufacturing of our products. this could cause us to incur additional direct costs in complying with any new environmental regulations, as well as increased indirect costs resulting from our customers, suppliers or both incurring additional compliance costs that get passed on to us. these costs may adversely impact our operations and financial condition. our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted as a consequence of regulations or business trends such as: decreased demand for storage products that produce significant greenhouse gases; increased demand for storage products that produce lower emissions and are more energy efficient, and increased competition to develop such products; and reputational risk based on negative public perception of publicly reported data on our greenhouse gas emissions. our business is subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure, accounting and tax requirements that have increased both our costs and the risk of noncompliance. because our common stock is publicly traded, we are subject to certain rules and regulations of federal, state and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. these entities, including the public company accounting oversight board, the sec, and nasdaq, have implemented requirements and regulations and continue developing additional regulations and requirements in response to corporate scandals and laws enacted by congress, most notably the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. our efforts to comply with these regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue resulting in, increased general and administrative expenses and diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. we have completed our evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting for the fiscal year ended april 29, 2011 as required by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. although our assessment, testing and evaluation resulted in our conclusion that, as of april 29, 2011, our internal controls over financial reporting were effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. if our internal controls are ineffective in future periods, our business and reputation could be harmed. we may incur additional expenses and commitment of management time in connection with further evaluations, both of which could materially increase our operating expenses and accordingly reduce our operating results. on july 21, 2010, the president signed into law the dodd-frank act. many aspects of the dodd-frank act are subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on us. however, as we continue to implement changes in response to this new law and its associated regulations, we expect to incur additional operating costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. because new and modified laws, regulations, and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. this evolution may result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and additional costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to our disclosure and governance practices. 36 table of contents if a data center or other third party who relies on our products experiences a disruption in service or a loss of data, such disruption or loss could be attributed to the quality of our products, thereby causing financial or reputational harm to our business. third-party vendors, including data centers, saas, cloud computing and internet infrastructure and bandwidth providers rely on our products for their data storage needs. we exercise little control over how these third-party vendors use or maintain our products, and in some cases improper usage or maintenance could impair the performance of our products. a disruption in the services provided by these third-party vendors, or the loss of data stored by such vendors, could result in financial or reputational harm to our business to the extent that such disruption or loss is caused by, or perceived by our customers to have been caused by, defects in our products. moreover, the risk of reputational harm may be magnified and/or distorted through the rapid dissemination of information over the internet, including through news articles, blogs, chat rooms, and social media sites. security and privacy breaches may expose us to liability, and our reputation and business could suffer. we obtain and store sensitive data related to our employees, customers and partners, including intellectual property, books of record and personally identifiable information. it is critical to our business strategy that our infrastructure remains secure and is perceived by our employees, customers and partners to be secure. if our security measures are breached as a result of technical problems, third-party actions, employee error, or malfeasance, our reputation could be damaged and our business could suffer. changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse unexpected fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. a change in accounting standards or practices and varying interpretations of existing accounting pronouncements, such as the changes to revenue recognition standards that we recently adopted, the increased use of fair value measures, additional proposed changes to revenue recognition, lease accounting, financial instruments and other accounting standards, and the potential requirement that u.s. registrants prepare financial statements in accordance with international financial reporting standards (ifrs), could have a significant effect on our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. implementation of accounting regulations and related interpretations and policies, particularly those related to revenue recognition, could cause us to defer recognition of revenue or recognize lower revenue, which may affect our results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk related to fluctuations in interest rates, market prices, and foreign currency exchange rates. we use certain derivative financial instruments to manage these risks. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. all financial instruments are used in accordance with management-approved policies. market risk and market interest risk investment and interest income as of april 29, 2011, we had available-for-sale investments of $2.5 billion. our investment portfolio primarily consists of investments with original maturities at the date of purchase of greater than three months, which are classified as available-for-sale. these investments, consisting primarily of corporate bonds, commercial paper, u.s. government agency bonds, u.s. treasuries, and certificates of deposit, are subject to interest rate and interest income risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates from levels at april 29, 2011 would cause the fair value of these available-for-sale investments to decline by approximately $3.6 million. volatility in market interest rates over time will cause variability in our interest income. we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. our investment policy is to limit credit exposure through diversification and investment in highly rated securities. we further mitigate concentrations of credit risk in our investments by limiting our investments in the debt securities of a single issuer and by diversifying risk across geographies and type of issuer. we actively review, along with our investment advisors, current investment ratings, company specific events and general economic conditions in managing our investments and in determining whether there is a significant decline in fair value that is other-than-temporary. we will monitor and evaluate the accounting for our investment portfolio on a quarterly basis for additional other-than-temporary impairment charges. we are also exposed to market risk relating to our auction rate securities due to uncertainties in the credit and capital markets. as of april 29, 2011, we recorded cumulative temporary impairment charges of $4.5 million, offset by $0.4 million of unrealized gains related to these securities. the fair value of our auction rate securities may change significantly due to events and conditions in the credit and capital markets. these securities/issuers could be subject to review for possible downgrade. any downgrade in these credit ratings may result in an additional decline in the estimated fair value of our auction rate securities. changes in the various assumptions used to value these securities and any increase in the markets perceived risk associated with such investments may also result in a decline in estimated fair value. if current market conditions deteriorate, or the anticipated recovery in market values does not occur, we may be required to record additional unrealized losses in other comprehensive income (loss) or other-than-temporary impairment charges to earnings in future quarters. we intend, and have the ability, to hold these investments until the market recovers. we do not believe that the lack of liquidity relating to our portfolio investments will impact our ability to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures or other operating requirements. see note 9 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8; management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, liquidity and capital resources, in part ii, item 7; and risk factors in part i, item 1a of this annual report on form 10-k for a description of recent market events that may affect the value and liquidity of the investments in our portfolio that we held at april 29, 2011. lease commitments as of april 29, 2011, one of our four lease arrangements with bnpplc is based on a floating interest rate. the minimum lease payments will vary based on libor plus a spread. all of our leases have an initial term of five years, and we have the option to renew these leases for two consecutive five-year periods upon approval by bnpplc. a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rate from the level at april 29, 2011 would increase our lease payments on this one floating lease arrangement under the initial five-year term by an immaterial amount. we do not currently hedge against market interest rate increases. 69 table of contents convertible notes in june 2008, we issued $1.265 billion principal amount of 1.75% notes due 2013, of which $1.017 billion was allocated to debt and $0.248 billion was allocated to equity. holders may convert the notes prior to maturity upon the occurrence of certain circumstances, including, but not limited to: during the five business day period after any five consecutive trading day period in which the trading price of the notes for each day in this five consecutive trading day period was less than 98% of an amount equal to (i) the last reported sale price of our common stock multiplied by (ii) the conversion rate on such day; during any calendar quarter if the last reported sale price of our common stock for 20 or more trading days in a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter exceeds 130% of the applicable conversion price in effect for the notes on the last trading day of such immediately preceding calendar quarter; or upon the occurrence of specified corporate transactions under the indenture for the notes. the notes are convertible into the right to receive cash in an amount up to the principal amount and shares of our common stock for the conversion value in excess of the principal amount, if any, at an initial conversion rate of 31.4006 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of notes, subject to adjustment as described in the indenture governing the notes, which represents an initial conversion price of $31.85 per share. concurrent with the issuance of the notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions and separately, warrant transactions, to reduce the potential dilution from the conversion of the notes and to mitigate any negative effect such conversion may have on the price of our common stock. in fiscal 2010, we terminated the hedge transaction with a counterparty to 20% of our note hedges, and because we have decided not to replace the hedge, we are subject to potential dilution on the 20% unhedged portion of our notes upon conversion if on the date of conversion the per-share market price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price of $31.85. for at least 20 trading days during the 30 consecutive trading days ended march 31, 2011, our common stock price exceeded the conversion threshold price of $41.41 per share set forth for these notes. accordingly, the notes are convertible at the holder option through june 30, 2011, and the carrying value of the notes was classified as a current liability as of april 29, 2011. since the notes are convertible at the option of the holder and the principal amount is required to be paid in cash, the difference between the principal amount and the carrying value of these notes is reflected as convertible debt in mezzanine on our consolidated balance sheets as of april 29, 2011. the determination of whether or not the notes are convertible must continue to be performed on a quarterly basis. consequently, the notes may not be convertible in future quarters, and therefore may again be classified as long-term debt, if the contingent conversion thresholds are not met in such quarters. upon conversion of any notes, we deliver cash up to the principal amount of the notes and, with respect to any excess conversion value greater than the principal amount of the notes, shares of our common stock. as of april 29, 2011, shares issued related to the notes were minimal. based on the closing price of our common stock of $52.11 on april 29, 2011, the if-converted value of our notes exceeded their principal amount by approximately $834.3 million. the fair value of our notes is subject to interest rate risk, market risk and other factors due to the convertible feature. generally, the fair value of notes will increase as interest rates fall and/or our common stock price increases, and decrease as interest rates rise and/or our common stock price decreases. the interest and market value changes affect the fair value of our notes, but do not impact our financial position, cash flows, or results of operations due to the fixed nature of the debt obligations. we do not carry the notes at fair value, but present the fair value of the principal amount of our notes for disclosure purposes. as of april 29, 2011, the principal amount of our notes, which consists of the combined debt and mezzanine components, was $1.265 billion, and the total estimated fair value of such was $2.1 billion based on the closing trading price of $168 per $100 of our notes as of that date. 70 table of contents foreign currency exchange rate risk and foreign exchange forward contracts we hedge risks associated with foreign currency transactions to minimize the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on earnings. we utilize forward and option contracts to hedge against the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. all balance sheet hedges are marked to market through earnings every period. we also use foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge foreign currency forecasted transactions related to forecasted sales transactions. these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges under accounting guidance for derivatives and hedging. for cash flow hedges outstanding at april 29, 2011, the time-value component is recorded in earnings while all other gains or losses were included in other comprehensive income. we do not enter into foreign exchange contracts for speculative or trading purposes. in entering into forward and option foreign exchange contracts, we have assumed the risk that might arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts. we attempt to limit our exposure to credit risk by executing foreign exchange contracts with creditworthy multinational commercial banks. all contracts have a maturity of less than one year. the following table provides information about our currency forward contracts outstanding on april 29, 2011 and april 30, 2010 (in millions): april 29, 2011 april 30, 2010 currency local currency amount notional contract amount (usd) fair value (usd) local currency amount notional contract amount (usd) fair value (usd) forward contracts: euro 241.6 $ 357.7 $ 357.4 235.9 $ 313.5 $ 313.6 british pound sterling 55.0 91.7 91.9 49.7 76.0 75.9 canadian dollar 53.1 56.0 56.1 28.6 28.1 28.1 australian dollar 31.5 34.4 34.4 25.0 23.2 23.0 other n/a 52.6 52.5 n/a 43.6 43.6 71 table of contentsoverview netapp, inc. (netapp, we or us) is a leading provider of innovative storage systems and data management solutions that form the foundation for efficient and flexible it infrastructures. our storage systems help customers streamline operations and lower the cost associated with storing and managing their data. our unified fabric-attached storage (fas) platform offers the optimal storage platform for business applications, shared infrastructures, and cloud environments. our e-series systems, acquired from lsi corporation, provide the cost-effective, high-performance storage building blocks for value-added customization and big data workloads. we are a leading original equipment manufacturer (oem) storage provider with a 15-year track record of enabling oems to offer market-leading it and storage solutions that serve specific markets and customer requirements. 4 table of contents we were incorporated in 1992 and shipped the world first networked storage appliance one year later. since then, we have brought to market many innovations in storage and data management. our evolution can be attributed to our history of identifying and creating new markets and innovating around market transitions. these markets include: shared infrastructures. a market shift from traditional dedicated storage to shared storage in virtualized it infrastructures is well under way. virtualization allows organizations to separate applications and data from dedicated hardware so that the server, storage, and networking infrastructure can be shared and used more efficiently. our unified fas architecture is well suited for virtualized environments because it provides integrated data protection along with increased efficiency and flexibility. cloud. cloud-based infrastructure has become a business priority. clouds built on a netapp &reg; foundation have lower costs and provide operational efficiencies that allow it to respond more rapidly. our goal is to help organizations benefit from the efficiency and flexibility our products provide, whether they choose to deploy an on-premises (private) cloud solution or outsource to an external (public) cloud service provider. in order to meet customers needs for external cloud services, we have developed a global network of cloud service provider partners. our solutions for service providers accelerate the development and delivery of cloud services such as microsoft &reg; exchange as a service, microsoft &reg; sharepoint as a service, it infrastructure as a service, desktop as a service, storage as a service, and data protection as a service. business applications. our products and services are designed to meet the expansive requirements and demanding service levels of large enterprises and their mission-critical business applications. in addition, we bring our affordable, enterprise-proven technology to midsize enterprise businesses. we also design our products to satisfy the demands of high-performance computing and technical data center applications. to better meet the needs of our customers, we develop integrated solutions that optimize the performance of customers applications and their infrastructure in partnership with key industry leaders such as cisco systems, ibm, microsoft, oracle, sap, and vmware. we partner with industry leaders to create best-in-class solutions and to deliver and support them worldwide. we provide expert services and global support to maximize the value customers derive from our products and to maintain their systems. big data. we are now entering an era of big scale, in which the amount of data processed and stored by enterprises is stressing traditional storage architectures. customers require storage products and solutions that are optimized for these workloads such as: analytics. this solution area focuses on providing efficient analytics for extremely large datasets and turning data into high-quality information to facilitate deeper insights about the business for better and quicker decision making. bandwidth. this solution area focuses on obtaining better performance for high-performance workloads. content. this solution area focuses on satisfying the need to store, find, and access almost unlimited amounts of data for an indefinite amount of time. netapp product overview we offer two storage platforms, each engineered to serve different goals. our unified fas storage systems offer integrated protection and data management and built-in efficiency for virtualized, shared infrastructures and business applications. our e-series systems offer high-performance, reliable, scalable, and space-efficient storage the optimal platform for big data workloads and value-added customization. both platforms reflect our commitment to the principles of simplicity, innovation, and a dedication to customer and partner success. both platforms have a proven track record of reliability and performance, are highly cost efficient and provide flexibility for diverse workloads. 5 table of contents we believe that by providing greater efficiency and flexibility, our solutions help improve business productivity, performance, and profitability, while providing investment protection and enhanced asset utilization. our enterprise-class storage solutions are complemented by our services expertise to maximize the business benefits that customers gain from deploying our storage products. fas storage platform we offer highly available, scalable, and cost-effective storage solutions that incorporate our unified fas platform and the feature-rich functionality of our data ontap &reg; data and storage resource management software. data ontap software our fas and v-series storage solutions are based on data ontap, a highly scalable and flexible operating system (os) that concurrently supports any mix of storage area network (san) and network-attached storage (nas) environments. our unified storage software platform is compatible with unix &reg; , linux &reg; , windows &reg; , and web environments. it enables scalable storage that is always on and that provides superior operational efficiency to help manage data, application, and infrastructure growth. the data ontap os provides the foundation to build a shared storage infrastructure and an enterprise-wide data fabric for the full breadth of business applications and data storage and protection requirements. data ontap features scalability, secure multi-tenancy, and unification across protocols and disks. data ontap also unifies storage efficiency, data management, and data protection. we believe customers can benefit from these capabilities as they increasingly virtualize their application environments. our deduplication for primary and secondary storage, thin provisioning, and highly efficient hardware help maximize utilization while reducing data center footprint and lowering storage-related power and cooling consumption. a few of the technology features we offer with data ontap include: flexshare &reg; technology, which directs how storage system resources are used to deliver an appropriate level of service for each application; flexcache &reg; technology, which allows performance acceleration through the creation of read-only cached volumes on multiple storage controllers; multistore &reg; software, which allows partitioning of individual physical storage systems into multiple secure and separate logical partitions; and raid-dp &reg; , a standard data ontap feature that safeguards data from double disk failure. integrated with our wafl &reg; (write anywhere file layout) file system, raid-dp gives customers data protection plus high performance. storage efficiency our portfolio of efficiency technologies helps our customers reduce their storage spending and get more from the storage assets they already own. some of the efficiency technologies we offer include: flexvol &reg; technology, which provides for thin provisioning through virtual volumes, enabling storage architectures to be more efficient and achieve higher utilization using flexible volumes that do not require repartitioning of physical storage space; flexclone &reg; technology, which enables true data cloning using logical copies that do not require additional physical storage space and allows for instant replication of data volumes and datasets; and deduplication technology, which provides the ability to eliminate duplicate data within primary and secondary disk storage environments, resulting in greater efficiency and higher utilization of storage capacity. 6 table of contents storage management and application integration software netapp oncommand management software improves storage and service efficiency through functions that help customers control, automate, and analyze their shared storage infrastructures. our management software family of products provides a broad range of storage and data management tools to simplify it administration and enhance flexibility and productivity. we deliver differentiated products that support industry open standards and interfaces to deliver this value to customers. we tightly integrate our software with database and business application software from partners such as microsoft, oracle, sap, and vmware in order to optimize the performance of those applications on our storage systems. through data center automation tools, we give customers the ability to monitor service levels, manage performance, and support change management in complex enterprise san and nas environments. we help customers optimize shared infrastructures by supporting individual application performance, service level, and security needs even while the storage is shared across multiple applications. fas unified storage systems family our family of modular, scalable, highly available, unified storage systems streamlines, simplifies, and consolidates the storage layer. the fas6200, fas3200, and fas2000 series of fabric-attached storage systems are designed to consolidate all types of storage workloads, including primary and secondary data, as well as structured and unstructured data, across all key os platforms and network infrastructures. also, we unify storage access for all standard network protocols based on host bus adapter (hba) technology and standard internet protocol (ip) networks. all our fas systems are interoperable and provide common software services. we provide a data-in-place upgrade path that spans from entry-level platforms for smaller organizations all the way to high-end data center environments. our fas unified architecture supports both scale-up and scale-out growth strategies running the highly efficient data ontap operating system. virtual storage tier customers can increase the performance of our storage controller using our virtual storage tiering, which is available with our flash cache modular cache expansion. virtual storage tiering lowers response times and increases input/output (i/o) operations of disk drives without storing additional data on them. using dynamic storage tiering also improves application performance for production workloads residing on any type of disk drive. deduplication capabilities reduce the i/o load on storage controllers to provide extreme scaling, especially useful with virtual and cloud-based working sets. v-series family our v-series family is a network-based virtualization solution that consolidates storage from different suppliers behind our data management interface, providing san and nas access to the data stored in heterogeneous storage arrays. with the v-series solution, customers are able to: transform existing heterogeneous, multivendor storage systems into a single storage pool; simplify storage provisioning and management with data ontap thin provisioning; and dramatically lower backup time, space, and cost with data ontap snapshot copies. the v-series family is compatible with the fas family of storage systems. data protection software products the netapp integrated data protection portfolio offers a broad range of branded and partner-integrated solutions designed to increase the speed, simplicity, and efficiency of data protection operations in any environment from physical to shared it to cloud. this portfolio includes: snapshot technology, which enables near-instantaneous, space-efficient online backups of large datasets without affecting system performance; 7 table of contents snaprestore &reg; technology, which uses stored snapshot backups to recover entire file systems or data volumes in seconds, regardless of capacity or number of files; snapvault &reg; and open systems snapvault technologies, which provide network- and storage-optimized data movement for disk-to-disk backup; metrocluster , which uniquely combines array-based clustering with synchronous mirroring to deliver continuous availability and zero data loss; snapmirror &reg; data replication solution, which provides disaster recovery protection for business-critical data matched to the recovery point objectives and recovery time objectives of customer environments; netapp snapprotect &reg; , which manages netapp snapshot copies, replication, and tape from a single console to enable high-speed, modern backup solutions that solve longstanding data protection challenges; and netapp integrated backup solutions, which bring the speed and efficiency of netapp snapshot and replication to customers using our alliance partners backup solutions. symantec netbackup , commvault simpana, and syncsort data protection software can manage our data protection stack to accelerate operations without complicating management. data retention and archive products to meet growing regulatory compliance demands faced by most enterprises, we offer a broad suite of products to help enable data permanence, accessibility, and privacy to satisfy a variety of different regulations such as the sarbanes-oxley act, fda title 21 cfr part 11, sec rule 17a-4, and the health insurance portability and accountability act (hipaa). cost-effective, resilient, and reliable storage architectures can be created utilizing netapp snaplock &reg; products. flash cache netapp flash cache modules optimize the performance of random read intensive workloads such as file services and messaging. these intelligent read caches speed access to user data, reducing latency by a factor of 10 or more compared to disk drives. faster response times can translate into higher throughput for random i/o workloads. netapp flash cache gives users performance that is comparable to that of solid state disks (ssds) without the complexity of another storage tier. storage security products partnering with safenet, inc. enables us to provide a unified platform for data security and key management across ip san, nas, and tape backup environments. the platform combines wire-speed encryption, access controls, authentication, and automated key management to provide strong security for data at rest, while still allowing the capability to search compliant data for legal discovery purposes if the need arises. we also partner with brocade communications systems, inc. to provide advanced fabric services for sans. these high-speed, highly reliable hardware devices deliver fabric-based encryption services to secure data assets either selectively or comprehensively. big content solutions: storagegrid netapp storagegrid &reg; is a proven object storage software solution designed to manage petabyte-scale, globally distributed repositories of images, video, and records for enterprises and service providers. netapp storagegrid provides tremendous scalability by eliminating the typical constraints of data containers in blocks and files. it supports billions of files or objects and petabytes of capacity in hybrid cloud storage architectures with a single global namespace. 8 table of contents netapp storagegrid enables intelligent data management and secure content retention. data placement and secure content retention are optimized by aligning system and business process management metadata with a global policy engine that manages how data is stored, placed, governed, protected, and retrieved. content is protected from tampering using technologies such as digital fingerprints and encryption. other big content offerings include the netapp solution for archive as a service and netapp storagegrid healthcare solution. e-series storage platform e-series systems offer oems a high-performance, modular storage platform with flexible scalability, space-efficient density, and high reliability for their purpose-built solutions and value-added customizations. this combination makes e-series systems ideal for high-performance environments that are characterized by massive amounts of critical data and computing demands that require enterprise-class scalability and reliability. our server oems also take advantage of e-series attributes to deliver entry storage systems to their diverse customers. we also leverage the e-series platform to simplify the deployment of a hadoop big data infrastructure. we accelerate the time to value for a hadoop infrastructure and enable customers to scale their deployments more practically and predictably. working with an ecosystem of partners, we continue our commitment to industry standards and open sources, including the apache distribution of hadoop. we also leverage the e-series platform in the development of big bandwidth solutions for full-motion video, seismic processing, medical content management, and high-performance lustre solutions. netapp services our customers demand high availability and reliability of their storage infrastructure to ensure the successful ongoing operation of their businesses. our services are designed with this in mind. we provide professional services, global support solutions, and customer education and training to help customers most effectively manage their data. the professional services and support solutions we offer help our customers to resolve business problems, reduce costs, keep businesses up and running continuously, comply with regulations and policies, and improve overall operational results. we utilize a global, integrated model to provide consistent service delivery and global support during every phase of the customer engagement, including assessment and analysis, planning, design, installation, implementation, integration, optimization, ongoing support, and remote management and monitoring. services and support often involve phased rollouts, technology transitions and migrations, and other long-term engagements. sales, principal markets, and distribution channels we market and sell our products in numerous countries throughout the world, and we continue to make investments in our multiyear branding and awareness campaign to increase visibility of netapp in the broader it segment. our diversified customer base spans a number of customer segments and vertical markets, including energy, financial services, government, high technology, internet, life sciences and healthcare services, major manufacturing, media, entertainment, animation and video postproduction, and telecommunications. we focus primarily on the data management and storage markets, offering an array of solutions from our high-end products designed for large enterprise customers to entry-level products designed for midsized enterprise customers. to increase market share, we are focused on diversifying our multichannel distribution strategy. we are strengthening existing partnerships and investing in new partnerships with system integrators and cloud service providers. 9 table of contents as of the end of fiscal 2012, our worldwide sales and marketing function consisted of approximately 5,600 managers, sales representatives, and technical support personnel. we have field sales offices in more than 40 countries. we employ a multichannel distribution strategy, selling products and services to end users and service providers through a direct sales force and through channel partners, including value-added resellers, system integrators, oems, and distributors. during fiscal year 2012, sales through our indirect channels represented 78% of our total net revenues. sales to customers arrow electronics, inc. and avnet, inc., who are distributors, accounted for approximately 17% and 12% of our net revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2012; approximately 18% and 12% of our net revenues, respectively, for fiscal 2011; and approximately 14% and 11% of our net revenues, respectively, for fiscal 2010. information about our segment disclosures, foreign operations, and net sales attributable to our geographic regions is included in note 15 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements. seasonality we have historically experienced a decline in revenues in the first quarter of our fiscal year, as the sales organization spends time developing new business after higher close rates in the fourth quarter, and because sales to european customers are historically weaker during the summer months. during the second quarter of our fiscal year, we have historically experienced increased sales, driven by the government sector, concurrent with the end of the u.s. federal government fiscal year in september, as well as an increase in business from european markets. we derive a majority of our revenue in any given quarter from orders booked in the same quarter. bookings and revenues typically follow intraquarter seasonality patterns weighted toward the back end of the quarter. backlog we manufacture products based on a combination of specific order requirements and forecasts of our customers demand. orders are generally placed by customers on an as-needed basis. a substantial portion of our products is sold on the basis of standard purchase orders that are cancellable prior to shipment without penalty. in certain circumstances, purchase orders are subject to change with respect to quantity of product or timing of delivery resulting from changes in customer requirements. our business is characterized by seasonal and intraquarter variability in demand, as well as short lead times and product delivery schedules. accordingly, backlog at any given time might not be a meaningful indicator of future revenue. manufacturing and supply chain we have outsourced manufacturing operations to third parties located in memphis, tennessee; olive branch, mississippi; livingston, scotland; schiphol airport, the netherlands; szekesfehervar, hungary; shanghai and longhua, china; taoyuan city, taiwan; singapore; and guadalajara, mexico. these operations include materials procurement, commodity management, component engineering, test engineering, manufacturing engineering, product assembly, product assurance, quality control, final test, and global logistics. we rely on a limited number of suppliers for materials, as well as several key subcontractors for the production of certain subassemblies and finished systems. we use multiple vendors and have our products manufactured in a number of locations wherever possible to mitigate our supply chain risk. our strategy has been to develop close relationships with our suppliers, exchanging critical information and implementing joint quality programs. we also use contract manufacturers for the production of major subassemblies to improve our manufacturing continuity of business. this manufacturing strategy minimizes capital investments and overhead expenditures while creating flexibility for rapid expansion. we were awarded iso 9001 certification on may 29, 1997, and continue to be iso 9001 certified. we were awarded iso 14001 certification on december 8, 2004, and continue to be iso 14001 certified. 10 table of contents research and development we conduct research and development activities in various locations throughout the world. in fiscal 2012, 2011, and 2010, research and development expenses represented 13%, 13%, and 14% of our net revenues, respectively. these costs relate primarily to personnel and related costs incurred to conduct product development activities. although we develop many of our products internally, we might acquire technology through business combinations or through licensing from third parties when appropriate. we believe that technical leadership is essential to our success, and we expect to continue to commit substantial resources to research and development. competition we compete with many companies in the markets we serve, including companies that offer a broad spectrum of it products and services (full-stack vendors) and others that offer a more limited set of storage and data management products or services. in the primary storage market, our system products and associated software portfolio mainly compete with storage system products and data management software from dell, emc, hitachi data systems, hp, ibm, and oracle corporation. we compete against these same companies in the secondary storage market, which includes the disk-to-disk backup, archival and compliance, and business continuity segments. in markets such as cloud, big data, and converged infrastructure, our primary competitors include emc, hitachi data systems, hp, and ibm. in the healthcare, financial services, life sciences, and service provider markets, we compete primarily with emc, hitachi data systems, hp, and ibm. some of our competitors in the primary and secondary storage markets also offer their systems to oem customers. in addition, we compete in the oem market against products from dothill and xyratex. most full-stack vendors that sell storage started as server companies. their ability to monetize their storage investment is limited by their server market share because their primary sales strategy is to attach storage to their server sales. with such a cap on market opportunity, we expect that over time the server companies will have difficulty sustaining investment in storage and data management. however, most storage companies have multiple overlapping architectures. many of our competitors have multiple products that serve similar needs, resulting in multiple code bases that have to replicate the same functionality, diluting product development and management, current product engineering, and support costs and slowing their ability to innovate. we consider innovation and our technological partnerships to be our key differentiators. we are committed to being the best-in-class storage vendor and partnering with other industry leaders in delivering what we call the innovation stack. an innovation stack from best-in-class vendors gives customers the best applications and technologies available. to support our solutions for converged architectures, we offer a cooperative support model with our partners. in the oem market, we compete based on the total offering we provide our partners, which is focused on a commitment to their success. they choose us for our products, technology, training, and support through the sales and product lifecycles. we believe the advantages of our products include functionality, scalability, performance, flexibility, quality, and operational efficiency. we believe our advantage also includes the nature of the relationships we form with our customers and partners worldwide. we strive to deliver an outstanding experience in every interaction we have with our customers and partners through our product, service, and support offerings, which enable us to provide our customers with a full range of expertise before, during, and after their purchase. an increase in industry consolidation might result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. in addition, current and potential competitors have established or might establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, including some of our partners. it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors might emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. 11 table of contents proprietary rights we currently rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions, and patents to protect our proprietary rights. we seek to protect our software, documentation, and other written materials under trade secret, copyright, and patent laws, which afford only limited protection. we have registered our netapp name and logo, network appliance &reg; name and logo, data ontap, datafabric &reg; , flexvol, flexpod , filerview &reg; , nearstore &reg; , oncommand, secureshare &reg; , snapdrive &reg; , snaplock, snapmanager &reg; , snapmirror, snaprestore, snapvault, wafl, and others as trademarks in the united states. other u.s. trademarks and u.s. registered trademarks are registered internationally as well. we will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks as appropriate. we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, resellers, customers, and suppliers. we currently have multiple u.s. and international patent applications pending and multiple u.s. patents issued. in addition, through various licensing arrangements, we receive certain rights to intellectual property of others. we expect to maintain current licensing arrangements and to secure licensing arrangements in the future, as needed and to the extent available on reasonable terms and conditions, to support continued development and sales of our products and services. some of these licensing arrangements require or might require royalty payments and other licensing fees. the amount of these payments and fees might depend on various factors, including but not limited to the structure of royalty payments; offsetting considerations, if any; and the degree of use of the licensed technology. the industry in which we compete is characterized by rapidly changing technology, a large number of patents, and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights, and we are exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims and protection of intellectual property rights. also, if we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we might be subject to increased competition that could materially and adversely affect our operating results. environmental disclosure we are committed to the success of our customers and partners, to delivering value to our shareholders, and to positively affecting the communities where our employees work and live. we firmly believe that we can accomplish these objectives concurrently with our commitment to sustainability and environmental responsibility. we are committed to the prevention of pollution; efficient use of natural resources; and minimizing, relative to the growth of the company, the environmental impacts from our operations, products, and services, as well as to comply with laws and regulations related to these areas. our environmental management system provides the framework for setting, monitoring, and continuously improving our environmental goals and objectives. we are voluntarily measuring, monitoring, and publicly reporting our scope 1 and scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions. we have established employee commuter programs and education and awareness campaigns, and we continuously seek to optimize the energy efficiency of our buildings, labs, and data centers. at both the global and regional/state levels, various laws and regulations have been implemented or are under consideration to mitigate the effects of climate change caused by greenhouse gas emissions. environmental laws are complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more stringent over time. it is often difficult to estimate the future impact of environmental matters. based on current information and subject to the finalization of the proposed regulations, we believe that our primary risk related to climate change is the risk of increased energy costs. however, we do not anticipate being subject to a cap and trade system or any other mitigation measures that would be material to our operations in the near future. additionally, we have implemented disaster recovery and business resiliency measures to mitigate the physical risks our facilities, business, and supply chain might face as a consequence of severe weather/climate-related phenomena such as earthquakes, floods, droughts, and other such natural occurrences. 12 table of contents we are also subject to other federal, state, and local regulations regarding workplace safety and protection of the environment. various international, federal, state, and local provisions regulate the use and discharge of certain hazardous materials used in the manufacture of our products. failure to comply with environmental regulations in the future could cause us to incur substantial costs or subject us to business interruptions. we believe we are substantially compliant with all applicable environmental laws. all of our products meet the requirements for the registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemicals (reach); waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee); restriction of hazardous substances (rohs); and china rohs directives compliance. we have maintained an environmental management system since december 2004 as well as iso 14001 certification at our corporate headquarters, which represents approximately 25% of our employee population and is one of the largest components of our corporate carbon footprint. as part of iso 14001 requirements, we set environmental performance goals around reducing energy use per square foot as well as waste generated on site (per employee). we also conduct an annual review and third-party verified audits of our operations, and we monitor environmental legislation and requirements to help make sure we are taking necessary measures to remain in compliance with applicable laws, not only in our operations but also for our products. working capital practices information about our working capital practices is included in item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation, under the heading liquidity and capital resources and is incorporated herein by reference. employees as of april 27, 2012, we had 12,149 employees, of which 5,569 were in sales and marketing, 3,957 were in research and development, 1,524 were in services and manufacturing operations, and 1,099 were in finance and administration. we have never had a work stoppage and consider relations with our employees to be good. competition for technical personnel in the industry in which we compete is intense. we believe that our future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate, and retain qualified personnel. to date, we believe that we have been successful in recruiting qualified employees, but there is no assurance that we will continue to be successful in the future. executive officers our executive officers and their ages as of may 22, 2012, are as follows: name age position thomas georgens 52 president and chief executive officer nicholas r. noviello 43 executive vice president and chief financial officer robert e. salmon 51 executive vice president, field operations manish goel 47 executive vice president, product operations matthew k. fawcett 44 senior vice president and general counsel thomas georgens has been the company president and chief executive officer since august 2009. from february 2008 to august 2009, mr. georgens served as our president and chief operating officer and was responsible for all product operations and field operations worldwide. mr. georgens has also been a member of our board of directors since march 2008. mr. georgens joined netapp in october 2005 as executive vice president and general manager of enterprise storage systems and served as our executive vice president of product operations from january 2007 to february 2008. before joining the company, mr. georgens spent nine years in various roles at lsi corporation, an electronics design company, and its subsidiaries, including chief 13 table of contents executive officer of engenio, president of lsi logic storage systems and executive vice president of lsi logic. prior to engenio, mr. georgens spent 11 years at emc corporation, a computer storage and data management company, in a variety of engineering and marketing positions. mr. georgens holds a b.s. degree and an m.e. degree in computer and systems engineering from rensselaer polytechnic institute as well as an m.b.a. degree from babson college. nicholas r. noviello was appointed executive vice president and chief financial officer in january 2012, overseeing the company finance, customer leasing, workplace resources, and investor relations functions. mr. noviello joined netapp in january 2008 as vice president, finance and controller. he was named senior vice president finance and corporate controller in april 2008, and senior vice president finance and global controller in november 2010. before joining netapp, mr. noviello spent eight years at honeywell international, where he was chief financial officer of two global business units, managed investor relations, and was a leader on the corporate mergers and acquisitions team. prior to honeywell, mr. noviello led mergers and acquisitions for monarch dental corporation for two years and spent seven years at pricewaterhousecoopers in mergers and acquisitions transaction services, tax, and audit. mr. noviello holds a bs degree in business administration from boston university and an ms degree in taxation from fairleigh dickinson university, and he is a certified public accountant. robert e. salmon joined netapp in january 1994 and was appointed executive vice president, field operations in december 2005. mr. salmon has served as the company executive vice president of worldwide sales since september 2004. from august 2003 to september 2004, mr. salmon served as our senior vice president of worldwide sales, and from may 2000 to august 2003, mr. salmon served as our vice president of north american sales. prior to his tenure at netapp, mr. salmon spent nearly 10 years with sun microsystems, a supplier of network computing systems, and data general corporation, a manufacturer of multi-user computer systems. mr. salmon graduated from california state university, chico with a bs degree in computer science. manish goel was appointed the executive vice president, of product operations in june 2009, overseeing all aspects of technology strategy and product engineering across our product portfolio. mr. goel has held a variety of leadership roles in corporate development, sales, and business unit general management since he joined netapp in 2002. prior to netapp, mr. goel led corporate and business development activities for cadence design systems, an electronic design automation company, from february 1998 to may 1999, and copper mountain networks, a developer of digital subscriber line (dsl) products, from may 1999 to october 2001. prior to that, he spent four years as a strategy consultant for mckinsey and co. and six years in sales operations and software engineering roles. mr. goel holds a bs degree in electrical engineering from iit chennai and an mba degree in finance from the wharton school of business. matthew k. fawcett joined the company in september 2010 as senior vice president and general counsel. prior to joining netapp, from 1999 to august 2010, mr. fawcett served in various legal positions at jds uniphase corporation, an optical components company, including as senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary. prior to joining jdsu, mr. fawcett was counsel at fujitsu and worked in private practice at morrison &amp; foerster llp. fawcett holds a ba degree from the university of california at berkeley and a jd degree from the university of california at los angeles. additional information our internet address is www.netapp.com. we make available through our internet web site our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish them to, the sec. the sec maintains an internet site ( www.sec.gov ) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. the public also may read and copy these filings at the sec public reference room at 100 f street n.e., washington, dc 20549. information about this public reference room is available by calling (800) sec-0330. 14 table of contents item 1a. risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. please see item 1. business forward looking statements of this annual report on form 10-k for a discussion of the forward-looking statements that are qualified by these risk factors. if any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. our operating results may be adversely affected by uncertain economic and market conditions. we are subject to the effects of general global economic and market conditions. challenging economic conditions worldwide or in certain geographic regions, such as the continuing fiscal challenges in the united states and europe, have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in the computer, storage, and networking industries at large, as well as the information technology (it) market, resulting in: reduced demand for our products as a result of constraints on it-related spending by our customers; risk of supply constraints, such as the risks related to the flooding in thailand; increased price competition for our products from competitors; deferment of purchases and orders by customers due to budgetary constraints or changes in current or planned utilization of our systems; risk of excess and obsolete inventories; excess facilities costs; higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenues; negative impacts from increased financial pressures on customers, distributors and resellers; negative impacts from increased financial pressures on key suppliers or contract manufacturers; and potential discontinuance of product lines and related asset impairments. any of the above-mentioned factors could have a material and adverse effect on our business and financial performance. our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which could adversely impact our common stock price. we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. our operating results have been in the past, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly fluctuations as a result of numerous factors, some of which may contribute to more pronounced fluctuations during times of economic volatility. these factors include, but are not limited to, the following: fluctuations in demand for our products and services, in part due to changes in general economic conditions and specific economic conditions in the storage and data management market; a shift in government spending patterns, particularly in light of continued worries about government debt levels and spending; changes in sales and implementation cycles for our products and reduced visibility into our customers spending plans and associated revenues; the level of price and product competition in our target markets; 15 table of contents the impact of economic uncertainty on our customers budgets and it spending capacity; our ability to maintain appropriate inventory levels and purchase commitments; our reliance on a limited number of suppliers, and industry consolidation in our supply base, which could subject us to periodic supply-and-demand, price rigidity, and quality issues with our components; our ability to maintain product quality generally; the timing and type of bookings, the cancellation of significant orders and the management of, or fluctuations in, our backlog; product configuration and mix; the extent to which our customers renew their service and maintenance contracts with us; seasonality, such as our historical seasonal decline in revenues in the first quarter of our fiscal year and seasonal increase in revenues in the second quarter of our fiscal year, with the latter due in part to the impact of the u.s. federal government september 30 fiscal year end on the timing of its orders; linearity, such as our historical intra-quarter bookings and revenue pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter total bookings and related revenue occur in the last month of the quarter; announcements and introductions of, and transitions to, new products by us or our competitors; deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements introduced by us or our competitors; our ability to develop, introduce, and market new products and enhancements in a timely manner; our ability to effectively integrate acquired products and technologies; our levels of expenditure on research and development and sales and marketing programs; our ability to effectively manage our operating expenses; adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates in the countries in which we do business; the dilutive impact of our $1.265 billion of 1.75% convertible senior notes due june 2013 (the notes ) and related warrants on our earnings per share; excess or inadequate facilities; actual events, circumstances, outcomes and amounts differing from judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in determining the values of certain assets (including the amounts of valuation allowances), liabilities, and other items reflected in our consolidated financial statements; disruptions resulting from new systems and processes as we continue to enhance and scale our system infrastructure; disruptions resulting from reliance on third-party systems and processes during the transition period following the completion of mergers or other acquisitions; and future accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting rules, such as the increased use of fair value measures, changes in accounting standards related to revenue recognition, lease accounting, and financial instruments and the potential requirement that u.s. registrants prepare financial statements in accordance with international financial reporting standards (ifrs). due to such factors, operating results for future periods are difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. any of the foregoing factors, or any other factors discussed elsewhere herein, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. it is possible that in one or more quarters our results may fall below our forecasts and the expectations of public market analysts and investors. in such event, the trading price of our common stock would likely decrease. 16 table of contents our revenues for a particular period are difficult to forecast, and a shortfall in revenues may harm our business and our operating results. our revenues for a particular period are difficult to forecast, especially in times of economic uncertainty. because the storage and data management market is rapidly evolving, our sales cycle varies substantially from customer to customer, and we rely increasingly on sales through our indirect channel partners, including value-added resellers, systems integrators, distributors, original equipment manufacturers (oems) and strategic business partners. new product introductions and the transition from old to new products also increase the complexities of forecasting revenues. in addition, we derive a majority of our revenues in any given quarter from orders booked in the same quarter. bookings typically follow intra-quarter seasonality patterns weighted toward the back end of the quarter. if we do not achieve bookings in the latter part of a quarter consistent with our quarterly targets, our financial results will be adversely impacted. additionally, due to the complexities associated with revenue recognition, we may not accurately forecast our non-deferred and deferred revenues, which could adversely impact our results of operations. we use a pipeline system, a common industry practice, to forecast bookings and trends in our business. sales personnel monitor the status of potential business and estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision, the dollar amount of the sale and the products or services to be sold. these estimates are aggregated periodically to generate a bookings pipeline. our pipeline estimates may prove to be unreliable either in a particular quarter or over a longer period of time, in part because the conversion rate of the pipeline into revenues varies from customer to customer, can be difficult to estimate, and requires management judgment, and also because customers purchasing decisions are subject to delay, reduction or cancellation. small deviations from our forecasted conversion rate may result in inaccurate plans and budgets and could materially and adversely impact our business or our planned results of operations. in addition, the risks inherent in using a pipeline system are magnified with respect to indirect sales made through our channel partners because we have less control over, and visibility into, the sales process of our channel partners. economic uncertainties have caused, and may in the future again cause, consumers, businesses and governments to defer purchases in response to tighter budgets, credit, decreased cash availability and declining customer confidence. accordingly, future demand for our products could differ from our current expectations. supply chain and logistics issues, including financial problems of contract manufacturers or component suppliers, or a shortage of adequate component supply or manufacturing capacity that increases our costs or causes a delay in our ability to fulfill orders, could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results, and our failure to estimate customer demand properly may result in excess or obsolete component supply, which could adversely affect our gross margins. the fact that we do not own or operate our manufacturing facilities, supply chain and logistics exposes us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, production costs and product supply, which could have a material adverse impact on the supply of our products and on our business and operating results. we rely on a limited number of suppliers for components utilized in the assembly of our products, including certain single source suppliers, which has and could subject us to future price rigidity, periodic supply constraints, and the inability to produce our products. if our third-party manufacturers or suppliers experience strikes, protests or other labor unrest, or are subject to lawsuits, injunctions or other legal challenges, there may be delays, interruptions or permanent impairment in the ability of such manufacturers and suppliers to ship products to us, or such manufacturers and suppliers may incur increased costs, any of which could impact our business and harm our operating results, liquidity and financial condition. for instance, several of our disk drive suppliers with operations in thailand were impacted by the october 2011 flooding, which affected those suppliers ability to manufacture a sufficient number of drives in order to meet the demands of their customers, including us. in addition, certain suppliers also increased prices for 17 table of contents available drives. drive supply shortages and pricing complexities could materially and adversely affect our supply chain, customer relationships and results of operations. qualifying new contract manufacturers and commencing volume production is expensive and time-consuming, and disruption or termination of manufacturing capacity with respect to any contract manufacturer could negatively impact our ability to manufacture, sell and ship our products. we intend to regularly introduce new products and product enhancements, which will require us to rapidly achieve volume production by coordinating with our contract manufacturers and suppliers. a reduction or interruption in supply; a significant increase in the price of one or more components; a failure to adequately procure inventory by our contract manufacturers; a failure to timely cancel, reschedule, or adjust our requirements based on our business needs; perceived or real problems with product quality control; or a decrease in demand for our products could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition and could materially damage customer relationships. furthermore, as a result of binding price or purchase commitments with suppliers, we may be obligated to purchase components at prices that are higher than those available in the current market. in the event that we become committed to purchase components at prices in excess of the current market price when the components are actually used, our gross margins could decrease. as the demand for our products has increased, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, tightening of supply of some components leading to longer lead times and component supply constraints, which has resulted in and in the future could continue to result in the delay of shipments. our business operations are subject to business interruptions and other events beyond our control. such events could make it difficult or impossible for us to receive components from our suppliers and create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. we have experienced periods of alternating growth and decline in revenues and operating expenses. if we are not able to successfully manage these fluctuations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly impacted. changing market conditions and economic uncertainty create a challenging operating environment for our business. it is critical that we maintain appropriate alignment between our cost structure and our expected growth and revenues, while at the same time, continuing to make strategic investments for future growth. our expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to future revenues, and a significant percentage of our expenses are fixed. we have a limited ability to quickly or significantly reduce our fixed costs, and if revenue levels are below our expectations, operating results will be adversely impacted. during periods of uneven growth, we may incur costs before we realize the anticipated related benefits, which could harm our operating results. we have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in engineering, sales, service and support, marketing programs and other functions to support and grow our business. we are likely to recognize the costs associated with these investments earlier than some of the related anticipated benefits, such as revenue growth, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. conversely, if we are unable to effectively manage our resources and capacity during periods of increasing demand for our products, we could also experience an adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition and our customer relationships may be adversely impacted. if the storage and data management market fails to grow, or grows slower than we expect, our revenues will be adversely affected. our gross margins have varied over time and may continue to vary, and such variation makes it more difficult to forecast our earnings. our total gross margins are impacted by the mix of our product, software entitlements and maintenance and services revenues. 18 table of contents our product gross margins have been and may continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including: demand for storage and data management products; pricing actions, rebates, sales initiatives, discount levels, and price competition; changes in the mix between direct versus indirect and oem sales, each of which has a different gross margin structure; changes in customer, geographic, or product mix, including mix of configurations within products; the timing and amount of revenue recognized and deferred; new product introductions and enhancements; licensing and royalty arrangements; excess inventory levels or purchase commitments as a result of changes in demand forecasts or last time buy purchases; possible product and software defects as we transition our products; and the cost of components, contract manufacturing costs, quality, warranty, and freight. changes in software entitlements and maintenance gross margins may result from various factors, such as: the size of the installed base of products under support contracts; the timing of technical support service contract renewals; and demand for and the timing of delivery of upgrades. changes in service gross margins may result from various factors, such as: the mix of customers; the size and timing of service contract renewals; spares stocking requirements to support new product introductions; the level of spending on our customer support infrastructure; the volume, cost and use of outside partners to deliver support services on our behalf; and product quality and serviceability issues. due to such factors, gross margins are subject to variation from period-to-period and are difficult to predict. an increase in competition and industry consolidation could materially and adversely affect our operating results. the storage and data management markets are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapidly changing technology. we compete with many companies in the markets we serve, including companies that offer a broad spectrum of it products and services (full-stack vendors) and others that offer a more limited set of storage and data management products or services. in the primary storage market, our system products and associated software portfolio mainly compete with storage system products and data management software from dell, emc, hitachi data systems, hp, ibm, and oracle corporation. we compete against these same companies in the secondary storage market, which includes the disk-to-disk backup, archival and compliance, and business continuity segments. in markets such as cloud, big data, and converged infrastructure, our primary competitors include emc, hitachi data systems, hp, and ibm. in the healthcare, financial services, life sciences, and service provider markets, we compete primarily with emc, hitachi data systems, hp, and ibm. some of our competitors in the primary and secondary storage markets also offer their systems to oem customers. in addition, we compete in the oem market against products from dothill and xyratex. 19 table of contents there has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years. we expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry, as companies become unable to maintain their competitive positions or continue operations and as customers demand more flexible business models and terms. we believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete for customers as sole-source vendors. in addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish strategic alliances among themselves or with third parties, including some of our partners. it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. we may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. competitive pressures we face could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. disruption of, or changes in, our distribution model could harm our sales. if we fail to develop and maintain strong relationships with our channel partners, or if our channel partners fail to effectively manage the sale of our products or services on our behalf, our revenues and gross margins could be adversely affected. we market and sell our storage data management solutions directly through our worldwide sales force and indirectly through channel partners such as value-added resellers, systems integrators, distributors, oems and strategic business partners, and we derive a significant portion of our revenues from these indirect channels. during fiscal 2012, revenues generated from sales through our indirect channel accounted for 78% of net revenues. in order for us to maintain or increase our revenues, we must effectively manage our relationships with channel partners. several factors could result in disruption of or changes in our indirect channel distribution model, which could materially harm our revenues and gross margins, including the following: our indirect channel partners may compete directly with other channel partners or with our direct sales force. due to these conflicts, our indirect channel partners could stop or reduce their efforts in marketing our products. our indirect channel partners may demand that we absorb a greater share of the risks that their customers may ask them to bear; our indirect channel partners may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes and challenges in business conditions; and our indirect channel partners financial condition or operations may weaken. the loss of one or more of our key indirect channel partners in a given geographic area could harm our operating results within that area, as qualifying and developing new indirect channel partners typically requires a significant investment of time and resources before acceptable levels of productivity are met. there is no assurance that we will be able to attract new indirect channel partners, retain these indirect channel partners or that we will be able to secure additional or replacement indirect channel partners in the future, especially in light of continued changes in end customer demand patterns and changes in available and competing technologies from competitors. our inability to effectively establish, train, retain and manage our indirect channel partners could harm our sales. in addition, we depend on our indirect channel partners to comply with applicable regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions in which they operate. their failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. 20 table of contents our oem relationships may not continue to generate significant revenues. we have oem relationships with ibm, teradata, fujitsu technology solutions (fujitsu), oracle and dell, which enable these oems to market and sell their branded solutions based on our unified solutions, as well as associated software offerings, or in the case of fujitsu, enables fujitsu to lease, sell, market and resell our products to end users and fujitsu sales partners worldwide, to integrate our products into fujitsu bundled offerings, and to market our support services. while these arrangements are part of our general strategy to expand our reach to more customers and into more countries, we do not have exclusive relationships with our oems, and there is no minimum commitment for any given period of time. therefore, our relationships with these oems may not continue to generate significant revenues. in addition, we have no control over the products that the oems select to sell, or their release schedule and timing of those products; nor do we control their pricing. as our oem relationships increase, we may experience distribution channel conflicts between our direct sales force and the oems or among our channel partners. if we fail to minimize channel conflicts, or if our oem relationships do not continue to generate significant revenues, our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. a portion of our revenues is generated by large, recurring purchases from various customers, resellers and distributors. a loss, cancellation or delay in purchases by any of these parties has and in the future could negatively affect our revenues. during fiscal 2012, sales to distributors arrow electronics, inc. and avnet, inc. accounted for approximately 17% and 12%, respectively, of our net revenues. we also have significant oem agreements, as discussed above. the loss of orders from these, or any of our more significant customers, strategic partners, distributors or resellers could cause our revenues and profitability to suffer. we generally do not enter into binding purchase commitments with our customers for extended periods of time, and thus we may not be able to continue to receive large, recurring orders from these customers, resellers or distributors. for example, our reseller agreements generally do not require minimum purchases and our customers, resellers and distributors can stop purchasing and marketing our products at any time. unfavorable economic conditions may negatively impact our operations by affecting the solvency of our customers, resellers and distributors, or the ability of our customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. if the uncertainty in the economy continues, or conditions deteriorate, and our sales decline, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely impacted. because our expenses are based on our revenue forecasts, a substantial reduction or delay in sales of our products to, or unexpected returns from customers and resellers, or the loss of any significant customer or reseller, could harm our business. we expect that our largest customers in the future could be different from our largest customers today. end users could stop purchasing and indirect channel partners could stop marketing our products at any time. the loss of one or more of our key indirect channel partners or the failure to obtain and ship a number of large orders each quarter could harm our operating results. in addition, a change in the pricing practices of one or more of our large indirect channel partners could adversely affect our revenues and gross margins. 21 table of contents the u.s. government has contributed to our revenue growth and has become an important customer for us. future revenues from the u.s. government are subject to shifts in government spending patterns. a decrease in government demand for our products could materially and adversely affect our revenues. in addition, our business could be adversely affected by claims that we or a channel partner have failed to comply with regulatory and contractual requirements applicable to sales to the u.s. government. the u.s. government has become an important customer for the storage and data management market generally and for us in particular; however, government demand is unpredictable, and there can be no assurance that we will maintain or grow our revenues from the u.s. government. government agencies are subject to budgetary processes and expenditure constraints that could lead to delays or decreased capital expenditures in it spending, particularly in light of recent and continued uncertainties about u.s. spending levels. if the government or individual agencies within the government reduce or shift their capital spending patterns, our revenues and operating results may be harmed. selling our products to the u.s. government, whether directly or through channel partners, also subjects us to certain regulatory and contractual requirements. failure to comply with these requirements by either us or our channel partners could subject us to investigations, fines, and other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating results and financial position. as an example, the united states department of justice ( doj ) and the general services administration ( gsa ) have in the past pursued claims against and financial settlements with it vendors, including us and several of our competitors and channel partners, under the false claims act and other statutes related to pricing and discount practices and compliance with certain provisions of gsa contracts for sales to the federal government. the doj and gsa continue to pursue actively such claims. we are currently discussing contract compliance matters regarding sales made through a channel partner with the doj and gsa, and have produced documents and met with the doj and gsa on several occasions. if the doj determines to initiate an action against a channel partner and/or us, we would be subject to litigation, could be subjected to fines and penalties. we could also decide to pay the doj a settlement, either to avoid a potential action or in termination of an action. violations of certain regulatory and contractual requirements could also result in us being suspended or debarred from future government contracting. any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating results and financial position. certain of our products are subject to u.s. export control laws and other laws affecting the countries in which our products and services may be sold, distributed, or delivered; if we were found to have violated these laws, the consequences of such a determination could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. due to the global nature of our business, we are subject to import and export restrictions and regulations, including the export administration regulations (ear) administered by the commerce department bureau of industry and security (bis) and the trade and economic sanctions regulations administered by the treasury department office of foreign assets control (ofac). the u.s., through the bis and ofac, places restrictions on the sale or export of certain products and services to certain countries and persons. violators of these export control and sanctions laws may be subject to significant penalties, which may include significant monetary fines, criminal proceedings against us and our officers and employees, a denial of export privileges, and suspension or debarment from selling products to the federal government. we take a variety of precautions to prevent our products from being shipped to u.s.-sanctioned targets, however, our products could be shipped to those targets by third parties, including potentially our channel partners, despite such precautions. for instance, media reports starting in november 2011 have asserted that certain of our products were delivered to syria through a third-party possibly in violation of u.s. export-control laws. we have publicly stated that we condemn any use of our products or technologies in syria, we have notified the u.s. government that we are conducting a review of these allegations, and intend to cooperate fully with any government inquiry. we have met with u.s. government officials, provided information at their request, and expressed our willingness to continue cooperating with any further inquiry or investigation. if we become the subject of an investigation and are found to have violated u.s. export control laws, we may be subject to various penalties available under the laws, any of 22 table of contents which could have a material and adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial position. even if we are not found to have violated such laws, the political and media scrutiny surrounding any governmental investigation of us could cause us significant financial and reputational harm and distract senior executives from managing our normal day-to-day operations, which could have a material and adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial position. if we are unable to maintain our existing relationships and develop new relationships with major strategic partners, our revenues may be impacted negatively. an element of our strategy to increase revenues is to strategically partner with major third-party software and hardware vendors to integrate our products into their products and also co-market our products with them. we have significant partner relationships with database, business application, backup management and server virtualization companies, including microsoft, cisco, oracle, sap, symantec and vmware. a number of these strategic partners are industry leaders that offer us expanded access to segments of the storage and data management market. there is intense competition for attractive strategic partners, and even if we can establish relationships with these or other partners, these partnerships may not generate significant revenues or may not continue to be in effect for any specific period of time. if these relationships are not maintained or fail to materialize as expected, we could experience lower than expected revenue growth, suffer delays in product development, or experience other operational difficulties. in addition, some of our partners, including oracle, cisco and vmware, are also partnering with other storage vendors, which may increase the availability of competing solutions, harm our ability to continue as the vendor of choice for those partners and harm our ability to grow our business with those partners. we intend to continue to establish and maintain business relationships with technology companies to expand our marketing reach and accelerate the development of our storage and data management solutions. to the extent that we are unsuccessful in developing new relationships or maintaining our existing relationships, our future revenues and operating results could be negatively impacted. in addition, the loss of a strategic partner could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. our future financial performance depends on growth in the storage and data management markets. if the performance of these markets do not meet the expectations upon which we calculate and forecast our revenues or if we are unable to develop product offerings that meet the future demands of these markets, our operating results will be materially and adversely impacted. all of our products address the storage and data management markets. accordingly, our future financial performance will depend in large part on continued growth in the storage and data management markets and on our ability to adapt to emerging standards in these markets. the markets for storage and data management have been recently adversely impacted by the global economic uncertainty, and as a result of continued uncertainty, the markets may not grow as anticipated or may decline. also, even if spending in the it market increases, our revenues may not grow at the same pace. additionally, emerging standards in these markets may adversely affect the unix &reg; , windows &reg; and the world wide web server markets upon which we depend. for example, we provide our open access data retention solutions to customers within the financial services, healthcare, pharmaceutical and government market segments, industries that are subject to various evolving governmental regulations with respect to data access, reliability and permanence (such as rule 17(a)(4) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended) in the u.s. and in the other countries in which we operate. if our products do not meet and continue to comply with these evolving governmental regulations in this regard, customers in these market and geographical segments will not purchase our products, and we will not be able to expand our product offerings in these market and geographical segments at the rates which we have forecasted. 23 table of contents the market price for our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and will likely continue to do so in the future. the market price for our common stock has experienced substantial volatility in the past, and several factors could cause substantial fluctuation in the future. these factors include but are not limited to: fluctuations in our operating results compared to prior periods and forecasts; variations between our operating results and either the guidance we have furnished to the public or the published expectations of securities analysts; industry consolidation and the resulting perception of increased competition; economic developments in the storage and data management market as a whole; fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us; changes in analysts recommendations or projections; changes in our relationships with our suppliers, customers, channel and strategic partners; announcements of the completion or dissolution of strategic alliances within the industry; dilutive impacts of our convertible notes and related warrants; international conflicts and acts of terrorism; announcements of new products, applications, or product enhancements by us or our competitors; announcements related to planned or completed mergers or other acquisitions by us or our competitors; inquiries by the sec, nasdaq, law enforcement, or other regulatory bodies; and general market conditions, including recent global or regional economic uncertainties. in addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that has particularly affected the market prices of the equity securities of many technology companies. certain macroeconomic factors such as the market climate for the technology sector, changes in interest rates, and levels of corporate spending on it, could continue to have an impact on the trading price of our stock, and the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future. if we are unable to develop and introduce new products and respond to technological change, if our new products do not achieve market acceptance, if we fail to manage the interoperability and transition between our new and old products, or if we cannot provide the expected level of quality, service and support for our new products, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. our future growth depends upon the successful development and introduction of new hardware and software products. due to the complexity of storage subsystems and storage security appliances and the difficulty in gauging the engineering effort required to produce new products, such products are subject to significant technical and quality control risks. in addition, our new products must respond to technological changes and evolving industry standards. if we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, or if such products do not achieve market acceptance, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. new or additional product introductions increase the complexities of forecasting revenues, and subject us to additional financial and operational risks. if they are not managed effectively, we could experience material risks to our operations, financial condition and business model. as new or enhanced products are introduced, we must attempt to successfully manage the interoperability and transition from older products in order to minimize disruption in customers ordering patterns, avoid excessive levels of older product inventories, and ensure that enough supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customers demands. 24 table of contents as we enter new or emerging markets, we will likely increase demands on our service and support operations and may be exposed to additional competition. we may not be able to provide products, service and support to effectively compete for these market opportunities. undetected software errors, hardware errors, or failures found in new products may result in loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, which could increase our costs and reduce our revenues. product quality problems could lead to reduced revenues, gross margins and operating results. our products may contain undetected software errors, hardware errors or failures when first introduced or as new versions are released. despite testing by us and by current and potential customers, errors may not be found in new products until after commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in loss of or delay in market acceptance, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. in addition, if we fail to remedy a product defect, we may experience a failure of a product line, temporary or permanent withdrawal from a product or market, damage to our reputation, inventory costs or product reengineering expenses and higher ongoing warranty and service costs, and these occurrences could have a material impact on our revenues, gross margins and operating results. we may be subject to losses that may result from or are alleged to result from defects in our products, which could subject us to claims for damages, including consequential damages. due to the global nature of our business, risks inherent in our international operations could have a material adverse effect on our business. although a substantial portion of our business is located and conducted in the u.s., a significant portion of our operations are located, and a significant portion of our revenues are derived, outside of the u.s. during fiscal 2012, our international revenues accounted for 51% of our total revenues. a substantial portion of our products are manufactured outside of the u.s., and we have research and development and service centers overseas. accordingly, our business and our future operating results could be adversely affected by a variety of factors affecting our international operations, some of which are beyond our control, including regulatory, political, or economic conditions in a specific country or region, trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements, government spending patterns, and acts of terrorism and international conflicts. in addition, we may not be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. we utilize forward and option contracts in an attempt to reduce the adverse earnings impact from the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on certain assets and liabilities as well as certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows on a short-term basis. these hedging contracts attempt to reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange movements. factors that could have a negative impact on the effectiveness of our hedging program include inaccuracies in forecasting, widening interest rate differentials, and volatility in the foreign exchange market. our hedging strategies may not be successful and currency exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. in addition, our foreign currency exposure on assets and liabilities for which we do not hedge could have a material impact on our results of operations in periods when the u.s. dollar significantly fluctuates in relation to unhedged non-u.s. currencies in which we transact business. as a result of entering into these hedging contracts with major financial institutions, we may be subject to counterparty nonperformance risk. should there be a counterparty default, we could be exposed to the net losses on the hedged arrangements or be unable to recover anticipated net gains from the transactions. additional risks inherent in our international business activities generally include, among others, longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in managing international operations. 25 table of contents in addition, due to the global nature of our business, we are subject to complex legal and regulatory requirements in the u.s. and the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate and sell our products, including antitrust and anti-competition laws, rules and regulations, and regulations related to data privacy. we are also subject to the potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than u.s. laws. such factors could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial position. moreover, in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures, or u.s. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act. there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, will comply with these policies, procedures, laws and/or regulations. any such violation could subject us to fines and other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in our effective tax rate or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we are taxed at lower rates as compared to the u.s. statutory tax rate; material differences between forecasted and actual tax rates as a result of a shift in the mix of pretax profits and losses by tax jurisdiction, our ability to use tax credits or effective tax rates by tax jurisdiction that differ from our estimates; changing tax laws or related interpretations, accounting standards, regulations, and interpretations in multiple tax jurisdictions in which we operate, as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings; an increase in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including certain stock-based compensation, write-offs of acquired in-process research and development, and impairment of goodwill; the tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods; changes related to our ability to ultimately realize future benefits attributed to our deferred tax assets, including those related to other-than-temporary impairments; tax assessments resulting from income tax audits or any related tax interest or penalties could significantly affect our income tax provision for the period in which the settlements take place; adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by subsidiaries or customers; and a change in our decision to indefinitely reinvest foreign earnings. we receive significant tax benefits from sales to our non-u.s. customers. these benefits are contingent upon existing tax laws and regulations in the u.s. and in the countries in which our international operations are located. future changes in domestic or international tax laws and regulations could adversely affect our ability to continue to realize these tax benefits. we have not provided for u.s. federal and state income taxes or foreign withholding taxes that may result from future remittances of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. the president administration and congress have announced several proposals to reform u.s. tax rules, including proposals that may result in a reduction or elimination of the deferral of u.s. income tax on our future unrepatriated earnings. should such anti-deferral provisions be enacted, our effective tax rate could be adversely affected. 26 table of contents we are currently undergoing income tax audits in the u.s. and several foreign tax jurisdictions. the rights to some of our intellectual property (ip) are owned by certain of our foreign subsidiaries, and payments are made between u.s. and foreign tax jurisdictions relating to the use of this ip in a qualified cost sharing arrangement. in recent years, several other u.s. companies have had their foreign ip arrangements challenged as part of internal revenue service (irs) examinations, which have resulted in material proposed assessments and/or litigation with respect to those companies. on march 26, 2012, we received a revenue agent report from the irs for our fiscal 2005 through 2007 tax returns. on april 25, 2012, we filed a protest related to transfer pricing matters. our fiscal 2008 through 2010 tax returns are currently under audit by the irs. on september 17, 2010, the danish tax authorities issued a decision concluding that distributions declared in 2005 and 2006 from our danish subsidiary were subject to danish at-source dividend withholding tax. we do not believe that our danish subsidiary is liable for withholding tax and filed an appeal with the danish tax tribunal to that effect. on december 19, 2011, the danish tax tribunal issued a ruling that our danish subsidiary was not liable for danish withholding tax. the danish tax examination agency appealed to the danish high court in march 2012. we are in various stages of the examination and appeals process in connection with tax audits worldwide and it is difficult to determine when these examinations will be settled. it is reasonably possible that over the next twelve-month period, we may experience an increase or decrease in unrecognized tax benefits. it is not possible to determine either the magnitude or the range of any increase or decrease at this time. if the ultimate determination of income taxes or at-source withholding taxes assessed under the current irs audits or under audits being conducted in any of the other tax jurisdictions in which we operate results in an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. our international operations currently benefit from a tax ruling concluded in the netherlands which expires on april 30, 2015 and results in a lower level of earnings subject to tax in the netherlands. if we are unable to negotiate a similar tax ruling upon expiration of the current ruling, our effective tax rate could increase and our operating results could be adversely affected. our effective tax rate could also be adversely affected by different and evolving interpretations of existing law or regulations, which in turn would negatively impact our operating and financial results as a whole. our effective tax rate could also be adversely affected if there is a change in international operations and how the operations are managed and structured. the price of our common stock could decline to the extent that our financial results are materially affected by an adverse change in our effective tax rate. our leverage and debt service obligations and note conversion may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and earnings per share. as a result of the sale of our notes, we have a greater amount of debt than we have maintained in the past. in addition, we have various synthetic lease arrangements related to some of our facilities at our corporate headquarters in sunnyvale, california, and, subject to the restrictions in our existing and any future financing agreements, we may incur additional debt. our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. we will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions and governmental regulations. furthermore, our operations may not generate sufficient cash flows to enable us to meet our expenses and service our debt. if we determine it is necessary to seek additional funding for any reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if funding is available, obtain it on acceptable terms. 27 table of contents any conversion of the notes may cause dilution to our shareholders and to our earnings per share. if the average trading price of our common stock in any fiscal quarter exceeds the conversion price of $31.85 per share, the notes will cause an increase in diluted share count and result in lower reported earnings per share. based on the trading price of our common stock as of april 27, 2012, we had approximately 7 million shares of common stock potentially issuable on conversion of our notes. the note hedge transactions discussed below, if exercised upon conversion of the notes, are expected to reduce approximately 80% of the common stock potentially issuable on conversion of the notes. upon conversion of any notes, we would be required to deliver cash up to the principal amount of the notes and, with respect to any excess conversion value greater than the principal amount of the notes, shares of our common stock, which would result in dilution to our shareholders. the note hedges and warrant transactions that we entered into in connection with the sale of the notes may affect the trading price of our common stock. in connection with the issuance of the notes, we entered into privately negotiated convertible note hedge transactions with certain option counterparties (the counterparties), which are expected to offset the potential dilution to our common stock upon any conversion of the notes. at the same time, we also entered into warrant transactions with the counterparties pursuant to which we may issue shares of our common stock above a certain strike price. in connection with these hedging transactions, the counterparties may have entered into various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock or purchased shares of our common stock in secondary market transactions at or following the pricing of the notes. such activities may have had the effect of increasing the price of our common stock. the counterparties are likely to modify their hedge positions from time to time prior to conversion or maturity of the notes by purchasing and selling shares of our common stock or entering into other derivative transactions. additionally, these transactions may expose us to counterparty credit risk for nonperformance. the effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock or the notes will depend, in part, on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock. in addition, if our stock price exceeds the strike price for the warrants, there could be additional dilution to our shareholders, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. in april 2010, we terminated our note hedge transaction with lehman brothers otc derivatives, inc. (lehman otc), which was a counterparty to 20% of our note hedges, as a result of the bankruptcy filing by lehman otc, which constituted an event of default under the note hedge. because we have decided not to replace this note hedge, we are subject to potential dilution on the unhedged portion of our notes upon conversion if on the date of conversion the per-share market price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price of $31.85. the terms of the notes, the rights of the holders of the notes and other counterparties to note hedges and warrants were not affected by the termination of this note hedge. the price of our common stock could also be affected by sales of our common stock by investors who view the notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that we expect to develop involving our common stock by holders of the notes. the hedging or arbitrage could, in turn, affect the trading price of the notes and warrants. future issuances of common stock related to our notes, warrants, stock options, restricted stock units, and our employee stock purchase plan may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and the notes. the conversion of some or all of our outstanding notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders to the extent we deliver common stock upon conversion of the notes. our common stock price exceeded the conversion threshold for the notes for at least 20 trading days during the 30 consecutive trading days ended march 31, 2012. accordingly, as of april 27, 2012, the notes were convertible at the option of the holder. the determination of whether or not the notes are convertible must continue to be performed quarterly. upon conversion of any notes, we would be required to deliver cash for the principal amount of the notes and 28 table of contents shares of common stock, if any, to the extent the conversion value exceeds the principal amount. any new issuance of equity securities, including the issuance of shares upon conversion of the notes or the exercise of related warrants which are not offset by our note hedges, could dilute the interests of our then-existing stockholders, including holders who receive shares upon conversion of their notes, and could substantially decrease the trading price of our common stock and the notes. in addition, any sales in the public market of any common stock issuable upon such conversion or the exercise of warrants could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. as of april 27, 2012, eligible individuals under our stock option and restricted stock unit plans held options to purchase approximately 21 million shares of our common stock and a total of approximately 12 million restricted stock units. if all the outstanding options were exercised, the proceeds to the company would average approximately $30 per share. we also had 15 million shares of our common stock reserved for future issuance under our stock plans with respect to equity awards that have not been granted. the exercise of all of the outstanding options and/or the vesting of all outstanding restricted shares and restricted stock units would dilute the interests of our then-existing stockholders, and any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such exercise could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. as of april 27, 2012, we had approximately 5 million shares of our common stock available for future issuance under our employee stock purchase plan (espp). the issuance of shares under the espp would dilute the interests of our then-existing stockholders, and any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such exercise could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. in addition, the espp includes a purchase price adjustment provision such that employees who elect to participate are granted options to purchase common stock at a 15% discount from the market value of the common stock at certain specified dates within a two-year offering period. if the adjustment is triggered due to a decline in the market value of our common stock, we could incur a significant non-cash charge in our statement of operations. for example, in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 we recorded an expense related to the purchase price adjustment provision of $10.9 million. we may issue equity securities in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations related to business strategy (including in connection with acquisitions, strategic alliances or other transactions), to increase our capital, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding warrants or options upon conversion of the notes, or for other reasons. our acquisitions may disrupt our existing business and harm our results of operations. as part of our strategy, we are continuously evaluating opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that would complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets, or enhance our technical capabilities. in fiscal year 2011, we completed acquisitions of two technology companies, and in fiscal 2012, we completed the acquisition of certain assets related to engenio. the acquisition and ongoing integration of new businesses into our business may adversely affect our operations and profitability. we may not achieve the anticipated cost savings and synergies or realize our estimated revenue, gross margin, profit or other financial projections or business objectives in a timely manner or at all due to a number of factors, including the following: the inability to successfully integrate the operations, technologies, products, personnel and business systems of the acquired companies; in the case of an asset purchase, the failure to acquire all of the assets necessary to operate the acquired business; the diversion of management attention from daily operations of the existing business; the loss of key employees of the acquired businesses could adversely impact our ability to manage the business and our ability to realize our financial forecasts; the inability to retain the customers and partners of acquired businesses following the acquisition; 29 table of contents substantial transaction costs and accounting charges; and exposure to litigation related to acquisitions. acquisitions may also result in risks to our existing business, including: deterioration of our internal control over financial reporting as a result of inconsistencies between our standards, procedures and policies and those of acquired businesses; reliance on the selling party processes, data, supply chain management and reporting during the transition period following the completion of acquisitions; dilution of our current stockholders percentage ownership to the extent we issue new equity; assumption of additional liabilities; incurrence of additional debt or a decline in available cash; adverse effects on our financial statements, such as the need to incur restructuring charges; liability for intellectual property infringement and other litigation claims, which we may or may not be aware of at the time of acquisition; and creation of goodwill or other intangible assets that could result in significant future amortization expense or impairment charges. the failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of an acquisition may also result in impairment charges for goodwill and purchased intangible assets. for example, we have in the past discontinued certain products which were originally acquired through business acquisitions. additional or realized risks of this nature could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates; impairment of our investments could harm our financial results. as of april 27, 2012, we had $5.5 billion in cash, cash equivalents, investments and restricted cash. we invest our cash in a variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of investments in corporate bonds, money market funds and u.s. treasury securities. these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which have been exacerbated by unusual events such as the financial and credit crisis, the downgrade in the u.s. credit rating, and bankruptcy filings in the u.s., which have affected various sectors of the financial markets and led to global credit and liquidity issues. the fair value of these financial investments may change significantly due to events and conditions in the credit and capital markets. any investment securities that we hold or the issues comprising such securities could be subject to review for possible downgrade. any downgrade in credit ratings may result in an additional decline in the estimated fair value of our investments. changes in the various assumptions used to value these securities and any increase in the markets perceived risk associated with such investments may also result in a decline in estimated fair value. investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate debt securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates. currently, we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. we may suffer losses if forced to sell securities that have experienced a decline in market value because of changes in interest rates. currently, we do not use financial derivatives to hedge our interest rate exposure. in addition, we hold investments in auction rate securities (arss) with a par value of $55.6 million which are securities with long-term nominal maturities. all of our arss are backed by pools of student loans guaranteed by the u.s. department of education, and we believe the credit quality of these securities is high, 30 table of contents based on this guarantee. however, liquidity issues in the global credit markets resulted in the failure of auctions for our ars investments. for each failed auction, the interest rate resets to a maximum rate defined for each security, and the ars continues to pay interest in accordance with its terms, although the principal associated with the ars will not be accessible until there is a successful auction or such time as other markets for ars investments develop or the final maturity of the individual securities. as of april 27, 2012, we determined there was a total decline in the fair value of our ars investments of approximately $4.5 million, of which we recorded cumulative net temporary impairment charges of $3.1 million and $1.4 million of an other-than-temporary impairment charge. we have classified all of our arss as other non-current assets in our consolidated balance sheet as of april 27, 2012 as our ability to liquidate such securities in the next 12 months is uncertain. although we currently have the ability and intent to hold these ars investments until recovery in market value or until maturity, if current market conditions deteriorate, or the anticipated recovery in market values does not occur, we may be required to record additional impairment charges in future periods. on occasion, we make strategic investments in other companies which may decline in value and/or not meet desired objectives. the success of these investments depends on various factors over which we may have limited or no control. in the event of adverse conditions in the credit and capital markets, our investment portfolio may be impacted and we could determine that some or all of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment, which could adversely impact our financial position and operating results. we are exposed to the credit and non-payment risk of our customers, resellers, and distributors, especially during times of economic uncertainty and tight credit markets, which could result in material losses. most of our sales to customers are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of 30 days. while we monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, and seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe are reasonable, we may experience losses due to a customer inability to pay. beyond our open credit arrangements, some of our customers have entered into recourse and nonrecourse financing leasing arrangements using third-party leasing companies. under the terms of recourse leases, which are generally three years or less, we remain liable for the aggregate unpaid remaining lease payments to the third-party leasing companies in the event of end-user customer default. we offer arrangements whereby the end-user customer pays a fixed monthly amount plus a variable amount based on actual storage capacity used. these arrangements subject us to additional risk with respect to revenue recognition and profitability due to the uncertainties associated with the variable portion of the arrangements. in addition, from time to time we provide guarantees for a portion of other financing arrangements under which we could be called upon to make payments to our funding parties in the event of nonpayment by end-user customers. we expect demand for customer financing to continue. during periods of economic uncertainty, our exposure to credit risks from our customers increases. in addition, our exposure to credit risks of our customers may increase further if our customers and their customers or their lease financing sources are adversely affected by global economic conditions. in the past, there have been bankruptcies by our customers to whom we had extended open credit, provided lease financing arrangements or guaranteed lease payments under full recourse lease arrangements. such events have caused us to incur bad debt charges, in the case of financing arrangements have caused a loss of revenues, and in the case of recourse lease arrangements have caused us to make payments to third party financers. we 31 table of contents may be subject to similar losses in future periods. any future losses could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. additionally, to the extent that the recent turmoil in the credit markets makes it more difficult for customers to obtain open credit or lease financing, those customers ability to purchase our products could be adversely impacted, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. a significant portion of our cash and cash equivalents are held overseas. if we are not able to generate sufficient cash domestically in order to fund our u.s. operations and strategic opportunities, and to service our debt and synthetic leases, we may incur a significant tax liability in order to repatriate the overseas cash balances, or we may need to raise additional capital in the future. as of april 27, 2012, $2.7 billion of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were held in foreign countries. these amounts are not freely available for dividend repatriation to the u.s. without triggering significant adverse tax consequences in the u.s. as a result, if the cash generated by our domestic operations is not sufficient to fund our domestic operations, our broader corporate initiatives such as stock repurchases, acquisitions, and other strategic opportunities, and to service our outstanding indebtedness, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings, or we may need to obtain new credit facilities to the extent we choose not to repatriate our overseas cash. such additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all, and any new equity financings or offerings would dilute our current stockholders ownership. furthermore, lenders, particularly in light of the current challenges in the credit markets, may not agree to extend us new, additional or continuing credit. if adequate funds are not available, or are not available on acceptable terms, we may be forced to repatriate our foreign sources of liquidity and incur a significant tax expense or we may not be able to take advantage of strategic opportunities, develop new products, respond to competitive pressures or repay our outstanding indebtedness. in any such case, our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely impacted. our synthetic leases are off-balance sheet arrangements that could negatively affect our financial condition and operating results. we have invested substantial resources in new facilities and physical infrastructure, which will increase our fixed costs. our operating results could be harmed if our business does not grow proportionately to our increase in fixed costs. we have various synthetic leasing arrangements with bnp paribas leasing corporation as lessor (bnpplc) for our headquarters office buildings and land in sunnyvale, california. these synthetic leases qualify for operating lease accounting treatment. our future minimum lease payments under these synthetic leases limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business by restricting the funds available for use in addressing such changes. if we are unable to grow our business and revenues proportionately to our increase in fixed costs, our operating results will be harmed. if we elect not to purchase the properties at the end of the lease term, we have guaranteed a minimum residual value to bnpplc. if the fair value of the properties declines below their cost, our residual value guarantee would require us to pay the difference to bnpplc, up to the residual guarantee. as of april 27, 2012, the estimated fair value of certain properties was approximately $5.4 million below the cost of the properties, for which we have accrued $4.9 million as of april 27, 2012. any further decline in the fair value of the properties could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. we are subject to restrictive and financial covenants in our synthetic lease arrangements. the restrictive covenants may restrict our ability to operate our business. our ongoing extension of credit under our synthetic lease arrangements are subject to continued compliance with financial covenants. if we do not comply with these restrictive and financial covenants or otherwise default under the arrangements, we may be required to repay any outstanding amounts or repurchase the properties which are subject to the synthetic lease arrangements. if we lose access to the synthetic lease arrangements, we may not be able to obtain alternative financing on acceptable terms, which could limit our operating flexibility. 32 table of contents changes in market conditions have led, and in the future could lead, to charges related to the discontinuance of certain of our products and asset impairments. in response to changes in economic conditions and market demands, we may decide to strategically realign our resources and consider cost containment measures including restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise discontinuing certain products. any decision to limit investment in, dispose of, or otherwise exit products may result in the recording of charges to earnings, including inventory and technology-related or other intangible asset write-offs, workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, cancellation penalties or claims from third parties who were resellers or users of discontinued products, which would harm our operating results. our estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions. additionally, we are required to perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis, and between annual tests in certain circumstances when impairment indicators exist or if certain events or changes in circumstances have occurred. future goodwill impairment tests may result in charges to earnings, which could materially harm our operating results. we may need to undertake cost-reduction initiatives and restructuring initiatives in the future. we have previously recognized restructuring and other charges related to initiatives to realign our business strategies and resize our business in response to economic and market conditions, including those announced in february 2009 and december 2008. we may undertake future cost-reduction initiatives and restructuring plans that may adversely impact our operations, and we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of our prior or any future restructurings. our business and operations are experiencing rapid growth and organizational change. if we fail to effectively manage such growth and change in a manner that preserves our reputation and the key aspects of our corporate culture, our business and operating results could be harmed. due to recent organic growth and acquisitions, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, rapid growth and organizational change, which has placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our management, operational and financial resources. our headcount has grown from approximately 10,200 employees as of april 29, 2011 to approximately 12,100 employees as of april 27, 2012. we will incur significant expenditures and the allocation of valuable management resources to assimilate our additional human resources in a manner that preserves the key aspects of our corporate culture and enables us to maintain our reputation in the marketplace. if we do not effectively manage our growth and train, retain and manage our employee base, our corporate culture could be undermined, the quality of our products and customer service could suffer, and our reputation could be harmed, each of which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, as our headcount increases, our costs will also increase. our business will be harmed if our efforts to expand our organization and headcount are not accompanied by a corresponding increase in revenues. we are continually seeking ways to make our cost structure, business processes and systems more efficient, including moving activities from higher-cost to lower-cost owned locations, outsourcing certain business process functions and implementing new business information systems. problems with the execution of these activities could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. we continuously seek to make our cost structure and business processes more efficient. we are focused on increasing workforce flexibility and scalability, and improving overall competitiveness by leveraging our global capabilities, as well as external talent and skills worldwide. for example, certain engineering activities and projects that were formerly performed in the u.s. have been moved to lower cost international locations and we rely on partners or third-party service providers for the provision of certain customer support and service, business process functions and activities in it, human resources and accounting. 33 table of contents the challenges involved with moving or outsourcing activities include executing business functions in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures. we are also subject to increased business continuity risks as we increase our reliance on outsource providers. for example, we may no longer be able to exercise control over some aspects of the future development, support or maintenance of outsourced operations and processes, including the management and internal controls associated with those outsourced business operations and processes, which could adversely affect our business. if we are unable to effectively utilize or integrate and interoperate with external resources or if our partners or third-party service providers experience business difficulties or are unable to provide business services as anticipated, we may need to seek alternative service providers or resume providing these business processes internally, which could be costly and time-consuming and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. in addition, we may not achieve the expected benefits of our business process improvement initiatives. we are currently implementing changes to our business information systems and processes and other it initiatives. these initiatives involve a large investment of capital and resources and significant changes to our current operating processes. failure to properly implement one or more of these initiatives, or an interruption in service or unavailability of our systems, could result in lost business and increased costs which could negatively impact our business, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to risks related to the provision of employee health care benefits and recent health care reform legislation. we use a combination of insurance and self-insurance for workers compensation coverage and health care plans. we record expenses under these plans based on estimates of the number and costs of expected claims, administrative costs and stop-loss premiums. these estimates are then adjusted each year to reflect actual costs incurred. actual costs under these plans are subject to variability depending primarily upon participant enrollment and demographics, the actual number and costs of claims made and whether and how much the stop-loss insurance we purchase covers the cost of these claims. in the event that our cost estimates differ from actual costs, we could incur additional unplanned health care costs which could adversely impact our financial condition. in march 2010, comprehensive health care reform legislation under the patient protection and affordable care act (hr 3590) and the health care education and affordability reconciliation act (hr 4872) was passed and signed into law. among other things, the health reform legislation includes guaranteed coverage requirements, eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions and annual and lifetime maximum limits, restricts the extent to which policies can be rescinded, and imposes new and significant taxes on health insurers and health care benefits. provisions of the health reform legislation become effective at various dates over the next several years. the department of health and human services, the national association of insurance commissioners, the department of labor and the treasury department have yet to issue necessary enabling regulations and guidance with respect to the health care reform legislation. due to the breadth and complexity of the health reform legislation, the lack of implementing regulations and interpretive guidance, and the phased-in nature of the implementation, it is difficult to predict the overall impact of the health reform legislation on our business over the coming years. other possible adverse affects of the health reform legislation include reduced revenues, increases in costs, exposure to expanded liability and requirements for us to revise the ways in which we conduct business or risk of loss of business. if any of these adverse effects occur, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. we depend on attracting and retaining qualified personnel. if we are unable to attract and retain such personnel, our operating results could be materially and adversely impacted. our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to identify, attract, motivate and retain qualified personnel. because our future success is dependent on our ability to continue to enhance and introduce new 34 table of contents products, we are particularly dependent on our ability to identify, attract, motivate and retain qualified engineers with the requisite education, background and industry experience. competition for qualified employees, particularly in silicon valley, can be intense. the loss of the services of a significant number of our employees, particularly our engineers, salespeople and key managers, could be disruptive to our development efforts or business relationships and could materially and adversely affect our operating results. a component of our strategy to hire and retain personnel consists of long-term compensation in the form of equity-based grants. we face increased risk of the inability to continue to offer equity if we are unable to obtain shareholder approval in light of increased shareholder activism, heightened focus on corporate compensation practices, and increased scrutiny of the dilutive effects of such equity compensation programs. such inability could adversely impact our ability to continue to attract and retain employees. in addition, because of the structure of our incentive compensation plans, we may be at increased risk of losing employees and other service providers at certain points in time. for example, the retention value of our compensation plans decreases after the payment of bonuses or the vesting of equity awards or other equity compensation. as a result, employees may be more likely to leave us during periods following such payments or the vesting of such awards. the loss of services of a significant number of our key employees during a short period of time could be disruptive to our product development and sales efforts and adversely impact our business relationships and operating results. our business could be materially and adversely affected as a result of a natural disaster, terrorist acts or other catastrophic events. we depend on the ability of our personnel, raw materials, equipment and products to move reasonably unimpeded around the world. any political, military, terrorism, global trade, world health or other issue that hinders this movement or restricts the import or export of materials could lead to significant business disruptions. furthermore, any economic failure or other material disruption caused by fire, floods, hurricanes, earthquakes, volcanoes, power loss, power shortages, environmental disasters, telecommunications or business information systems failures, break-ins and similar events could also adversely affect our ability to conduct business. if such disruptions result in cancellations of customer orders or contribute to a general decrease in economic activity or corporate spending on information technology, or directly impact our marketing, manufacturing, financial and logistics functions, or impair our ability to meet our customer demands, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. in addition, our headquarters and one of our major data centers are located in northern california, an area susceptible to earthquakes. if any significant disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business could be impaired. we are exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims and protection of intellectual property rights, which could adversely affect our operating results. we may be a party to lawsuits and other claims in the normal course of our business from time to time, including intellectual property, commercial, product liability, employment, class action, whistleblower and other litigation and claims, and governmental and other regulatory investigations and proceedings. litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. an unfavorable resolution of a particular lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may be subject to increased competition that could materially and adversely affect our operating results. our success depends significantly upon our proprietary technology. we rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions with employees, resellers, strategic partners and customers, and patents to protect our proprietary rights. we seek to protect our software, documentation and other written materials under trade secret, copyright and patent laws, which afford only limited protection. some of our u.s. trademarks are registered internationally as well. we will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks as appropriate. we currently have multiple u.s. and international patent applications pending and multiple u.s. patents issued. the 35 table of contents pending applications may not be approved, and our existing and future patents may be challenged. if such challenges are brought, the patents may be invalidated. we may not be able to develop proprietary products or technologies that are patentable, and patents issued to us may not provide us with any competitive advantages and may be challenged by third parties. further, the patents of others may materially and adversely affect our ability to do business. in addition, a failure to obtain and defend our trademark registrations may impede our marketing and branding efforts and competitive position. litigation may be necessary to protect our proprietary technology. any such litigation may be time-consuming and costly. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the u.s. our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate or our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products, or design around patents issued to us or other intellectual property rights of ours. we are subject to intellectual property infringement claims. we may, from time to time, receive claims that we are infringing third parties intellectual property rights. third parties may in the future, claim infringement by us with respect to current or future products, patents, trademarks or other proprietary rights. we expect that companies in the network storage and data management market will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. any such claims could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays, require us to redesign our products or enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. our business could be materially adversely affected by changes in regulations or standards regarding energy efficiency of our products and climate change issues and environmental disclosures. we are subject to a variety of environmental and safety regulations governing materials usage, packaging, climate control and other environmental impacts in the various countries in which we do business. for example, various international, federal, state, and local provisions regulate the use and discharge of certain hazardous materials used in the manufacture of our products. environmental laws are complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more stringent over time. failure to comply with such laws and regulations in the future could cause us to incur substantial costs or subject us to business interruptions. recently, governmental and non-governmental organizations have turned their attention to development of regulations and standards to drive technological improvements to reduce carbon emissions. while we continuously seek to optimize the energy efficiency of our products, there is a risk that the development of these standards will not fully address the complexity of the technology developed by the it industry or will favor certain technological approaches. depending on the regulations or standards that are ultimately adopted, the cost of compliance could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. in addition, we are subject to provisions of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act intended to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of minerals originating from the conflict zones of the democratic republic of congo or adjoining countries. we may incur costs to comply with the new disclosure requirements of this law and may realize other costs relating to the sourcing and availability of minerals used in our products. further, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational harm if our customers or other stakeholders conclude that we are unable to verify sufficiently the origins of the minerals used in the products we sell. our business is subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure, and accounting and tax requirements that have increased both our costs and the risk of noncompliance. because our common stock is publicly traded, we are subject to certain rules and regulations of federal, state and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies 36 table of contents whose securities are publicly traded. for example, in july 2010, the president signed into law the dodd-frank act. because new and modified laws, regulations, and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. this evolution may result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and additional costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to our disclosure and governance practices. if a data center or other third-party who relies on our products experiences a disruption in service or a loss of data, such disruption or loss could be attributed to the quality of our products, thereby causing financial or reputational harm to our business. third-party vendors, including data centers, software as a service (saas), cloud computing and internet infrastructure and bandwidth providers rely on our products for their data storage needs. we exercise little control over how these third-party vendors use or maintain our products, and in some cases improper usage or maintenance could impair the performance of our products. a disruption in the services provided by these third-party vendors, or the loss of data stored by such vendors, could result in financial or reputational harm to our business to the extent that such disruption or loss is caused by, or perceived by our customers to have been caused by, defects in our products. moreover, the risk of reputational harm may be magnified and/or distorted through the rapid dissemination of information over the internet, including through news articles, blogs, chat rooms, and social media sites. security and privacy breaches may expose us to liability, and our reputation and business could suffer. we obtain and store sensitive data related to our employees, customers and partners, including intellectual property, books of record and personally identifiable information. it is critical to our business strategy that our infrastructure remains secure and is perceived by our employees, customers and partners to be secure. if our security measures are breached as a result of technical problems, third-party actions, employee error, or malfeasance, our reputation could be damaged and our business could suffer. changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse unexpected fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. a change in accounting standards or practices and varying interpretations of existing accounting pronouncements, such as the changes to revenue recognition standards that we recently adopted, the increased use of fair value measures, additional proposed changes to revenue recognition, lease accounting, financial instruments and other accounting standards, and the potential requirement that u.s. registrants prepare financial statements in accordance with international financial reporting standards (ifrs), could have a significant effect on our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. implementation of accounting regulations and related interpretations and policies, particularly those related to revenue recognition, could cause us to defer recognition of revenue or recognize lower revenue, which may affect our results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk related to fluctuations in interest rates, market prices, and foreign currency exchange rates. we use certain derivative financial instruments to manage these risks. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. all financial instruments are used in accordance with management-approved policies. market risk and market interest risk investment and interest income as of april 27, 2012, we had debt investments of $3.9 billion. our investment portfolio primarily consists of investments with original maturities greater than three months at the date of purchase, and are classified as available-for-sale investments. these investments, which consist primarily of corporate bonds, commercial paper, and certificates of deposit, are subject to interest rate and interest income risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates from levels as of april 27, 2012 would cause an immaterial decline in the fair value of these available-for-sale investments. volatility in market interest rates over time will cause variability in our interest income. we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. our investment policy is to limit credit exposure through diversification and investment in highly rated securities. we further mitigate concentrations of credit risk in our investments by limiting our investments in the debt securities of a single issuer and by diversifying risk across geographies and type of issuer. we actively review, along with our investment advisors, current investment ratings, company-specific events and general economic conditions in managing our investments and in determining whether there is a significant decline in fair value that is other-than-temporary. we will monitor and evaluate the accounting for our investment portfolio on a quarterly basis for any other-than-temporary impairment charges. we are also exposed to market risk relating to our auction rate securities due to uncertainties in the credit and capital markets. as of april 27, 2012, we recorded cumulative unrealized losses of $4.0 million, offset by $0.9 million of cumulative unrealized gains related to these securities. the fair value of our auction rate securities may change significantly due to events and conditions in the credit and capital markets. these securities/issuers could be subject to review for possible downgrade. any downgrade in these credit ratings may result in an additional decline in the estimated fair value of our auction rate securities. changes in the various assumptions used to value these securities and any increase in the market perceived risk associated with such investments may also result in a decline in estimated fair value. if current market conditions deteriorate, or the anticipated recovery in market values does not occur, we may be required to record additional unrealized losses in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) or other-than-temporary impairment charges to earnings in future quarters. we intend, and have the ability, to hold these investments until the market recovers. we do not believe that the lack of liquidity relating to our portfolio investments will impact our ability to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures or other operating requirements. convertible notes in june 2008, we issued $1.265 billion principal amount of 1.75% notes due 2013, of which $1,017.0 million was allocated to debt and $248.0 million was allocated to equity. holders may convert the notes prior to maturity upon the occurrence of certain circumstances, including, but not limited to: during the five business day period after any five consecutive trading day period in which the trading price of the notes for each day in this five consecutive trading day period was less than 98% of an amount equal to (i) the last reported sale price of our common stock multiplied by (ii) the conversion rate of the notes on each such day; during any calendar quarter (and only during such calendar quarter) if the last reported sale price of our common stock for 20 or more trading days in a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter exceeds 130% of the applicable conversion price in effect for the notes on the last trading day of such immediately preceding calendar quarter; or upon the occurrence of specified corporate transactions described in the indenture for the notes. 67 table of contents the notes are convertible into the right to receive cash in an amount up to the principal amount and shares of our common stock for the conversion value in excess of the principal amount, if any, at an initial conversion rate of 31.40 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of notes (which represents an initial effective conversion price of the notes of $31.85 per share), subject to adjustment as described in the indenture governing the notes. concurrent with the issuance of the notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions and separately, warrant transactions, to reduce the potential dilution from the conversion of the notes and to mitigate any negative effect such conversion may have on the price of our common stock. in fiscal 2010, we terminated the hedge transaction with a counterparty to 20% of our note hedges, and because we have decided not to replace the hedge, we are subject to potential dilution on the 20% unhedged portion of our notes upon conversion, if on the date of conversion, the per-share market price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price of $31.85. our common stock price exceeded the conversion threshold for the notes for at least 20 trading days during the 30 consecutive trading days ended march 31, 2012. accordingly, as of april 27, 2012, the notes were convertible at the option of the holder and, therefore, the carrying value of the notes was classified as short-term debt. since the notes were convertible at the option of the holder and the principal amount would have been required to be paid in cash, the difference between the principal amount and the carrying value of the notes was reflected as convertible debt in mezzanine on our consolidated balance sheets as of april 27, 2012. upon conversion of any notes, we deliver cash up to the principal amount of the notes and, with respect to any excess conversion value greater than the principal amount of the notes, shares of our common stock. as of april 27, 2012, shares issued related to the notes were minimal. based on the closing price of our common stock of $39.03 on april 27, 2012, the if-converted value of our notes exceeded their principal amount by approximately $285.3 million. the fair value of our notes is subject to interest rate risk, market risk and other factors due to the convertible feature. generally, the fair value of notes will increase as interest rates fall and/or our common stock price increases, and decrease as interest rates rise and/or our common stock price decreases. the interest and market value changes affect the fair value of our notes, but do not impact our financial position, cash flows, or results of operations due to the fixed nature of the debt obligations. we do not carry the notes at fair value, but present the fair value of the principal amount of the notes for disclosure purposes. as of april 27, 2012, the principal amount of the notes, which consists of the combined debt and equity components, was $1.265 billion, and the total estimated fair value of the principal amount was $1.650 billion based on the closing trading price of $130 per $100 of the notes as of that date. foreign currency exchange rate risk and foreign exchange forward contracts we hedge risks associated with foreign currency transactions to minimize the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on earnings. we utilize forward and option contracts to hedge against the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain foreign-currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities. all balance sheet hedges are marked to market through earnings each period. we also use foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge foreign currency forecasted transactions related to forecasted sales transactions. these derivatives are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges under accounting guidance for derivatives and hedging. for cash flow hedges outstanding at april 27, 2012, the time-value component is recorded in earnings while all other unrealized gains or losses are included in other comprehensive income. we do not enter into foreign exchange contracts for speculative or trading purposes. in entering into forward and option foreign exchange contracts, we have assumed the risk that might arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts. we attempt to limit our exposure to credit risk by executing foreign exchange contracts with creditworthy multinational commercial banks. all contracts have a maturity of less than one year. 68 table of contents the following table provides information about our currency forward contracts outstanding on april 27, 2012 and april 29, 2011 (in millions): april 27, 2012 april 29, 2011 currency local currency amount notional contract amount (usd) fair value (usd) local currency amount notional contract amount (usd) fair value (usd) forward purchase contracts: euro 275.2 $ 364.3 $ 364.8 241.6 $ 357.7 $ 357.4 british pound sterling 71.5 116.2 116.2 55.0 91.7 91.9 australian dollar 52.0 54.3 54.5 31.5 34.4 34.4 canadian dollar 37.8 38.5 38.6 53.1 56.0 56.1 other n/a 68.5 68.6 n/a 52.6 52.5 69 table of contentsrisk factors all information included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k should be considered and understood in the context of the following risk factors, which describe circumstances that may materially harm our future business, operating results or financial condition. the following discussion reflects our current judgment regarding the most significant risks we face. these risks can and will change in the future. continuing uncertain economic conditions restrict our visibility and may harm our operating results. the continuing global economic uncertainty and related political and fiscal challenges in the u.s. and abroad (particularly the eurozone) due to the debt and fiscal crises of recent years have, among other things, limited our ability to forecast future demand for our products, contributed to increased periodic volatility in the computer, storage, and networking industries at large, as well as the information technology (it) market, and potentially constrains future access to capital for our suppliers, customers and partners. the impacts of these circumstances are global and pervasive, affecting all participants in our industry, and the timing and nature of any ultimate resolution of these matters remain highly uncertain. moreover, a significant portion of our sales are to eurozone customers and, accordingly, we are particularly sensitive to developments in that region. additionally, fiscal restraints have caused, and may in the future again cause governments to defer purchases in response to tighter budgets. consequently, we expect these concerns to challenge our business for the foreseeable future, and potentially cause harm to our operating results and failure to meet our forecasted financial expectations. when and if the current macroeconomic challenges are resolved, we expect the risk of economic uncertainty to continue, with the potential to restrict our visibility and harm our operating results. our business may be harmed if growth in the storage market declines. our industry has experienced significant historical growth due to the continuing increase in the demand for storage by consumers, enterprises and government bodies around the world, and our customers purchases of storage solutions to address this demand. while it spending has fluctuated periodically due to technology transitions and changing economic and business environments, overall growth in demand for storage has continued. recent technology trends, such as the emergence of hosted (or cloud ) storage, software as a service (saas) and mobile data access are driving significant changes in storage architectures and solution requirements. the impact of these trends on overall long-term growth patterns is uncertain. nevertheless, if the general level of historic industry growth, or if the growth of the specific markets in which we compete, were to decline, our business and results of operations could suffer. our quarterly operating results may fluctuate materially, which could harm our common stock price. our operating results have fluctuated in the past and will continue to do so, sometimes materially. all of the matters discussed in this risk factor section could impact our operating results in any fiscal quarter or year. in addition to those matters, we face the following issues which could impact our quarterly results: seasonality, such as our historical seasonal decline in revenues in the first quarter of our fiscal year and seasonal increase in revenues in the second quarter of our fiscal year, with the latter due in part to the impact of the u.s. federal government september 30 fiscal year end on the timing of its orders; and linearity, such as our historical intra-quarter bookings and revenue pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter total bookings and related revenue occur in the last month of the quarter. if our operating results fall below our forecasts and the expectations of public market analysts and investors, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline. 17 table of contents our sales and distribution structure makes forecasting revenues difficult and, if disrupted, could harm our operating results. our business and sales models make revenues difficult to forecast. we sell to a variety of customers, with a corresponding variety of sales cycles. in addition, the majority of our sales are made indirectly through channel partners, including value-added resellers, systems integrators, distributors, original equipment manufacturers (oems) and strategic business partners. during the year ended april 26, 2013, revenues generated from sales through our indirect channel accounted for 81% of net revenues. this structure significantly complicates our ability to forecast future revenue, particularly within any particular fiscal quarter or year. moreover, our relationships with our indirect channel partners are critical to our success. the loss of one or more of our key indirect channel partners in a given geographic area could harm our operating results, as qualifying and developing new indirect channel partners typically requires a significant investment of time and resources before acceptable levels of productivity are met. if we fail to maintain our relationships with our indirect channel partners, if their financial condition, business or customer relationships were to weaken or if they fail to comply with legal or regulatory requirements, our business and operating results could be harmed. if we do not achieve forecasted bookings in any quarter our financial results will be harmed. we derive a majority of our revenues in any given quarter from orders booked in the same quarter. bookings typically follow intra-quarter seasonality patterns weighted toward the back end of the quarter. if we do not achieve the level, timing and mix of bookings consistent with our quarterly targets and historical patterns, or if we experience cancellations of significant orders, our financial results will be harmed. additionally, due to the complexities associated with revenue recognition, we may not be able to accurately forecast our non-deferred and deferred revenues, which could harm our operating results. we often incur expenses before we receive related benefits and expenses may be difficult to reduce quickly if demand declines. we base our expense levels in part on future revenue expectations and a significant percentage of our expenses are fixed. it is difficult to reduce our fixed costs quickly, and if revenue levels are below our expectations, operating results will be adversely impacted. during periods of uneven growth or decline, we may incur costs before we realize the anticipated related benefits, which could also harm our operating results. we have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in engineering, sales, service and support, marketing and other functions to support and grow our business. we are likely to recognize the costs associated with these investments earlier than some of the related anticipated benefits, such as revenue growth, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. any disruption to our supply chain could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we do not manufacture our products or their components. instead, we rely on third parties to make our products and critical components, such as hard disk drives, as well as for associated logistics. our lack of direct responsibility for, and control over, these elements of our business, as well as the diverse international geographic locations of our manufacturing partners and suppliers, creates significant risks for us, including, among other things: limited ability to control the quality, quantity and cost of our products or of their components; the potential for binding price or purchase commitments with our suppliers that are higher than market rates; limited ability to adjust production volumes in response to our customers demand fluctuations; labor and political unrest at facilities we do not operate or own; 18 table of contents geopolitical disputes disrupting our supply chain; business, legal compliance, litigation and financial concerns affecting our suppliers or their ability to manufacture and ship our products in the quantities, quality and manner we require; and disruptions due to floods, earthquakes, storms and other natural disasters, particularly in countries with limited infrastructure and disaster recovery resources. we have encountered some of these risks, such as the 2011 thailand floods, which subjected us to supply constraints, price increases and minimum purchase commitments, and expect to be subject to similar risks in the future. when we do, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. the risks associated with our out-sourced manufacturing model are particularly acute when we transition products to new facilities or manufacturers, introduce and increase volumes of new products or qualify new contract manufacturers or suppliers, at which times our ability to manage the relationships among us, our manufacturing partners and our component suppliers, becomes critical. new manufacturers, products, components or facilities create increased costs and risk that we will fail to deliver high quality products in the required volumes to our customers. any failure of a manufacturer or component supplier to meet our quality, quantity or delivery requirements in a cost-effective manner will harm our business, operating results and customer relationships. we rely on a limited number of suppliers for critical product components. we rely on a limited number of suppliers for drives and other components utilized in the assembly of our products, including certain single source suppliers, which has subjected us, and could in the future subject us to price rigidity, periodic supply constraints, and the inability to produce our products with the quality and in the quantities demanded. when industry supply is constrained, our suppliers may allocate volumes away from us and to our competitors, all of which rely on many of the same suppliers as we do. accordingly, our operating results may be harmed. our gross margins vary. our gross margins reflect a variety of factors, including competitive pricing, component and product design, the volume and relative mixture of product, services and software entitlements and maintenance (sem) revenues. increased component costs, increased pricing pressures, the relative and varying rates of increases or decreases in component costs and product price, changes in product, services and sem revenue mixture or decreased volume could harm our revenues, gross margins or earnings. our gross margins are also impacted by quality failures and our sales and distribution activities, including, without limitation, pricing actions, rebates, sales initiatives and discount levels, and the timing of service contract renewals. the costs of third-party components comprise a significant portion of our product costs. while we generally have been able to manage our component and product design costs, we may have difficulty managing these costs if supplies of certain components become limited or component prices increase. any such limitation could result in an increase in our product costs. an increase in component or design costs relative to our product prices could harm our gross margins and earnings. increasing competition and industry consolidation could harm our business and operating results. the storage and data management markets are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapidly changing technology and consolidation. we compete with many companies in the markets we serve. over the last decade, the expansion of market opportunities by large, broad-portfolio technology companies, by vertical integration of storage products, technologies and services, such as the acquisition of sun microsystems by oracle, and through internal and external storage-related corporate initiatives, by companies such as hp, dell and ibm, has increased the number of large, diversified technology companies with which we compete. accordingly, many of our key competitors have greater financial resources and offer a broad portfolio of it products and 19 table of contents services (full-stack vendors). these competitors typically maintain broad and deep relationships with customers and partners across a diverse portfolio of products and services. they may also be able to offer lower pricing (or other preferred terms) on storage system products due to these broader relationships. we believe further storage market expansion by large, diversified technology companies, in addition to any future industry consolidation, may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete for customers as sole-source vendors. in addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish strategic alliances among themselves or with third parties, including some of our partners. it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. we may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. competitive pressures we face could harm our business and operating results. a detailed description of storage and software products we compete with is identified in the business section of this annual report on form 10-k. there have been trends toward consolidation in the storage industry and market expansion by large broad technology companies for several years, both of which have risks for us. among other things, the last few years have witnessed considerable consolidation in the disk drive industry, an industry we depend upon for critical storage components. we expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving, maturing industry, as companies become unable to maintain their competitive positions or continue operations and as customers demand more flexible business models and terms. disk drive and other component manufacturing industry consolidations may lead to higher component prices and supply constraints for us, which may, in turn, harm our operating results. our oem relationships may not generate significant revenues. we have oem relationships with several companies, which collectively accounted for 12% of our net revenue during the year ended april 26, 2013. these oems market and sell their branded solutions based on our unified solutions, as well as associated software offerings. while these arrangements are part of our general strategy to expand our reach to more customers and into more countries, we do not have exclusive relationships with our oems, and there is no minimum commitment for any given period of time. we also compete with some of our oems, further complicating our relationships with them. therefore, our relationships with these oems may not continue to generate significant revenues. in addition, we have no control over the products that the oems select to sell, or their release schedule and timing of those products; nor do we control their pricing. if our oem relationships increase, we may experience distribution channel conflicts between our direct sales force and the oems or among our channel partners. if we fail to minimize channel conflicts, or if our oem relationships do not continue to generate significant revenues, our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. a portion of our revenues is generated by large, recurring purchases from various customers, resellers and distributors. a loss, cancellation or delay in purchases by any of these parties has negatively affected in the past, and in the future could negatively affect, our revenues. for the year ended april 26, 2013, sales to distributors arrow electronics, inc. and avnet, inc. accounted for 19% and 15%, respectively, of our net revenues. we generally do not enter into binding purchase commitments with our customers, resellers and distributors for extended periods of time, and thus we may not be able to continue to receive large, recurring orders from these customers, resellers or distributors. for example, our reseller agreements generally do not require minimum purchases, and our customers, resellers and distributors can stop purchasing and marketing our products at any time. in addition, unfavorable economic conditions may negatively impact the solvency of our customers, resellers and distributors or the ability of such customers, resellers and distributors to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. if any of our key customers, resellers or distributors changes its pricing practices, reduces the size or frequency of its orders for our products, or stops purchasing our products altogether, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted. 20 table of contents reduced u.s. government demand could materially harm our business and operating results. in addition, we could be harmed by claims that we or a channel partner have failed to comply with regulatory and contractual requirements applicable to sales to the u.s. government. the u.s. government has become an important customer for us. however, government demand is uncertain, as it is subject to political and budgetary fluctuations and constraints. recent and continued uncertainty regarding the u.s. budget and debt levels has increased demand uncertainty for our products. if the government or individual agencies within the government reduce or shift their capital it spending patterns, our revenues and operating results may be harmed. selling our products to the u.s. government, whether directly or through channel partners, also subjects us to certain regulatory and contractual requirements. failure to comply with these requirements by either us or our channel partners could subject us to investigations, fines, and other penalties, which could materially harm our operating results and financial condition. as an example, the united states department of justice (doj) and the general services administration (gsa) have in the past pursued claims against and financial settlements with it vendors, including us and several of our competitors and channel partners, under the false claims act and other statutes related to pricing and discount practices and compliance with certain provisions of gsa contracts for sales to the federal government. although the doj and gsa currently have no claims pending against us, we could face claims in the future. violations of certain regulatory and contractual requirements could also result in us being suspended or debarred from future government contracting. any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating results and financial position. some of our products are subject to u.s. export control laws and other laws affecting the countries in which our products and services may be sold, distributed, or delivered; any violation of these laws could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. due to the global nature of our business, we are subject to import and export restrictions and regulations, including the export administration regulations (ear) administered by the commerce department bureau of industry and security (bis) and the trade and economic sanctions regulations administered by the treasury department office of foreign assets control (ofac). the u.s., through the bis and ofac, places restrictions on the sale or export of certain products and services to certain countries and persons. violators of these export control and sanctions laws may be subject to significant penalties, which may include significant monetary fines, criminal proceedings against them and their officers and employees, a denial of export privileges, and suspension or debarment from selling products to the federal government. we take a variety of precautions to prevent our products from being shipped to u.s.-sanctioned targets; however, our products could be shipped to those targets by third parties, including potentially our channel partners, despite such precautions. for instance, media reports starting in november 2011 have asserted that certain of our products were delivered to syria through a third-party possibly in violation of u.s. export-control laws. we have publicly stated that we condemn any use of our products or technologies in syria, we have notified the u.s. government that we are conducting a review of these allegations, and intend to cooperate fully with any government inquiry. we have met with u.s. government officials, provided information at their request, and expressed our willingness to continue cooperating with any further inquiry or investigation. if we are found to have violated u.s. export control laws, we may be subject to various penalties available under the laws, any of which could have a material and adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial position. even if we are not found to have violated such laws, the political and media scrutiny surrounding any governmental investigation of us could cause us significant financial and reputational harm and distract senior executives from managing our normal day-to-day operations, which could have a material and adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial position. if we are unable to maintain and develop relationships with strategic partners, our revenues may be harmed. our growth strategy includes developing and maintaining strategic partnerships with major third-party software and hardware vendors to integrate our products into their products and also co-market our products with 21 table of contents them. a detailed description of these partnership relationships is identified in the business section of this annual report. a number of these strategic partners are industry leaders that offer us expanded access to segments of the storage and data management market. however, there is intense competition for attractive strategic partners, and these relationships may not be exclusive, may not generate significant revenues and may terminate on short notice. for instance some of our partners are also partnering with our competitors, which may increase the availability of competing solutions and harm our ability to grow our relationships with those partners. moreover, some of our partners, particularly large, more diversified technology companies, are also competitors, complicating our relationships. if we are unable to establish new partnerships or maintain existing partnerships, if our strategic partners favor their relationships with other vendors in the storage industry or if our strategic partners increasingly compete with us, we could experience lower than expected revenues, suffer delays in product development, or experience other harm to our operating results and business. our failure to adjust to emerging standards in the storage industry may harm our business. emerging standards in the storage and data management markets may adversely affect the unix &reg; , windows &reg; and the world wide web server markets upon which we depend. for example, we provide our open access data retention solutions to customers within the financial services, healthcare, pharmaceutical and government market segments, industries that are subject to various evolving governmental regulations with respect to data access, reliability and permanence (such as rule 17(a)(4) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended) in the u.s. and in the other countries in which we operate. if our products do not meet and continue to comply with these evolving governmental regulations in this regard, customers in these market and geographical segments will not purchase our products, and we will not be able to expand our product offerings in these market and geographical segments at the rates which we have forecasted. if our products are defective, our gross margins, operating results and customer relationships may be harmed. our products are complex. we have experienced in the past, and expect to experience in the future, quality issues. quality risk is most acute when we are introducing new products, as we discuss in the next risk factor. if we fail to remedy a product defect, we may experience a failure of a product line, temporary or permanent withdrawal from a product or market, damage to our reputation, inventory costs or product reengineering expenses and higher ongoing warranty and service costs, and these occurrences could have a material impact on our gross margins, business and operating results. we may be subject to losses that may result from or are alleged to result from defects in our products, which could subject us to claims for damages, including consequential damages. if we are unable to develop, introduce and gain market acceptance for clustered data ontap or other new products while managing the transition from older products, or if we cannot provide the expected level of quality, service and support for our new products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. our future growth depends upon the successful development and introduction of new hardware and software products. due to the complexity of storage subsystems and storage security appliances and the difficulty in gauging the engineering effort required to produce new products, such products are subject to significant technical and quality control risks. we are currently devoting considerable effort and resources to develop, introduce and gain customer acceptance for our clustered data ontap-based products (cdot). cdot is our next generation storage operating system for our core products and represents a fundamental and revolutionary change to our solution architecture. over time, our goal is to replace our existing technology data ontap 7-mode with cdot and, consequently, we anticipate that a majority of our revenues will ultimately derive from cdot. we face considerable challenges as we develop and market cdot, including, without limitation, cost and complexity associated with migrating customer data and applications from legacy systems to cdot-based systems, 22 table of contents development of some features for cdot currently available with data ontap 7 and potentially required by our customers, and maintaining service, support and customer relationships as we replace data ontap-7 with cdot. nevertheless, if we are unable, for technological, customer reluctance or other reasons, to develop, introduce and gain market acceptance for cdot, or any other new products, as and when required by the market and our customers, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. new or additional product introductions also increase the complexities of forecasting revenues, and subject us to additional financial and operational risks. in addition, as new or enhanced products are introduced, we must also avoid excessive levels of older product inventories, and ensure that enough supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customers demands. if these risks are not managed effectively, we could experience material risks to our operations, financial condition and business model. as we enter new or emerging markets, we will likely increase demands on our service and support operations and may be exposed to additional competition. we may not be able to provide products, service and support to effectively compete for these market opportunities. due to the global nature of our business, risks inherent in our international operations could materially harm our business. a significant portion of our operations are located, and a significant portion of our revenues are derived, outside of the u.s. for the year ended april 26, 2013, our international revenues accounted for 50% of our total revenues. in addition, a substantial portion of our products are manufactured outside of the u.s., and we have research and development and service centers overseas. accordingly, our business and our future operating results could be adversely affected by factors affecting our international operations, but not experienced in the u.s., including, among other things, local political or economic conditions, trade protection and export and import requirements, local labor conditions, transportation costs, government spending patterns, acts of terrorism, international conflicts and natural disasters in areas with limited infrastructure. in addition, due to the global nature of our business, we are subject to complex legal and regulatory requirements in the u.s. and the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate and sell our products, including antitrust and anti-competition laws, rules and regulations, and regulations related to data privacy. we are also subject to the potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation, or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than u.s. laws. such factors could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial position. we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. we utilize forward and option contracts in an attempt to reduce the adverse earnings impact from the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on certain assets and liabilities as well as certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows on a short-term basis. our hedging strategies may not be successful, and currency exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. in addition, our foreign currency exposure on assets and liabilities for which we do not hedge could have a material impact on our results of operations in periods when the u.s. dollar significantly fluctuates in relation to unhedged non-u.s. currencies in which we transact business. additional risks inherent in our international business activities generally include, among others, longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in managing international operations. moreover, in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures, or u.s. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act. there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business 23 table of contents operations, will comply with these policies, procedures, laws and/or regulations. any such violation could subject us to fines and other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in our effective tax rate or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results. our effective tax rate is influenced by a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. these factors include among other things, fluctuations in our earnings and financial results in the various countries and states in which we do business, and changes to the tax regulations in such jurisdictions. any of these factors could materially impact our operating results. we receive significant tax benefits from sales to our non-u.s. customers. these benefits are contingent upon existing tax laws and regulations in the u.s. and in the countries in which our international operations are located. future changes in domestic or international tax laws and regulations could adversely affect our ability to continue to realize these tax benefits. we have not provided for u.s. federal and state income taxes or foreign withholding taxes that may result from future remittances of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. the president administration and congress have announced several proposals to reform u.s. tax rules, including proposals that may result in a reduction or elimination of the deferral of u.s. income tax on our future unrepatriated earnings. should such anti-deferral provisions be enacted, our effective tax rate could be adversely affected. we are currently undergoing income tax audits in the u.s. and several foreign tax jurisdictions, as described in note 13 to our consolidated financial statements. the rights to some of our intellectual property (ip) are owned by certain of our foreign subsidiaries, and payments are made between u.s. and foreign tax jurisdictions relating to the use of this ip in a qualified cost sharing arrangement. in recent years, several other u.s. companies have had their foreign ip arrangements challenged as part of internal revenue service (irs) examinations, which have resulted in material proposed assessments and/or litigation with respect to those companies. if the ultimate determination of income taxes or at-source withholding taxes assessed under the current irs audits or under audits being conducted in any of the other tax jurisdictions in which we operate results in an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. our international operations currently benefit from a tax ruling concluded in the netherlands which expires on april 30, 2015 and results in a lower level of earnings subject to tax in the netherlands. if we are unable to negotiate a similar tax ruling upon expiration of the current ruling, our effective tax rate could increase and our operating results could be adversely affected. our effective tax rate could also be adversely affected by different and evolving interpretations of existing law or regulations, which in turn would negatively impact our operating and financial results as a whole. our effective tax rate could also be adversely affected if there is a change in international operations and how the operations are managed and structured. the price of our common stock could decline to the extent that our financial results are materially affected by an adverse change in our effective tax rate. our convertible note conversion may adversely affect our results of operations, particularly our earnings per share. any conversion of the convertible notes may cause dilution to our stockholders and to our earnings per share. if the average trading price of our common stock in each fiscal quarter exceeds the conversion price of $31.85 per share, the convertible notes will cause an increase in diluted share count and result in lower reported earnings per share. the convertible note hedge transactions discussed below, if exercised upon conversion of the convertible notes, are expected to reduce approximately 80% of the common stock potentially issuable on conversion of the convertible notes. upon conversion of any convertible notes, we are required to deliver cash 24 table of contents up to the principal amount of the convertible notes and, with respect to any excess conversion value greater than the principal amount of the convertible notes, shares of our common stock, which will result in dilution to our stockholders. as discussed in the subsequent events note to our consolidated financial statements, in june 2013 we issued 4.9 million shares in connection with the settlement of the convertible notes and received 3.9 million shares in connection with the exercise of the convertible note hedges. the convertible note hedges and warrant transactions that we entered into in connection with the sale of the convertible notes may affect the trading price of our common stock. in connection with the issuance of the convertible notes, we entered into privately negotiated convertible note hedge transactions with certain option counterparties (the counterparties), which are expected to offset the potential dilution to our common stock upon any conversion of the convertible notes. at the same time, we also entered into warrant transactions with the counterparties pursuant to which we may issue shares of our common stock above a certain strike price. in connection with these hedging transactions, the counterparties may have entered into various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock or purchased shares of our common stock in secondary market transactions at or following the pricing of the convertible notes. the counterparties are likely to modify their hedge positions from time to time prior to conversion or maturity of the convertible notes by purchasing and selling shares of our common stock or entering into other derivative transactions. additionally, these transactions may expose us to counterparty credit risk for nonperformance. the effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock or the convertible notes will depend, in part, on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock. in addition, if our stock price exceeds the strike price for the warrants, there could be additional dilution to our stockholders, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. the price of our common stock could also be affected by sales of our common stock by investors who view the convertible notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that we expect to develop involving our common stock by holders of the convertible notes. the hedging or arbitrage could, in turn, affect the trading price of the convertible notes and warrants. as discussed in the subsequent events note to our consolidated financial statements, in june 2013 we exercised the convertible note hedges and settled our convertible notes. future issuances of common stock related to our convertible notes, warrants and employee equity awards may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and the convertible notes. the conversion of some or all of our outstanding convertible notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders to the extent we deliver common stock upon conversion of the convertible notes. any new issuance of equity securities, including the issuance of shares upon conversion of the convertible notes or the exercise of related warrants which are not offset by our convertible note hedges, could dilute the interests of our then-existing stockholders, including holders who receive shares upon conversion of their convertible notes, and could substantially decrease the trading price of our common stock and the convertible notes. in addition, any sales in the public market of any common stock issuable upon such conversion or the exercise of warrants could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. as discussed in the subsequent events note to our consolidated financial statements, in june 2013 we issued 4.9 million shares in connection with the settlement of the convertible notes and received 3.9 million shares in connection with the exercise of the convertible note hedges. our failure to pay quarterly dividends to our shareholders could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly. our ability to pay quarterly dividends will be subject to, among other things, our financial position and results of operations, available cash and cash flow, capital requirements, and other factors. any reduction or discontinuation of quarterly dividends could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly. 25 table of contents moreover, in the event our payment of quarterly dividends is reduced or discontinued, our failure or inability to resume paying dividends at historical levels could result in a persistently low market valuation of our stock. our acquisitions may not achieve expected benefits, increase our liabilities, disrupt our existing business and harm our results of operations. as part of our strategy, we seek to acquire other businesses and technologies to complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets, or enhance our technical capabilities. in fiscal 2011, we completed acquisitions of two technology companies. in fiscal 2012, we completed the acquisition of certain assets related to engenio, and in fiscal 2013, we completed the acquisitions of cacheiq and iongrid. the benefits we expect to receive from these and other acquisitions depend on our ability to successfully conduct due diligence, negotiate the terms of acquisition and integrate the acquired business. any inaccuracy in our acquisition assumptions, any failure to uncover liabilities or risks associated with the acquisition, any failure to make the acquisition on favorable terms, or any failure to integrate the acquired business or assets as and when expected, may reduce or eliminate the expected benefits of the acquisition to us, increase our costs, disrupt our operations, result in additional liabilities, investigations and litigation, and may also harm our strategy, our results of operations or our business. the failure to achieve expected acquisition benefits may also result in impairment charges for goodwill and purchased intangible assets. we are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates; impairment of our investments could harm our financial results. we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. a significant part of our investment portfolio consists of u.s. government securities. if global credit experiences prolonged periods of decline, or if there is a downgrade of u.s. government debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely impacted and we could determine that more of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial results. for a summary of these investments and our management of the same, please see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in this document. we are exposed to the credit and non-payment risk of our customers, resellers, and distributors, especially during times of economic uncertainty and tight credit markets, which could result in material losses. most of our sales to customers are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of 30 days. while we monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, and seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe are reasonable, we may experience losses due to a customer inability to pay. beyond our open credit arrangements, some of our customers have entered into recourse and nonrecourse financing leasing arrangements using third-party leasing companies. under the terms of recourse leases, which are generally three years or less, we remain liable for the aggregate unpaid remaining lease payments to the third-party leasing companies in the event of end-user customer default. we expect demand for customer financing to continue. during periods of economic uncertainty, our exposure to credit risks from our customers increases. in addition, our exposure to credit risks of our customers may increase further if our customers and their customers or their lease financing sources are adversely affected by global economic conditions. in the past, there have been bankruptcies by our customers to whom we had extended open credit, provided lease financing arrangements or guaranteed lease payments under full recourse lease arrangements. such events have caused us to incur bad debt charges, in the case of financing arrangements have caused a loss of revenues, and in the case of recourse lease arrangements have caused us to make payments to third-party financers. we 26 table of contents may be subject to similar losses in future periods. any future losses could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. additionally, to the extent that the continuing turmoil in the credit markets makes it more difficult for customers to obtain open credit or lease financing, those customers ability to purchase our products could be adversely impacted, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. any repatriation of our overseas cash to fund u.s. operations, strategic opportunities or debt service may subject us to a significant tax liability. as of april 26, 2013, $3.6 billion of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were held in foreign countries. under current law, dividend repatriation of any of this cash would trigger significant adverse tax consequences in the u.s. as a result, if the cash generated by our domestic operations is not sufficient to fund our domestic operations; our broader corporate initiatives, such as stock repurchases, dividends, acquisitions, and other strategic opportunities; and to service our outstanding indebtedness, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings, or we may need to obtain new credit facilities to the extent we choose not to repatriate our overseas cash. such additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all, and any new equity financings or offerings would dilute our current stockholders ownership. furthermore, lenders may not agree to extend us new, additional or continuing credit. if adequate funds are not available, or are not available on acceptable terms, we may be forced to repatriate our foreign-held cash and incur a significant tax expense. in any such case, our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely impacted. if we default under our significant debt obligations, including our convertible notes and senior notes, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be harmed. moreover, covenants associated with our convertible notes and senior notes may unduly restrict our business. we have convertible notes outstanding in the principal amount of $1.265 billion that mature on june 1, 2013 and senior notes outstanding in an aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion that mature at specific dates in calendar 2017 and 2022. we have also established a revolving credit facility under which we may borrow an aggregate amount outstanding at any time of $250.0 million, under which we had no borrowings outstanding as of april 26, 2013. we may fail to pay these obligations, as and when required. specifically, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service or refinance our debt, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be harmed. as discussed in the subsequent events note to our consolidated financial statements, in june 2013 we repaid the principal amount of our convertible notes. in addition, our debt and credit facility arrangements subject us to continued compliance with restrictive and financial covenants. if we do not comply with these covenants or otherwise default under the arrangements, we may be required to repay any outstanding amounts borrowed under these agreements. moreover, compliance with these covenants may restrict our strategic or operational flexibility in the future, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. we may incur asset impairment and restructuring charges in response to changing market conditions or cost-cutting initiatives. we may undertake cost savings initiatives in response to changes in market conditions and market demand for our products. these initiatives may include restructuring, disposing of, and/or otherwise discontinuing certain products, or both. any decision to take these actions may result in charges to earnings associated with, among other things, inventory or other fixed, intangible or goodwill asset reductions (including, without limitation, impairment charges), workforce and facility reductions and penalties and claims from third party resellers or users of discontinued products. these charges would harm our operating results. we have previously recognized restructuring and other charges associated with these activities. in addition to the costs associated with these activities, we may not realize any of the anticipated benefits of the same. 27 table of contents we could be harmed if we fail to manage our growth. while we have historically grown rapidly, primarily through organic initiatives our acquisition activity has been ongoing and we expect to continue to look for opportunities to supplement our organic growth through strategic initiatives. our growth has at times led to both organizational change and strain. we may continue to experience rapid growth and organizational change, which may continue to place significant demands on our management, operational and financial resources and systems. we incur significant expenditures of funds and the allocation of management and other resources to manage our growth and assimilate new human resources in a manner that preserves the key aspects of our corporate culture and our reputation in the marketplace. we may experience periods when our pace of growth exceeds the capacity and capabilities of our organization and systems. if we do not effectively manage our growth through cost-effective organizational and system programs, our corporate culture could be undermined, the quality of our products and customer service could suffer, and our reputation could be harmed, each of which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are continually seeking ways to make our cost structure, business processes and systems more efficient, including by moving activities from higher-cost to lower-cost locations, outsourcing certain business processes and functions, and implementing new business information systems. problems with the execution of these activities could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. we continuously seek to make our cost structure and business processes more efficient, including by moving our business activities from higher-cost to lower-cost locations, outsourcing certain business processes and functions, and implementing changes to our business information systems. these efforts involve a significant investment of financial and human resources and significant changes to our current operating processes. in addition, as we move operations into lower-cost jurisdictions and outsource certain business processes, we become subject to new regulatory regimes and lose control of certain aspects of our operations and, as a consequence, become more dependent upon the systems and business processes of third-parties. if we are unable to move our operations, outsource business processes and implement new business information systems in a manner that complies with local law and maintains adequate standards, controls and procedures, the quality of our products and services may suffer and we may be subject to increased litigation risk, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business and operating results could be harmed. our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel. because our future success is dependent on our ability to continue to enhance and introduce new products, we are particularly dependent on our ability to hire and retain qualified engineers. competition for qualified employees, particularly in silicon valley, is intense. the loss of the services of a significant number of our employees, particularly our engineers, salespeople and key managers, could be disruptive to our development efforts or business relationships and could materially and adversely affect our operating results. equity grants are a critical component of our current compensation programs. if we reduce or eliminate our equity programs, due to increased shareholder activism, heightened focus on corporate compensation practices, or increased scrutiny of the dilutive effects of such programs, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining critical employees. in addition, because of the structure of our cash and equity incentive compensation plans, we may be at increased risk of losing employees at certain times. for example, the retention value of our compensation plans decreases after the payment of annual bonuses or the vesting of equity awards. 28 table of contents our business could be materially and adversely affected as a result of a natural disaster, terrorist acts or other catastrophic events. we depend on the ability of our personnel, raw materials, equipment and products to move reasonably unimpeded around the world. any political, military, terrorism, global trade, world health or other issue that hinders this movement or restricts the import or export of materials could lead to significant business disruptions. furthermore, any economic failure or other material disruption caused by natural disasters, including fires, floods, hurricanes, earthquakes, and volcanoes; power loss or shortages; environmental disasters; telecommunications or business information systems failures or break-ins and similar events could also adversely affect our ability to conduct business. if such disruptions result in cancellations of customer orders or contribute to a general decrease in economic activity or corporate spending on information technology, or directly impact our marketing, manufacturing, financial and logistics functions, or impair our ability to meet our customer demands, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. in addition, our headquarters and one of our major data centers are located in northern california, an area susceptible to earthquakes. if any significant disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business and our financial condition could be impaired. our failure to protect our intellectual property could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. our success depends significantly upon developing, maintaining and protecting proprietary technology. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions with employees, resellers, strategic partners and customers, to protect our proprietary rights. we currently have multiple u.s. and international patent applications pending and multiple u.s. and international patents issued. the pending applications may not be approved, and our existing and future patents may be challenged. if such challenges are brought, the patents may be invalidated. we may not be able to develop proprietary products or technologies that are patentable, and patents issued to us may not provide us with any competitive advantages and may be challenged by third parties. further, the patents of others may materially and adversely affect our ability to do business. in addition, a failure to obtain and defend our trademark registrations may impede our marketing and branding efforts and competitive position. litigation may be necessary to protect our proprietary technology. any such litigation may be time-consuming and costly. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the u.s. our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate or our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products, or design around patents issued to us or other intellectual property rights of ours. we are subject to intellectual property infringement claims. we may, from time to time, receive claims that we are infringing third parties intellectual property rights. third parties may in the future, claim infringement by us with respect to current or future products, patents, trademarks or other proprietary rights. we expect that companies in the network storage and data management market will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. any such claims could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays, require us to redesign our products, or enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. 29 table of contents changes in regulations relating to our products or their components, or the manufacture, sourcing, distribution or use thereof, may harm our business and operating results. the laws and regulations governing the manufacturing, sourcing, distribution and use of our products have become more complex and stringent over time. for example, in addition to various environmental laws relating to carbon emissions and the use and discharge of hazardous materials, the sec has recently adopted regulations concerning the supply of certain minerals originating from the conflict zones of the democratic republic of congo or adjoining countries. we may incur costs to comply with the new disclosure requirements of this law and may realize other costs relating to the sourcing and availability of minerals used in our products. further, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational harm if our customers or other stakeholders conclude that we are unable to verify sufficiently the origins of the minerals used in the products we sell. as the laws and regulations governing our products continue to expand and change, our costs are likely to rise, and the failure to comply with any such laws and regulations could subject us to business interruptions, litigation risks and reputational harm. if a data center or other third-party who relies on our products experiences a disruption in service or a loss of data, such disruption could be attributed to the quality of our products, thereby causing financial or reputational harm to our business. our clients (including data centers, saas, cloud computing and internet infrastructure and bandwidth providers) rely on our products for their data storage needs. we exercise little control over how our clients use or maintain our products, and in some cases improper usage or maintenance could impair the performance of our products. our clients may authorize third-party technology providers to access their data on our systems. because we do not control the transmissions between our clients, their customers, and third-party technology providers, or the processing of such data by third-party technology providers, we cannot ensure the complete integrity or security of such transmissions or processing. errors or wrongdoing by clients, their customers, or third-party technology providers resulting in security breaches may be attributed to us. a failure or inability to meet our clients expectations with respect to security and confidentiality through a disruption in the services provided by these third-party vendors, or the loss of data stored by such vendors, could result in financial or reputational harm to our business to the extent that such disruption or loss is caused by, or perceived by our customers to have been caused by, defects in our products. moreover, the risk of reputational harm may be magnified and/or distorted through the rapid dissemination of information over the internet, including through news articles, blogs, chat rooms, and social media sites. this may affect our ability to retain clients and attract new business. if our security measures are breached or if stored data is improperly accessed, customers may reduce or cease using our solutions, our reputation may be harmed and we may incur significant liabilities. we store and transmit sensitive and proprietary data related to our employees, clients and partners (including third-party vendors such as data centers and providers of saas, cloud computing, and internet infrastructure and bandwidth), and their respective customers, including intellectual property, books of record and personally identifiable information. security breaches could result in unauthorized access to, or loss or unauthorized disclosure of, such information, litigation, indemnity obligations, government investigations and other possible liabilities, as well as negative publicity, which could damage our reputation. additionally, our clients and customers use our platforms for the transmission and storage of sensitive data. we do not regularly monitor or review the information or content that our clients and their customers upload and store, and, therefore, we have no direct control over the substance of the information or content stored within our platforms. therefore, if employees, clients, partners or their respective customers use our platforms for the transmission or storage of personally identifiable or other sensitive information and our security measures are breached as a result of third- 30 table of contents party action, employee error, malfeasance, stolen or fraudulently obtained log-in credentials or otherwise, our reputation could be damaged, our business may be harmed and we could incur significant liabilities. because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. as we continue to increase our client base and expand our brand, we may become more of a target for third parties seeking to compromise our security systems. many jurisdictions have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of data security breaches involving certain types of personal data. these mandatory disclosures regarding security breaches often lead to widespread negative publicity. moreover, the risk of reputational harm may be magnified and/or distorted through the rapid dissemination of information over the internet, including through news articles, blogs, chat rooms, and social media sites. any security breach, whether actual or perceived, could harm our reputation, erode client confidence in the effectiveness of our data security measures, negatively impact our ability to attract new clients, cause existing clients to elect not to renew their support contracts, or subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines or other action or liability, which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. there can be no assurance that the limitations of liability in our contracts would be enforceable or adequate or would otherwise protect us from any such liabilities or damages with respect to any particular claim. our existing general liability insurance coverage and coverage for errors and omissions may not continue to be available on acceptable terms or may not be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, or our insurer may deny coverage as to any future claim. the successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceeds available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse unexpected fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. a change in accounting standards or practices and varying interpretations of existing accounting pronouncements, the increased use of fair value measures, changes to revenue recognition, lease accounting, financial instruments and other accounting standards, and the potential requirement that u.s. registrants prepare financial statements in accordance with international financial reporting standards (ifrs), could have a significant effect on our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. implementation of accounting regulations and related interpretations and policies, particularly those related to revenue recognition, could cause us to defer recognition of revenue or recognize lower revenue, which may affect our results of operations. 31 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk related to fluctuations in interest rates, market prices, and foreign currency exchange rates. we use certain derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange risks. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. all financial instruments are used in accordance with management-approved policies. market risk and market interest risk investment and interest income as of april 26, 2013, we had debt investments of $3.7 billion. our investment portfolio primarily consists of investments with original maturities greater than three months at the date of purchase, which are classified as available-for-sale investments. these investments, which consist primarily of corporate bonds, commercial paper, certificates of deposit, u.s. treasury securities and u.s. government agency securities, are subject to interest rate and interest income risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. conversely, declines in interest rates, including the impact from lower credit spreads, could have a material adverse impact on interest income for our investment portfolio. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in market interest rates from levels as of april 26, 2013 would have resulted in a decrease in the fair value of our fixed-income securities of approximately $45 million. volatility in market interest rates over time will cause variability in our interest income. we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. our investment policy is to limit credit exposure through diversification and investment in highly rated securities. we further mitigate concentrations of credit risk in our investments by limiting our investments in the debt securities of a single issuer and by diversifying risk across geographies and type of issuer. we actively review, along with our investment advisors, current investment ratings, company-specific events and general economic conditions in managing our investments and in determining whether there is a significant decline in fair value that is other-than-temporary. we monitor and evaluate our investment portfolio on a quarterly basis for any other-than-temporary impairments. we are also exposed to market risk relating to our auction rate securities (ars) due to uncertainties in the credit and capital markets. as of april 26, 2013, our holdings in these securities had a par value of $44.9 million and an estimated fair value of $42.0 million. the fair value of our ars may change significantly due to events and conditions in the credit and capital markets. these securities/issuers could be subject to review for possible downgrade. any downgrade in these credit ratings may result in an additional decline in the estimated fair value of our ars. changes in the various assumptions used to value these securities and any increase in the market perceived risk associated with such investments may also result in a decline in the estimated fair value. debt as of april 26, 2013, we have outstanding $1.265 billion principal amount of convertible notes due in june 2013 and $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of our senior notes due in december 2017 and december 2022. we carry these instruments at face value less unamortized discount on our consolidated balance sheets. since these instruments bear interest at fixed rates, we have no financial statement risk associated with changes in interest rates. however, the fair value of these instruments fluctuates when interest rates change, and in the case of convertible notes, when the market price of our stock fluctuates. see note 10 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements for more information. credit facility we are exposed to the impact of changes in interest rates in connection with our $250.0 million five-year revolving credit facility. borrowings under the facility accrue interest at rates that vary based on certain market rates and our credit rating on our senior notes. consequently, our interest expense would fluctuate with any changes in these market interest rates or in our credit rating if we were to borrow any amounts under the credit facility. as of april 26, 2013, no amounts were outstanding under the credit facility. 62 table of contents foreign currency exchange rate risk we hedge risks associated with foreign currency transactions to minimize the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on earnings. we utilize foreign currency exchange forward and option contracts to hedge against the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain foreign-currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities. we also use foreign currency exchange forward contracts to hedge foreign currency exposures related to forecasted sales transactions denominated in certain foreign currencies. these derivatives are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges under accounting guidance for derivatives and hedging. we do not enter into foreign currency exchange contracts for speculative or trading purposes. in entering into foreign currency exchange forward and option contracts, we have assumed the risk that might arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of the contracts. we attempt to limit our exposure to credit risk by executing foreign exchange contracts with creditworthy multinational commercial banks. all contracts have a maturity of less than six months. the following table provides information about our u.s. dollar equivalent foreign currency exchange forward contracts outstanding on april 26, 2013 and april 27, 2012 (in millions): april 26, 2013 april 27, 2012 notional contract amount notional contract amount to sell u.s. dollars $ 158.2 $ 101.1 to purchase u.s. dollars 466.8 540.7 the fair value of these contracts did not differ materially from their notional contract amount. 63 table of contentsrisk factors all information included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k should be considered and understood in the context of the following risk factors, which describe circumstances that may materially harm our future business, operating results or financial condition. the following discussion reflects our current judgment regarding the most significant risks we face. these risks can and will change in the future. our business may be harmed by trends in the storage market or if we are unable to keep pace with rapid industry, technological and market changes. our industry and the market in which we compete have historically experienced significant growth due to the increase in the demand for storage solutions by consumers, enterprises and government bodies around the world, and the resultant purchases of storage solutions to address this demand. however, despite continued data growth, the storage market did not experience growth in calendar year 2013 due to a combination of customers delaying purchases in the face of technology transitions, increased storage efficiency, and changing economic and business environments. recent technology trends, such as the emergence of cloud storage, software as a service (saas) and flash storage and converged architectures are driving significant changes in storage architectures and solution requirements. the impact of these trends on both short-term and long-term growth patterns is uncertain. if the general historical rate of industry growth declines, if the growth rates of the specific market in which we compete decline, or if the consumption model of storage changes and our new and existing products and solutions do not receive customer acceptance, our business, operating results and financial condition could suffer. continuing uncertain economic and political conditions restrict our visibility and may harm our operating results, including our revenue growth and profitability. the continuing global economic uncertainty and political and fiscal challenges in the united states (u.s.) and abroad due to the financial and fiscal crises of recent years have, among other things, limited our ability to forecast future demand for our products, contributed to increased periodic volatility in the computer, storage, and networking industries at large, as well as the information technology (it) market, and could constrain future access to capital for our suppliers, customers and partners. the impacts of these circumstances are global and pervasive, and the timing and nature of any ultimate resolution of these matters remain highly uncertain. additionally, budgetary constraints and shifts in government spending priorities have caused, and may in the future again cause, governments, including the u.s. government, to decrease purchases of storage equipment. consequently, we expect these concerns to challenge our business for the foreseeable future, and potentially cause harm to our operating results. such conditions have resulted, and may in the future again result in failure to meet our forecasted financial expectations and to achieve historical levels of revenue growth. our quarterly operating results may fluctuate materially, which could harm our common stock price. our operating results have fluctuated in the past and will continue to do so, sometimes materially. all of the matters discussed in this risk factor section could impact our operating results in any fiscal quarter or year. in addition to those matters, we face the following issues which could impact our quarterly results: seasonality, such as our historical seasonal decline in revenues in the first quarter of our fiscal year and seasonal increase in revenues in the second quarter of our fiscal year, with the latter due in part to the impact of the u.s. federal government september 30 fiscal year end on the timing of its orders; and linearity, such as our historical intra-quarter bookings and revenue pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter total bookings and related revenue occur in the last month of the quarter. if our operating results fall below our forecasts and the expectations of public market analysts and investors, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline. 17 table of contents our sales and distribution structure makes forecasting revenues difficult and, if disrupted, could harm our operating results. our business and sales models make revenues difficult to forecast. we sell to a variety of customers, with a corresponding variety of sales cycles. in addition, the majority of our sales are made indirectly through channel partners, including value-added resellers, systems integrators, distributors, original equipment manufacturers (oems) and strategic business partners. during fiscal 2014, revenues generated from sales through our indirect channel accounted for 82% of net revenues. this structure significantly complicates our ability to forecast future revenue, particularly within any particular fiscal quarter or year. moreover, our relationships with our indirect channel partners are critical to our success. the loss of one or more of our key indirect channel partners in a given geographic area could harm our operating results, as qualifying and developing new indirect channel partners typically require a significant investment of time and resources before acceptable levels of productivity are met. if we fail to maintain our relationships with our indirect channel partners, if their financial condition, business or customer relationships were to weaken or if they fail to comply with legal or regulatory requirements, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. if we do not achieve forecasted bookings in any quarter, our financial results will be harmed. we derive a majority of our revenues in any given quarter from orders booked in the same quarter. bookings typically follow intra-quarter seasonality patterns weighted toward the back end of the quarter. if we do not achieve the level, timing and mix of bookings consistent with our quarterly targets and historical patterns, or if we experience cancellations of significant orders, our financial results will be harmed. we often incur expenses before we receive related benefits, and expenses may be difficult to reduce quickly if demand declines. we base our expense levels in part on future revenue expectations and a significant percentage of our expenses is fixed. it is difficult to reduce our fixed costs quickly, and if revenue levels are below our expectations, operating results will be adversely impacted. during periods of uneven growth or decline, we may incur costs before we realize the anticipated related benefits, which could also harm our operating results. we have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in engineering, sales, service and support, marketing and other functions to support and grow our business. we are likely to recognize the costs associated with these investments earlier than some of the related anticipated benefits, such as revenue growth, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. any disruption to our supply chain could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. we do not manufacture our products or their components. instead, we rely on third parties to make our products and critical components, such as disk drives, as well as for associated logistics. our lack of direct responsibility for, and control over, these elements of our business, as well as the diverse international geographic locations of our manufacturing partners and suppliers, creates significant risks for us, including, among other things: limited ability to control the quality, quantity and cost of our products or of their components; the potential for binding price or purchase commitments with our suppliers that are higher than market rates; limited ability to adjust production volumes in response to our customers demand fluctuations; labor and political unrest at facilities we do not operate or own; geopolitical disputes disrupting our supply chain; 18 table of contents business, legal compliance, litigation and financial concerns affecting our suppliers or their ability to manufacture and ship our products in the quantities, quality and manner we require; and disruptions due to floods, earthquakes, storms and other natural disasters, particularly in countries with limited infrastructure and disaster recovery resources. such risks have in the past and could again in the future subject us to supply constraints, price increases and minimum purchase requirements and our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. the risks associated with our out-sourced manufacturing model are particularly acute when we transition products to new facilities or manufacturers, introduce and increase volumes of new products or qualify new contract manufacturers or suppliers, at which times our ability to manage the relationships among us, our manufacturing partners and our component suppliers, becomes critical. new manufacturers, products, components or facilities create increased costs and risk that we will fail to deliver high quality products in the required volumes to our customers. any failure of a manufacturer or component supplier to meet our quality, quantity or delivery requirements in a cost-effective manner will harm our business, operating results and customer relationships. we rely on a limited number of suppliers for critical product components. we rely on a limited number of suppliers for drives and other components utilized in the assembly of our products, including certain single source suppliers, which has subjected us, and could in the future subject us to price rigidity, periodic supply constraints, and the inability to produce our products with the quality and in the quantities demanded. when industry supply is constrained, our suppliers may allocate volumes away from us and to our competitors, all of which rely on many of the same suppliers as we do. accordingly, our operating results may be harmed. our gross margins vary. our gross margins reflect a variety of factors, including competitive pricing, component and product design, the volume and relative mix of product, services and software entitlements and maintenance (sem) revenues. increased component costs, increased pricing pressures, the relative and varying rates of increases or decreases in component costs and product prices, changes in product, services and sem revenue mix or decreased volume could harm our revenues, gross margins or earnings. our gross margins are also impacted by the cost of any materials that are of poor quality and our sales and distribution activities, including, without limitation, pricing actions, rebates, sales initiatives and discount levels, and the timing of service contract renewals. the costs of third-party components comprise a significant portion of our product costs. while we generally have been able to manage our component and product design costs, we may have difficulty managing these costs if supplies of certain components become limited or component prices increase. any such limitation could result in an increase in our product costs. an increase in component or design costs relative to our product prices could harm our gross margins and earnings. if we are unable to develop, introduce and gain market acceptance for clustered data ontap-based products or other new products while managing the transition from older products, or if we cannot provide the expected level of quality, service and support for our new products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. our future growth depends upon the successful development and introduction of new hardware and software products. due to the complexity of storage subsystems and appliances and the difficulty in gauging the engineering effort required to produce new products, such products are subject to significant technical and quality control risks. 19 table of contents we are currently devoting considerable effort and resources to develop, introduce and gain customer acceptance for our clustered data ontap-based products (cdot). cdot is our next generation storage operating system for our core products and represents a fundamental and revolutionary change to our solution architecture. over time, our goal is to replace our existing technology data ontap 7-mode with cdot and, consequently, we anticipate that a majority of our revenues will ultimately derive from cdot. we face considerable challenges as we develop and market cdot, including, without limitation, cost and complexity associated with migrating customer data and applications from legacy systems to cdot-based systems, developing some features for cdot currently available with data ontap 7-mode and potentially required by our customers, and maintaining service, support and customer relationships as we replace data ontap 7-mode with cdot. if we are unable, for technological, customer reluctance or other reasons, to develop, introduce and gain market acceptance for cdot, or any other new products, as and when required by the market and our customers, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. new or additional product introductions, including new software and flash product offerings, subject us to additional financial and operational risks, including our ability to forecast customer preferences or demand, our ability to expand production capacity to meet the demand for new products, our ability to successfully manage the transition from older products, and our ability to forecast the impact of customers demand for new products or the products being replaced. in addition, as new or enhanced products are introduced, we must also avoid excessive levels of older product inventories and related components and ensure that enough supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customers demands. further risks inherent in new product introductions include the uncertainty of price-performance relative to products of competitors, competitors responses to the introductions and the desire by customers to evaluate new products for extended periods of time. if these risks are not managed effectively, we could experience material risks to our operations, financial condition and business model. as we enter new or emerging markets, we will likely increase demands on our service and support operations and may be exposed to additional competition. we may not be able to provide products, service and support to effectively compete for these market opportunities. increasing competition and industry consolidation could harm our business and operating results. the storage and data management markets are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapidly changing technology and fragmentation. we compete with many companies in the markets we serve, including companies that offer a broad spectrum of it products and services (full-stack vendors) and others that offer a more limited set of storage and data management products or services. several key competitors have greater financial resources and offer a more diverse portfolio of products and services. by extending our flash and software-defined storage offerings, we are competing in new segments with both traditional competitors and new competitors, particularly smaller emerging storage vendors. in cloud and converged infrastructure, we also compete with large well established competitors. the longer-term potential and competitiveness of these emerging vendors remains to be determined. for information regarding our competitors, see the section entitled competition contained in item 1. busines of this report. it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors might emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. an increase in industry consolidation might result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. in addition, current and potential competitors have established or might establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, including some of our partners. 20 table of contents our oem relationships may not generate significant revenues. we have oem relationships with several companies, which collectively accounted for 9% of our net revenues during the fiscal 2014, compared to 12% during the corresponding period of the prior year. these oems market and sell their branded solutions based on our unified solutions, as well as associated software offerings. while these arrangements are part of our general strategy to expand our reach to more customers and into more countries, we do not have exclusive relationships with our oems, and there is no minimum commitment for any given period of time. we also compete with some of our oems, further complicating our relationships with them. therefore, our relationships with these oems may not continue to generate significant revenues and our total revenues may decline. in addition, we have no control over the products that the oems select to sell, or their release schedule and timing of those products; nor do we control their pricing. a portion of our revenues is generated by large, recurring purchases from various customers, resellers and distributors. a loss, cancellation or delay in purchases by any of these parties has negatively affected us in the past, and in the future could negatively affect our revenues. for fiscal 2014, sales to distributors arrow electronics, inc. and avnet, inc. accounted for 22% and 16%, respectively, of our net revenues. we generally do not enter into binding purchase commitments with our customers, resellers and distributors for extended periods of time, and thus we may not be able to continue to receive large, recurring orders from these customers, resellers or distributors. for example, our reseller agreements generally do not require minimum purchases, and our customers, resellers and distributors can stop purchasing and marketing our products at any time. in addition, unfavorable economic conditions may negatively impact the solvency of our customers, resellers and distributors or the ability of such customers, resellers and distributors to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. if any of our key customers, resellers or distributors changes its pricing practices, reduces the size or frequency of its orders for our products, or stops purchasing our products altogether, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted. reduced u.s. government demand could materially harm our business and operating results. in addition, we could be harmed by claims that we have or a channel partner has failed to comply with regulatory and contractual requirements applicable to sales to the u.s. government. the u.s. government is an important customer for us. however, government demand is uncertain, as it is subject to political and budgetary fluctuations and constraints. recent events, such as the u.s. federal government shutdown in october 2013 and continued uncertainty regarding the u.s. budget and debt levels, has increased demand uncertainty for our products, and has recently resulted in lower sales to these customers. if the u.s. government or an individual agency or multiple agencies within the u.s. government continue to reduce or shift their it spending patterns, our revenues and operating results may be harmed. selling our products to the u.s. government, whether directly or through channel partners, also subjects us to certain regulatory and contractual requirements. failure to comply with these requirements by either us or our channel partners could subject us to investigations, fines, and other penalties, which could materially harm our operating results and financial condition. as an example, the united states department of justice (doj) and the general services administration (gsa) have in the past pursued claims against and financial settlements with it vendors, including us and several of our competitors and channel partners, under the false claims act and other statutes related to pricing and discount practices and compliance with certain provisions of gsa contracts for sales to the federal government. although the doj and gsa currently have no claims pending against us, we could face claims in the future. violations of certain regulatory and contractual requirements could also result in us being suspended or debarred from future government contracting. any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 21 table of contents some of our products are subject to u.s. export control laws and other laws affecting the countries in which our products and services may be sold, distributed, or delivered; any violation of these laws could have a material and adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. due to the global nature of our business, we are subject to import and export restrictions and regulations, including the export administration regulations administered by the commerce department bureau of industry and security (bis) and the trade and economic sanctions regulations administered by the treasury department office of foreign assets control (ofac). the u.s., through the bis and ofac, places restrictions on the sale or export of certain products and services to certain countries and persons. violators of these export control and sanctions laws may be subject to significant penalties, which may include significant monetary fines, criminal proceedings against them and their officers and employees, a denial of export privileges, and suspension or debarment from selling products to the federal government. we take a variety of precautions to prevent our products from being shipped to u.s.-sanctioned targets; however, our products could be shipped to those targets by third parties, including potentially our channel partners, despite such precautions. for instance, media reports starting in november 2011 asserted that certain of our products were delivered to syria through a third-party possibly in violation of u.s. export-control laws. following these media reports, we met with u.s. government officials, provided information at their request, and expressed our willingness to continue cooperating with any further inquiry or investigation. in april 2014, we were notified by the u.s. government that it had completed its review of the matter and determined that we did not violate the u.s. export laws and that the government had closed its inquiry into the matter. however, if in the future we are ever found to have violated u.s. export control laws, we may be subject to various penalties available under the laws, any of which could have a material and adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. as in the case of the media reports regarding syria described above, even if we are not found to have violated such laws, the political and media scrutiny surrounding any governmental investigation of us could cause us significant expense and reputational harm and distract senior executives from managing our normal day-to-day operations. such collateral consequences could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. if we are unable to maintain and develop relationships with strategic partners, our revenues may be harmed. our growth strategy includes developing and maintaining strategic partnerships with major third-party software and hardware vendors to integrate our products into their products and also co-market our products with them. a detailed description of these partnership relationships is identified in the business section of this annual report. a number of these strategic partners are industry leaders that offer us expanded access to segments of the storage and data management market. however, there is intense competition for attractive strategic partners, and these relationships may not be exclusive, may not generate significant revenues and may be terminated on short notice. for instance, some of our partners are also partnering with our competitors, which may increase the availability of competing solutions and harm our ability to grow our relationships with those partners. moreover, some of our partners, particularly large, more diversified technology companies, are also competitors, complicating our relationships. if we are unable to establish new partnerships or maintain existing partnerships, if our strategic partners favor their relationships with other vendors in the storage industry or if our strategic partners increasingly compete with us, we could experience lower than expected revenues, suffer delays in product development, or experience other harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. our failure to adjust to emerging standards in the storage industry may harm our business. emerging standards in the storage and data management markets may adversely affect the unix &reg; , windows &reg; and the world wide web server markets upon which we depend. for example, we provide our open access data retention solutions to customers within the financial services, healthcare, pharmaceutical and government market segments, industries that are subject to various evolving governmental regulations with 22 table of contents respect to data access, reliability and permanence (such as rule 17(a)(4) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended) in the u.s. and in the other countries in which we operate. if our products do not meet and continue to comply with these evolving governmental regulations in this regard, customers in these market and geographical segments will not purchase our products, and we will not be able to expand our product offerings in these market and geographical segments at the rates which we have forecasted. if our products are defective, our gross margins, operating results and customer relationships may be harmed. our products are complex. we have experienced in the past, and expect to experience in the future, quality issues. quality risk is most acute when we are introducing new products. quality issues have and could again in the future cause customers to experience outages or disruptions in service, data loss or data corruption. if we fail to remedy a product defect, we may experience a failure of a product line, temporary or permanent withdrawal from a product or market, damage to our reputation, loss of revenue, inventory costs or product reengineering expenses and higher ongoing warranty and service costs, and these occurrences could have a material impact on our gross margins, business and operating results. customers and we may experience losses that may result from or are alleged to result from defects in our products, which could subject us to claims for damages, including consequential damages. due to the global nature of our business, risks inherent in our international operations could materially harm our business. a significant portion of our operations are located, and a significant portion of our revenues are derived, outside of the u.s. for fiscal 2014, our international revenues accounted for 51% of our net revenues. in addition, a substantial portion of our products are manufactured outside of the u.s., and we have research and development and service centers overseas. accordingly, our business and our future operating results could be adversely affected by factors affecting our international operations, but not experienced in the u.s., including, among other things, local political or economic conditions, trade protection and export and import requirements, local labor conditions, transportation costs, government spending patterns, acts of terrorism, international conflicts and natural disasters in areas with limited infrastructure. in addition, due to the global nature of our business, we are subject to complex legal and regulatory requirements in the u.s. and the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate and sell our products, including antitrust and anti-competition laws, rules and regulations, and regulations related to data privacy. we are also subject to the potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation, or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than u.s. laws. such factors could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. we utilize forward and option contracts in an attempt to reduce the adverse earnings impact from the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on certain assets and liabilities as well as certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows on a short-term basis. our hedging strategies may not be successful, and currency exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. in addition, our foreign currency exposure on assets and liabilities for which we do not hedge could have a material impact on our results of operations in periods when the u.s. dollar significantly fluctuates in relation to unhedged non-u.s. currencies in which we transact business. additional risks inherent in our international business activities generally include, among others, longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in managing international operations. moreover, in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures, or u.s. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act. there can be no assurance that all of our 23 table of contents employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, will comply with these policies, procedures, laws and/or regulations. any such violation could subject us to fines and other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. changes in our effective tax rate or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results. our effective tax rate is influenced by a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. these factors include among other things, fluctuations in our earnings and financial results in the various countries and states in which we do business and changes to the tax laws in such jurisdictions. any of these factors could materially impact our operating results. we receive significant tax benefits from sales to our non-u.s. customers. these benefits are contingent upon existing tax laws and regulations in the u.s. and in the countries in which our international operations are located. future changes in domestic or international tax laws and regulations could adversely affect our ability to continue to realize these tax benefits. we have not provided for u.s. federal and state income taxes or foreign withholding taxes that may result from future remittances of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. the united states, countries in the european union and other countries where we do business have been considering changes in relevant tax laws applicable to multinational corporations such as ours. these potential changes could adversely affect our effective tax rate or result in higher cash tax liabilities. we are currently undergoing income tax audits in the u.s. and several foreign tax jurisdictions, as described in note 13 to our consolidated financial statements. the u.s. and foreign tax authorities have questioned our intercompany transfer pricing arrangements during these audits. in recent years, several other u.s. companies have had their transfer pricing arrangements challenged as part of internal revenue service (irs) examinations, which have resulted in material proposed assessments and/or litigation with respect to those companies. if the ultimate determination of income taxes or at-source withholding taxes assessed under the current irs audits or audits being conducted in any other tax jurisdiction results in an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows and financial condition would be adversely affected. our international operations currently benefit from a tax ruling concluded in the netherlands which expires on april 30, 2015 and results in a lower level of earnings subject to tax in the netherlands. if we are unable to negotiate a similar tax ruling upon expiration of the current ruling, our effective tax rate could increase and our operating results could be adversely affected. our effective tax rate could also be adversely affected by different and evolving interpretations of existing law or regulations, which in turn would negatively impact our operating and financial results as a whole. additionally, our effective tax rate could also be adversely affected if there is a change in international operations and how the operations are managed and structured. the price of our common stock could decline to the extent that our financial results are materially affected by an adverse change in our effective tax rate. our failure to pay quarterly dividends to our stockholders and to fully consummate our stock repurchase program could cause the market price of our stock to decline significantly. our ability to pay quarterly dividends and to continue to execute our stock repurchase program as planned will be subject to, among other things, our financial condition and results of operations, available cash and cash flow in the u.s, capital requirements, and other factors. future dividends are subject to declaration by our board of directors, and our stock repurchase program does not obligate us to acquire any specific number of shares. if we fail to meet any expectations related to dividends and/or stock repurchases, the market price of our stock could decline significantly, and could have a material adverse impact on investor confidence. additionally, price volatility of our stock over a given period may cause the average price at which we repurchase our own stock to exceed the stock market price at a given point in time. 24 table of contents our acquisitions may not achieve expected benefits, and may increase our liabilities, disrupt our existing business and harm our results of operations. as part of our strategy, we seek to acquire other businesses and technologies to complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets, or enhance our technical capabilities. in fiscal 2012, we completed the acquisition of certain assets related to engenio, and in fiscal 2013, we completed the acquisitions of cacheiq and iongrid. the benefits we expect to receive from these and other acquisitions depend on our ability to successfully conduct due diligence, negotiate the terms of the acquisition and integrate the acquired business. any inaccuracy in our acquisition assumptions, any failure to uncover liabilities or risks associated with the acquisition, any failure to make the acquisition on favorable terms, or any failure to integrate the acquired business or assets as and when expected, may reduce or eliminate the expected benefits of the acquisition to us, increase our costs, disrupt our operations, result in additional liabilities, investigations and litigation, and may also harm our strategy, our results of operations or our business. the failure to achieve expected acquisition benefits may also result in impairment charges for goodwill and purchased intangible assets. we are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates; impairment of our investments could harm our financial results. we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. a significant part of our investment portfolio consists of u.s. government securities. if global credit experiences prolonged periods of decline, or if there is a downgrade of u.s. government debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely impacted and we could determine that more of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial results. for a summary of these investments and our management of the same, please see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in this document. we are exposed to the credit and non-payment risk of our customers, resellers and distributors, especially during times of economic uncertainty and tight credit markets, which could result in material losses. most of our sales to customers are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of 30 days. while we monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, and seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe are reasonable, we may experience losses due to a customer inability to pay. beyond our open credit arrangements, some of our customers have entered into recourse and non-recourse financing leasing arrangements using third-party leasing companies. under the terms of recourse leases, which are generally three years or less, we remain liable for the aggregate unpaid remaining lease payments to the third-party leasing companies in the event of end-user customer default. we expect demand for customer financing to continue. during periods of economic uncertainty, our exposure to credit risks from our customers increases. in addition, our exposure to credit risks of our customers may increase further if our customers and their customers or their lease financing sources are adversely affected by global economic conditions. in the past, there have been bankruptcies by our customers to whom we had extended open credit, provided lease financing arrangements or guaranteed lease payments under full recourse lease arrangements. such events have caused us to incur bad debt charges, in the case of financing arrangements have caused a loss of revenues, and in the case of recourse lease arrangements have caused us to make payments to third-party financers. we may be subject to similar losses in future periods. any future losses could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. additionally, to the extent that turmoil in the credit markets makes it more difficult for customers to obtain open credit or lease financing, those customers ability to purchase our products could be adversely impacted, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. 25 table of contents a repatriation of cash held by our foreign subsidiaries to fund u.s. operations, strategic opportunities or debt service may subject us to a significant tax liability. as of april 25, 2014, $4.3 billion of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments was held by our foreign subsidiaries. under current law, repatriation of this cash may trigger significant adverse tax consequences in the u.s. as a result, if the cash generated by our domestic operations is not sufficient to fund our domestic operations and our broader corporate initiatives, such as stock repurchases, dividends, acquisitions, and other strategic opportunities; and to service our outstanding indebtedness, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings, or we may need to obtain new credit facilities to the extent we choose not to repatriate our overseas cash. such additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all, and any new equity financings or offerings would dilute our current stockholders ownership. furthermore, lenders may not agree to extend us new, additional or continuing credit. if adequate funds are not available, or are not available on acceptable terms, we may be forced to repatriate our foreign-held cash and incur a significant tax expense. in any such case, our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely impacted if we default under our significant debt obligations, including our senior notes and our recently issued notes, our business, operating results and financial condition will be harmed. moreover, covenants associated with our senior notes may unduly restrict our business. we have senior notes outstanding as of april 25, 2014 in an aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion that mature at specific dates in calendar 2017 and 2022. we have also established a revolving credit facility under which we may borrow an aggregate amount outstanding at any time of $250.0 million, under which we had no borrowings outstanding as of april 25, 2014. in addition, on june 5, 2014, we issued $500.0 million of senior notes that mature in calendar 2021. we may fail to pay these obligations, as and when required. specifically, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service or refinance our debt, our business, operating results and financial condition will be harmed. in addition, our debt and credit facility arrangements subject us to continued compliance with restrictive and financial covenants. if we do not comply with these covenants or otherwise default under the arrangements, we may be required to repay any outstanding amounts borrowed under these agreements. moreover, compliance with these covenants may restrict our strategic or operational flexibility in the future, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. we have in the past and may in the future incur restructuring charges and asset impairment in response to changing market conditions or cost-cutting initiatives. we have in the past undertaken cost savings initiatives in response to changes in market conditions and market demand for our products. for example, in may 2013 and march 2014 we executed restructuring events designed to focus our resources on key strategic initiatives and streamline our business in light of the constrained it spending environment. as a result, we recognized substantial restructuring expenses. we may in the future undertake initiatives that may include restructuring, disposing of, and/or otherwise discontinuing certain products, or both. any decision to take these actions may result in charges to earnings associated with, among other things, inventory or other fixed, intangible or goodwill asset reductions (including, without limitation, impairment charges), workforce and facility reductions and penalties and claims from third party resellers or users of discontinued products. these charges would harm our operating results. in addition to the costs associated with these activities, we may not realize any of the anticipated benefits of the underlying restructuring activities. 26 table of contents we are continually seeking ways to make our cost structure, business processes and systems more efficient, including by moving activities from higher-cost to lower-cost locations, outsourcing certain business processes and functions, and implementing new business information systems. problems with the execution of these activities could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. we continuously seek to make our cost structure and business processes more efficient, including by moving our business activities from higher-cost to lower-cost locations, outsourcing certain business processes and functions, and implementing changes to our business information systems. these efforts involve a significant investment of financial and human resources and significant changes to our current operating processes. in addition, as we move operations into lower-cost jurisdictions and outsource certain business processes, we become subject to new regulatory regimes and lose control of certain aspects of our operations and, as a consequence, become more dependent upon the systems and business processes of third-parties. if we are unable to move our operations, outsource business processes and implement new business information systems in a manner that complies with local law and maintains adequate standards, controls and procedures, the quality of our products and services may suffer and we may be subject to increased litigation risk, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel and to preserve the key aspects of our corporate culture. because our future success is dependent on our ability to continue to enhance and introduce new products, we are particularly dependent on our ability to hire and retain qualified engineers. competition for qualified employees, particularly in silicon valley, is intense. the loss of the services of a significant number of our employees, particularly our engineers, salespeople and key managers, could be disruptive to our development efforts or business relationships and could materially and adversely affect our operating results. equity grants are a critical component of our current compensation programs. if we reduce, modify or eliminate our equity programs, due to increased shareholder activism, heightened focus on corporate compensation practices, or increased scrutiny of the dilutive effects of such programs, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining critical employees. in addition, because of the structure of our cash and equity incentive compensation plans, we may be at increased risk of losing employees at certain times. for example, the retention value of our compensation plans decreases after the payment of annual bonuses or the vesting of equity awards. our business could be materially and adversely affected as a result of a natural disaster, terrorist acts or other catastrophic events. we depend on the ability of our personnel, raw materials, equipment and products to move reasonably unimpeded around the world. any political, military, terrorism, global trade, world health or other issue that hinders this movement or restricts the import or export of materials could lead to significant business disruptions. furthermore, any economic failure or other material disruption caused by natural disasters, including fires, floods, hurricanes, earthquakes, and volcanoes; power loss or shortages; environmental disasters; telecommunications or business information systems failures or break-ins and similar events could also adversely affect our ability to conduct business. if such disruptions result in cancellations of customer orders or contribute to a general decrease in economic activity or corporate spending on information technology, or directly impact our marketing, manufacturing, financial and logistics functions, or impair our ability to meet our customer demands, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. in addition, our headquarters and one of our major data centers are located in northern california, an area susceptible to earthquakes. if any significant disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business and our financial condition could be impaired. 27 table of contents our failure to protect our intellectual property could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. our success depends significantly upon developing, maintaining and protecting proprietary technology. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions with employees, resellers, strategic partners and customers, to protect our proprietary rights. we currently have multiple u.s. and international patent applications pending and multiple u.s. and international patents issued. the pending applications may not be approved, and our existing and future patents may be challenged. if such challenges are brought, the patents may be invalidated. we may not be able to develop proprietary products or technologies that are patentable, and patents issued to us may not provide us with any competitive advantages and may be challenged by third parties. further, the patents of others may materially and adversely affect our ability to do business. in addition, a failure to obtain and defend our trademark registrations may impede our marketing and branding efforts and competitive condition. litigation may be necessary to protect our proprietary technology. any such litigation may be time-consuming and costly. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the u.s. our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate or our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products, or design around patents issued to us or other intellectual property rights of ours. we are subject to intellectual property infringement claims. we may, from time to time, receive claims that we are infringing third parties intellectual property rights. third parties may in the future, claim infringement by us with respect to current or future products, patents, trademarks or other proprietary rights. we expect that companies in the network storage and data management market will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. any such claims could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays, require us to redesign our products, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. changes in regulations relating to our products or their components, or the manufacture, sourcing, distribution or use thereof, may harm our business and operating results. the laws and regulations governing the manufacturing, sourcing, distribution and use of our products have become more complex and stringent over time. for example, in addition to various environmental laws relating to carbon emissions and the use and discharge of hazardous materials, the sec has recently adopted regulations concerning the supply of certain minerals originating from the conflict zones of the democratic republic of congo or adjoining countries. we may incur costs to comply with the new disclosure requirements of this law and may realize other costs relating to the sourcing and availability of minerals used in our products. further, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational harm if our customers or other stakeholders conclude that we are unable to verify sufficiently the origins of the minerals used in the products we sell. as the laws and regulations governing our products continue to expand and change, our costs are likely to rise, and the failure to comply with any such laws and regulations could subject us to business interruptions, litigation risks and reputational harm. 28 table of contents if a data center or other third-party who relies on our products experiences a disruption in service or a loss of data, such disruption could be attributed to the quality of our products, thereby causing financial or reputational harm to our business. our clients (including data centers, saas, cloud computing and internet infrastructure and bandwidth providers) rely on our products for their data storage needs. we exercise little control over how our clients use or maintain our products, and in some cases improper usage or maintenance could impair the performance of our products. our clients may authorize third-party technology providers to access their data on our systems. because we do not control the transmissions between our clients, their customers, and third-party technology providers, or the processing of such data by third-party technology providers, we cannot ensure the complete integrity or security of such transmissions or processing. errors or wrongdoing by clients, their customers, or third-party technology providers resulting in security breaches may be attributed to us. a failure or inability to meet our clients expectations with respect to security and confidentiality through a disruption in the services provided by these third-party vendors, or the loss of data stored by such vendors, could result in financial or reputational harm to our business to the extent that such disruption or loss is caused by, or perceived by our customers to have been caused by, defects in our products. moreover, the risk of reputational harm may be magnified and/or distorted through the rapid dissemination of information over the internet, including through news articles, blogs, chat rooms, and social media sites. this may affect our ability to retain clients and attract new business. if a cybersecurity or other security breach occurs on our systems or on our end user customer systems, or if stored data is improperly accessed, customers may reduce or cease using our solutions, our reputation may be harmed and we may incur significant liabilities. we store and transmit sensitive and proprietary data related to our employees, customers, clients and partners (including third-party vendors such as data centers and providers of saas, cloud computing, and internet infrastructure and bandwidth), and their respective customers, including intellectual property, books of record and personally identifiable information. in the current environment there are numerous and evolving risks to cybersecurity and privacy, including criminal hackers, state-sponsored intrusions, industrial espionage, human error and technological vulnerabilities. cybersecurity incidents or other security breaches could result in unauthorized access to, or loss or unauthorized disclosure of, such information, litigation, indemnity obligations, government investigations and other possible liabilities, as well as negative publicity, which could damage our reputation and public perception of the security and reliability of our products. additionally, our clients and customers use our platforms for the transmission and storage of sensitive data. we do not regularly monitor or review the information or content that our clients and their customers upload and store, and, therefore, we have no direct control over the substance of the information or content stored within our platforms. therefore, if employees, clients, partners or their respective customers use our platforms for the transmission or storage of personally identifiable or other sensitive information and our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance, stolen or fraudulently obtained log-in credentials or otherwise, our reputation could be damaged, our business may be harmed and we could incur significant liabilities. because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. as we continue to increase our client base and expand our brand, we may become more of a target for third parties seeking to compromise our security systems. many jurisdictions have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of data security breaches involving certain types of personal data. these mandatory disclosures regarding security breaches often lead to widespread negative publicity. moreover, the risk of reputational harm may be magnified and/or distorted through the rapid dissemination of information over the internet, including through news articles, blogs, chat 29 table of contents rooms, and social media sites. any security breach, whether actual or perceived, could harm our reputation, erode customer confidence in the effectiveness of our data security measures, negatively impact our ability to attract new customers, cause existing customers to elect not to renew their support contracts, or subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines or other action or liability, which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. there can be no assurance that the limitations of liability in our contracts would be enforceable or adequate or would otherwise protect us from any such liabilities or damages with respect to any particular claim. our existing general liability insurance coverage and coverage for errors and omissions may not continue to be available on acceptable terms or may not be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, or our insurers may deny coverage as to any future claim. the successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceeds available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse unexpected fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. a change in accounting standards or practices and varying interpretations of existing accounting pronouncements, the increased use of fair value measures, changes to revenue recognition, lease accounting, financial instruments and other accounting standards could have a significant effect on our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. implementation of accounting regulations and related interpretations and policies, particularly those related to revenue recognition, could cause us to defer recognition of revenue or recognize lower revenue, which may affect our results of operations. 30 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk related to fluctuations in interest rates, market prices, and foreign currency exchange rates. we use certain derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange risks. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. all financial instruments are used in accordance with management-approved policies. market risk and market interest risk investment and interest income as of april 25, 2014, we had debt investments of $2.7 billion. our investment portfolio primarily consists of investments with original maturities greater than three months at the date of purchase, which are classified as available-for-sale investments. these investments, which consist primarily of corporate bonds, commercial paper, certificates of deposit, u.s. treasury securities and u.s. government agency securities, are subject to interest rate and interest income risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. conversely, declines in interest rates, including the impact from lower credit spreads, could have a material adverse impact on interest income for our investment portfolio. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in market interest rates from levels as of april 25, 2014 would have resulted in a decrease in the fair value of our debt securities of approximately $27 million. volatility in market interest rates over time will cause variability in our interest income. we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. our investment policy is to limit credit exposure through diversification and investment in highly rated securities. we further mitigate concentrations of credit risk in our investments by limiting our investments in the debt securities of a single issuer and by diversifying risk across geographies and type of issuer. we actively review, along with our investment advisors, current investment ratings, company-specific events and general economic conditions in managing our investments and in determining whether there is a significant decline in fair value that is other-than-temporary. we monitor and evaluate our investment portfolio on a quarterly basis for any other-than-temporary impairments. we are also exposed to market risk relating to our auction rate securities (arss) due to uncertainties in the credit and capital markets. as of april 25, 2014, our holdings in these securities had a par value of $36.9 million and an estimated fair value of $36.0 million. the fair value of our arss may change significantly due to events and conditions in the credit and capital markets. these securities/issuers could be subject to review for possible downgrade. any downgrade in these credit ratings may result in an additional decline in the estimated fair value of our arss. changes in the various assumptions used to value these securities and any increase in the market perceived risk associated with such investments may also result in a decline in the estimated fair value. debt as of april 25, 2014, we have outstanding $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes. we carry these instruments at face value less unamortized discount on our consolidated balance sheets. since these instruments bear interest at fixed rates, we have no financial statement risk associated with changes in interest rates. however, the fair value of these instruments fluctuates when interest rates change. see note 9 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements for more information. credit facility we are exposed to the impact of changes in interest rates in connection with our $250.0 million five-year revolving credit facility. borrowings under the facility accrue interest at rates that vary based on certain market rates and our credit rating on our senior notes. consequently, our interest expense would fluctuate with any changes in these market interest rates or in our credit rating if we were to borrow any amounts under the credit facility. as of april 25, 2014, no amounts were outstanding under the credit facility. 61 table of contents foreign currency exchange rate risk we hedge risks associated with foreign currency transactions to minimize the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on earnings. we utilize foreign currency exchange forward and option contracts to hedge against the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain foreign-currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities. we also use foreign currency exchange forward contracts to hedge foreign currency exposures related to forecasted sales transactions denominated in certain foreign currencies. these derivatives are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges under accounting guidance for derivatives and hedging. we do not enter into foreign currency exchange contracts for speculative or trading purposes. in entering into foreign currency exchange forward and option contracts, we have assumed the risk that might arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of the contracts. we attempt to limit our exposure to credit risk by executing foreign exchange contracts with creditworthy multinational commercial banks. as of april 25, 2014 and april 26, 2013, all contracts had a maturity of less than six months. the following table provides information about our u.s. dollar equivalent foreign currency exchange forward contracts outstanding on april 25, 2014 and april 26, 2013 (in millions): april 25, 2014 april 26, 2013 notional contract amount notional contract amount forward contracts sold $ 155.5 $ 158.2 forward contracts purchased 512.5 466.8 the fair value of these contracts did not differ materially from their notional contract amounts. 62 table of contents