quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the market risk inherent in our financial instruments represents the potential loss in fair value, earnings or cash flows arising from adverse changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates. we manage these exposures through operating and financing activities and, when appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. our policy allows for the use of derivative financial instruments for identifiable market risk exposures, including interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations. we do not enter into derivative financial contracts for trading or other speculative purposes. the following quantitative disclosures were derived using quoted market prices and theoretical pricing models obtained through independent pricing sources for the same or similar types of financial instruments, taking into consideration the underlying terms and maturities. the quantitative disclosures discussed below do not represent the maximum possible loss nor any expected loss that may occur since actual results may differ from those estimates. foreign currency exchange rates foreign currency exposures arise from transactions, including firm commitments and anticipated contracts, denominated in a currency other than an entity's functional currency and from foreign-denominated revenues translated into u.s. dollars. from time to time, we hedge exposures to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations with forward foreign exchange contracts. with respect to foreign operations, substantially all of our foreign subsidiaries operate in their respective functional currencies. our primary foreign currency exposures relate to our euro debt and euro investments. the potential loss in value at march 31, 2001 on our euro debt and euro investments based on a hypothetical 10.0% adverse change in the euro rate would have been $21.7 million and $4.5 million. as of march 31, 2001, a hypothetical immediate 10.0% adverse change in the euro rate on the euro debt and euro investments would have a $1.3 million and $0.2 million unfavorable impact on our earnings and cash flows in fiscal 2002. interest rates our primary interest rate exposure relates to our fixed and variable rate debt. the fair value of our fixed euro debt was $217.1 million based on its quoted market price as listed on the london stock exchange and using exchange rates in effect as of march 31, 2001. the potential loss in value at march 31, 2001 on our fixed euro debt based on a hypothetical 10.0% adverse change in the interest rate would have been $21.7 million. at march 31, 2001, the carrying value of amounts outstanding of $166.1 million under our variable debt borrowing arrangements under our bank credit facilities approximated their fair value. we employ an interest rate hedging strategy utilizing swaps to effectively fix a portion of our interest rate exposure on our floating rate financing arrangements. at march 31, 2001, we had interest rate swap agreements with a notional amount of $100.0 million which fixed the interest rate on our variable rate debt at 5.5%. as of march 31, 2001, a hypothetical immediate 10.0% adverse change in interest rates relating to our unhedged portion of our variable rate debt would have a $0.4 million unfavorable impact on our earnings and cash flows in fiscal 2002.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the market risk inherent in our financial instruments represents the potential loss in fair value, earnings or cash flows arising from adverse changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates. we manage these exposures through operating and financing activities and, when appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. our policy allows for the use of derivative financial instruments for identifiable market risk exposures, including interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations. the following quantitative disclosures are based on quoted market prices and theoretical pricing models obtained through independent pricing sources for the same or similar types of financial instruments, taking into consideration the underlying terms and maturities. these quantitative disclosures do not represent the maximum possible loss or any expected loss that may occur, since actual results may differ from those estimates. foreign currency exchange rates foreign currency exposures arise from transactions, including firm commitments and anticipated contracts, denominated in a currency other than an entity's functional currency, and from foreign-denominated revenues translated into u.s. dollars. from time to time, we hedge exposures to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations with forward foreign exchange contracts. with respect to foreign operations, substantially all of our foreign subsidiaries operate in their respective functional currencies. our primary foreign currency exposures relate to our euro debt and euro investments. the potential loss in value on our euro debt and euro investments based on a hypothetical immediate 10.0% adverse change in the euro rate would have been $20.5 million and $1.7 million at march 30, 2002, as compared to $21.7 million and $4.5 million at march 31, 2001. as of march 30, 2002, a hypothetical immediate 10.0% adverse change in the euro rate on the euro debt and euro investments would have a $1.3 million and $0.1 million unfavorable impact on our earnings and cash flows in fiscal 2003. interest rates our primary interest rate exposure relates to our fixed and variable rate debt. the fair value of our fixed euro debt was $199.6 million based on its quoted market price as listed on the london stock exchange and using euro exchange rates in effect as of march 30, 2002. the potential loss in value at march 30, 2002 on our fixed euro debt based on a hypothetical immediate 10.0% adverse change in the interest rate would have been $1.3 million. at march 30, 2002, the carrying value of amounts outstanding of $113.0 million under our variable debt 39 borrowing arrangements under our bank credit facilities approximated their fair value. we employ an interest rate hedging strategy utilizing swaps to effectively fix a portion of our interest rate exposure on our floating rate financing arrangements. at march 30, 2002, we had interest rate swap agreements with a notional amount of $100.0 million which fixed the interest rate on our variable rate debt at 5.5%. as of march 30, 2002, a hypothetical immediate 10.0% adverse change in interest rates relating to our unhedged portion of our variable rate debt would have a $0.1 million unfavorable impact on our earnings and cash flows in fiscal 2003.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the market risk inherent in our financial instruments represents the potential loss in fair value, earnings or cash flows arising from adverse changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates. we manage these exposures through operating and financing activities and, when appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. our policy allows for the use of derivative financial instruments for identifiable market risk exposures, including interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations. during fiscal 2003, there were significant fluctuations in the value of the euro dollar exchange rate. in june 2002, we entered into a cross currency rate swap to minimize the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations on the long-term euro debt and the impact of fluctuations in the interest rate on the fair value of the long-term euro debt. the following quantitative disclosures are based on quoted market prices and theoretical pricing models obtained through independent pricing sources for the same or similar types of financial instruments, taking into consideration 41 the underlying terms and maturities. these quantitative disclosures do not represent the maximum possible loss or any expected loss that may occur, since actual results may differ from those estimates. foreign currency exchange rates we are exposed to market risk related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we have assets and liabilities denominated in certain foreign currencies related to international subsidiaries. at march 29, 2003, we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts in europe to purchase $92.5 million u.s. dollars through march 2004. we believe that these financial instruments should not subject us to undue risk due to foreign exchange movements because gains and losses on these contracts should offset losses and gains on the assets, liabilities, and transactions being hedged. we are exposed to credit-related losses if the counterparty to the financial instruments fails to perform its obligations. however, we do not expect the counterparty, which presently has high credit ratings, to fail to meet its obligations. our primary foreign currency exposure relates to our euro debt. as of march 29, 2003, the fair value of our fixed euro debt was $252.4 million, based on its quoted market price as listed on the london stock exchange and translated using euro exchange rates in effect as of march 29, 2003. the potential increase in fair value of our fixed rate euro debt resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in exchange rates would have been approximately $27.2 million at march 29, 2003. as of march 29, 2003, a hypothetical immediate 10% adverse change in exchange rates would have had a $1.7 million unfavorable impact over a one-year period on our earnings and cash flows. we employ a cross-currency fair value hedging strategy utilizing swaps to effectively convert a portion of our euro-denominated debt into usd-denominated debt. for further information, see note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. interest rates our primary interest rate exposure relates to our fixed and variable rate debt. the potential increase in fair value of our fixed rate euro debt resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in interest rates would have been approximately $3.7 million at march 29, 2003. we employ a fair value cross currency hedging strategy utilizing swaps to effectively float a portion of our interest rate exposure on our fixed rate euro debt. the primary interest rate exposure on floating rate financing arrangements are with respect to the united states. we had approximately $100.9 million in variable rate financing arrangements at march 29, 2003. as of march 29, 2003, a hypothetical immediate 10% adverse change in interest rates, as they relate to the maximum available borrowings under our variable rate financial instruments, would have a $0.9 million unfavorable impact over a one-year period on our earnings and cash flows. we employ an interest rate hedging strategy utilizing swaps to effectively fix substantially all of our interest rate exposure on our outstanding variable rate debt. for further information, see note 12 to our consolidated financial statements.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the market risk inherent in our financial instruments represents the potential loss in fair value, earnings or cash flows arising from adverse changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates. we manage these exposures through operating and financing activities and, when appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. our policy allows for the use of derivative financial instruments for identifiable market risk exposures, including interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations. during fiscal 2004, there were significant fluctuations in the value of the euro to dollar exchange rate. in june 2002, we entered into a cross currency rate swap to minimize the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations on the long-term euro debt and the impact of fluctuations in the interest rate on the fair value of the long-term euro debt. in may 2003, we terminated the cross currency rate swap, and entered into an interest rate swap, to minimize the impact of changes in the fair value of the euro debt due to changes in euribor, the benchmark interest rate. the following quantitative disclosures are based on quoted market prices and theoretical pricing models obtained through independent pricing sources for the same or similar types of financial instruments, taking into consideration the underlying terms and maturities. these quantitative disclosures do not represent the maximum possible loss or any expected loss that may occur, since actual results may differ from those estimates. foreign currency exchange rates we are exposed to market risk related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we have assets and liabilities denominated in certain foreign currencies related to international subsidiaries. at april 3, 2004, we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts in europe and japan to purchase $144.9 million u.s. dollars through march 2004. we believe that these financial instruments should not subject us to undue risk due to foreign exchange movements because gains and losses on these contracts should offset losses and gains on the assets, liabilities, and transactions being hedged. we are exposed to credit-related losses if the counterparty to the financial instruments fails to perform its obligations. however, we do not expect the counterparty, which presently has high credit ratings, to fail to meet its obligations. 51 table of contents our primary foreign currency exposure relates to our euro debt. as of april 3, 2004, the fair value of our fixed euro debt was $292.6 million, based on its quoted market price as listed on the london stock exchange and translated using euro exchange rates in effect as of april 3, 2004. the potential increase in fair value of our fixed rate euro debt resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in exchange rates would have been approximately $29.3 million at april 3, 2004. as of april 3, 2004, a hypothetical immediate 10% adverse change in exchange rates would have had a $1.8 million unfavorable impact over a one-year period on our earnings and cash flows. interest rates our primary interest rate exposure relates to our fixed rate debt. the potential increase in fair value of our fixed rate euro debt resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in interest rates would have been approximately $4.1 million at april 3, 2004. we employ a fair value hedging strategy utilizing interest rate swaps to effectively float a portion of our interest rate exposure on our fixed rate euro debt. on april 6, 2004, the company executed an interest rate swap to convert the fixed interest rate on 50 million of the eurobonds to a floating rate. after the execution of this swap, approximately 77 million of eurobonds remained at fixed interest rate.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the market risk inherent in our financial instruments represents the potential loss in fair value, earnings or cash flows arising from adverse changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates. we manage these exposures through operating and financing activities and, when appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. our policy allows for the use of derivative financial instruments for identifiable market risk exposures, including interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations. during fiscal 2005, there were significant fluctuations in the value of the euro to dollar exchange rate. in june 2002, we entered into a cross currency rate swap to minimize the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations on the long-term euro debt and the impact of fluctuations in the interest rate on the fair value of the long-term euro debt. in may 2003, we terminated the cross currency rate swap, and entered into an interest rate swap, to minimize the impact of changes in the fair value of the euro debt due to changes in euribor, the benchmark interest rate. the following quantitative disclosures are based on quoted market prices and theoretical pricing models obtained through independent pricing sources for the same or similar types of financial instruments, taking into consideration the underlying terms and maturities. these 53 table of contents quantitative disclosures do not represent the maximum possible loss or any expected loss that may occur, since actual results may differ from those estimates. foreign currency exchange rates we are exposed to market risk related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we have assets and liabilities denominated in certain foreign currencies related to international subsidiaries. at april 2, 2005, we had the following foreign exchange contracts outstanding: (i) to deliver 94.3 million in exchange for $124.3 million through fiscal 2005 and (ii) to deliver 11,389 million in exchange for $99.6 million through fiscal 2008. we believe that these financial instruments should not subject us to undue risk due to foreign exchange movements because gains and losses on these contracts should offset losses and gains on the assets, liabilities, and transactions being hedged. we are exposed to credit-related losses if the counterparty to the financial instruments fails to perform its obligations. however, we do not expect the counterparty, which presently has high credit ratings, to fail to meet its obligations. our primary foreign currency exposure relates to our euro debt. as of april 2, 2005, the fair value of our fixed euro debt was $306.9 million, based on its quoted market price as listed on the london stock exchange and translated using euro exchange rates in effect as of april 2, 2005. the potential increase in fair value of our fixed rate euro debt resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in exchange rates would have been approximately $30.7 million at april 2, 2005. as of april 2, 2005, a hypothetical immediate 10% adverse change in exchange rates would have had a $6.5 million unfavorable impact over a one-year period on our earnings and cash flows. interest rates our primary interest rate exposure relates to our fixed rate debt. the potential decrease in fair value of our fixed rate euro debt resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in interest rates would have been approximately $4.5 million at april 2, 2005. we employ a fair value hedging strategy utilizing interest rate swaps to effectively float a portion of our interest rate exposure on our fixed rate euro debt. on april 6, 2004 and october 4, 2004, the company executed interest rate swaps to convert the fixed interest rate on an additional total of euro 100 million of the eurobonds to a floating rate. after the execution of this swap, approximately 22 million of eurobonds remained at fixed interest rate.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for a discussion of the company exposure to market risk, see market risk management in md a presented elsewhere herein.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for a discussion of the company exposure to market risk, see market risk management in item 7 included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for a discussion of the company exposure to market risk, see market risk management in item 7 included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors there are risks associated with an investment in our securities. the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, our prospects, our operating results, our financial condition, the trading prices of our securities and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also affect our business operations. risks related to our business the loss of the services of mr. ralph lauren or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. mr. ralph lauren leadership in the design, marketing and operational areas of our business has been a critical element of our success since the inception of our company. the death or disability of mr. lauren or other extended or permanent loss of his services, or any negative market or industry perception with respect to him or arising from his loss, could have a material adverse effect on our business. our other executive officers and other members of senior management have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our growth and success. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could also adversely affect us. we are not protected by a material amount of key-man or similar life insurance covering mr. lauren, our other executive officers and certain other members of senior management. we have entered into employment agreements with mr. lauren and our other executive officers, but the noncompete period with respect to mr. lauren and certain other executive officers could, in some circumstances in the event of their termination of employment with the company, end prior to the employment term set forth in their employment agreements. our business could be negatively impacted by any financial instability of our customers. we sell our wholesale merchandise primarily to major department stores across the u.s. and europe and extend credit based on an evaluation of each customer financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. however, the financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail or eliminate business with that customer. we may also assume more credit risk relating to that customer receivables. in the aggregate, our seven largest department-store customers constituted approximately 40% of our gross trade accounts receivable outstanding as of march 28, 2009 and contributed approximately 50% of all wholesale revenues for fiscal 2009. our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. see item 1 business wholesale credit control. the current economic crisis could have a negative impact on our major customers and suppliers which in turn could materially adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. the current economic crisis is having a significant negative impact on businesses around the world. although we believe that our cash provided by operations and available borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility will provide us with sufficient liquidity through the current economic crisis, the impact of this crisis on our major customers and suppliers cannot be predicted and may be quite severe. the inability of major manufacturers to ship our products could impair our ability to meet the delivery date requirements of our customers. a disruption in the ability of our significant customers to access liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their businesses which could lead to a significant reduction in their future orders of our products and the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. we cannot assure the successful implementation of our growth strategy. as part of our growth strategy, we seek to extend our brands, expand our geographic coverage and increase direct management of our brands by opening more of our own stores, strategically acquiring or integrating select licenses previously held by our licensees and enhancing our operations. implementation of our strategy involves the 21 table of contents continued expansion of our business in europe, asia and other international areas. as discussed in item 1 business recent developments, on august 1, 2008, we acquired our previously licensed childrenswear and golf apparel businesses in japan. in fiscal 2008, we acquired a controlling interest in impact 21 co., ltd. ( impact 21 ) and the remaining 50% interest in polo ralph lauren japan corporation ( prl japan ). we also acquired our previously licensed belts and leather goods business in april 2007 and the remaining 50% interest in ralph lauren media, llc ( rl media ) in march 2007. also, as discussed in item 1 business recent developments, in february 2009, we entered into an agreement with dickson to assume direct control of our polo-branded licensed apparel businesses in southeast asia effective january 1, 2010. we may have difficulty integrating acquired businesses into our operations, hiring and retaining qualified key employees, or otherwise successfully managing such expansion. furthermore, we may not be able to successfully integrate the business of any licensee that we acquire into our own business or achieve any expected cost savings or synergies from such integration. in fiscal 2008, we launched american living , a new lifestyle brand created exclusively in the u.s. for jcpenney. the success of american living and the introduction of new product categories in both the u.s. and overseas may be negatively impacted in fiscal 2010 by the contraction in consumer spending associated with the current weakened global economic environment. see item 7 overview global economic developments for further discussion. implementation of our growth strategy involves the continuation and expansion of our retail distribution network, both in the u.s. and abroad, which are subject to many factors beyond our control. we may not be able to procure, purchase or lease desirable free- standing or department store locations, or renew and maintain existing free-standing store leases and department store locations on acceptable terms, or secure suitable replacement locations. the lease negotiation as well as the number and timing of new stores actually opened during any given period, and their associated contribution to net income for the period, depends on a number of factors including, but not limited, to: (i) the availability of suitable financing to us and our landlords; (ii) the timing of the delivery of the leased premises to us from our landlords in order to commence build-out construction activities; (iii) our ability and our landlords ability to obtain all necessary governmental licenses and permits to construct and operate our stores on a timely basis; (iv) our ability to manage the construction and development costs of new stores; (v) the rectification of any unforeseen engineering or environmental problems with the leased premises; (vi) adverse weather during the construction period; and (vii) the hiring and training of qualified operating personnel in the local market. while we continue to explore new markets and are always evaluating new potential locations, any of the above factors could have an adverse impact on our financial operations. in europe, we lack the large wholesale distribution channels we have in the u.s., and we may have difficulty developing successful distribution strategies and alliances in each of the major european countries. in japan, our primary mode of distribution is via a network of shops located within the leading department stores. we may have difficulty in successfully retaining this network, and expanding into alternate distribution channels. additionally, macroeconomic trends may not be favorable, and could limit our ability to implement our growth strategies in select geographies where we have foreign operations, such as europe and asia. our business could suffer as a result of consolidations, liquidations, restructurings and other ownership changes in the retail industry. several of our department store customers, including some under common ownership, account for significant portions of our wholesale net sales. we believe that a substantial portion of sales of our licensed products by our domestic licensing partners, including sales made by our sales force of ralph lauren home products, are also made to our largest department store customers. in the aggregate, our seven largest department-store customers accounted for approximately 50% of our wholesale net sales during fiscal 2009. there can be no assurance that consolidations, restructurings, reorganizations or other ownership changes in the department store sector will not have a material adverse effect on our wholesale business. 22 table of contents we typically do not enter into long-term agreements with our customers. instead, we enter into a number of purchase order commitments with our customers for each of our lines every season. a decision by the controlling owner of a group of stores or any other significant customer, whether motivated by competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease or eliminate the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing partners; or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing partners or their new strategic and operational initiatives, including their continued focus on further development of their private label initiatives, could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. our profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. the apparel industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer spending patterns. these factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, which could cause our gross margin to decline if we are unable to appropriately manage inventory levels and/or otherwise offset price reductions with comparable reductions in our operating costs. if our sales prices decline and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, our profitability will decline. this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. certain legal proceedings and regulatory matters could adversely impact our results of operations. we are involved in certain legal proceedings and are subject from time to time to various claims involving alleged breach of contract claims, credit card fraud, security breaches in certain of our retail store information systems, employment issues, consumer matters and other litigations. certain of these lawsuits and claims, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, could result in material liability to the company or have a negative impact on the company reputation or relations with its employees, customers, licensees or other third parties. in addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, such proceedings could result in substantial costs and may require that the company devotes substantial time and resources to defend itself. further, changes in governmental regulations both in the u.s. and in other countries where we conduct business operations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. see item 3 legal proceedings for further discussion of the company legal matters. our business could suffer if our computer systems and websites are disrupted or cease to operate effectively. the company relies heavily on its computer systems to record and process transactions and manage and operate our business. we also utilize an automated replenishment system to facilitate the processing of basic replenishment orders from our wholesale customers, the movement of goods through distribution channels, and the collection of information for planning and forecasting. in addition, we have e-commerce and other internet websites in the u.s. given the complexity of our business and the significant number of transactions that we engage in on an annual basis, it is imperative that we maintain constant operation of our computer hardware and software systems. despite our preventative efforts, our systems are vulnerable from time to time to damage or interruption from, among other things, security breaches, computer viruses or power outages. our business is subject to risks associated with importing products. as of march 28, 2009, we source a significant portion of our products outside the u.s. through arrangements with over 350 foreign vendors in various countries. in fiscal 2009, over 98%, by dollar value, of our products were produced outside the u.s., primarily in asia, europe and south america. risks inherent in importing our products include: quotas imposed by bilateral textile agreements with china and non-wto countries. these agreements limit the amount and type of goods that may be imported annually from these countries; changes in social, political and economic conditions or terrorist acts that could result in the disruption of trade from the countries in which our manufacturers or suppliers are located; the imposition of additional regulations relating to imports or exports; the imposition of additional duties, taxes and other charges on imports or exports; 23 table of contents significant fluctuations of the cost of raw materials; significant delays in the delivery of cargo due to security considerations; the imposition of antidumping or countervailing duty proceedings resulting in the potential assessment of special antidumping or countervailing duties; and the imposition of sanctions in the form of additional duties either by the u.s. or its trading partners to remedy perceived illegal actions by national governments. any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets is subject to risks associated with international operations. these include: the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and new tariffs or other barriers in some international markets. we are also subject to general political and economic risks in connection with our international operations, including: political instability and terrorist attacks; changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets. we cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, or other similar restrictions will be imposed by the u.s., the european union, asia, or other countries upon the import or export of our products in the future, or what effect any of these actions would have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in regulatory, geopolitical, social or economic policies and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our business in the future or may require us to significantly modify our current business practices. our trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected outside the u.s. we believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are extremely important to our success and our competitive position. we devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and anti-counterfeiting activities worldwide. significant counterfeiting of our products continues, however, and in the course of our international expansion we have experienced conflicts with various third parties that have acquired or claimed ownership rights in some trademarks that include polo and/or a representation of a polo player astride a horse, or otherwise have contested our rights to our trademarks. we have in the past resolved certain of these conflicts through both legal action and negotiated settlements, none of which, we believe, has had a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. we cannot guarantee that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent counterfeiting or a material adverse effect on our business or brands arising from imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and proprietary rights of others. also, there can be no assurance that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of ours or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction or at all. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the u.s. see item 1 business trademarks, and item 3 legal proceedings. 24 table of contents our business could suffer as a result of a manufacturer inability to produce our goods on time and to our specifications. we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and depend exclusively on independent third parties for the manufacture of all of our products. our products are manufactured to our specifications primarily by international manufacturers. during fiscal 2009, less than 2%, by dollar value, of our men and women products were manufactured in the u.s. and over 98%, by dollar value, of these products were manufactured in other countries. the inability of a manufacturer to ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items, which could result in cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a substantial reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our business could suffer if one of our manufacturers fails to use acceptable labor practices. we require our licensing partners and independent manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. while our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices and our staff periodically visits and monitors the operations of our independent manufacturers, we do not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. the violation of labor or other laws by an independent manufacturer used by us or one of our licensing partners, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer or licensing partner labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical or appropriate in the u.s., could interrupt, or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. any of these, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our business could suffer if we need to replace manufacturers. we compete with other companies for the production capacity of our manufacturers and import quota capacity. some of these competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have, and thus may have an advantage in the competition for production and import quota capacity. if we experience a significant increase in demand, or if an existing manufacturer of ours must be replaced, we may have to expand our third-party manufacturing capacity. we cannot guarantee that this additional capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us. see item 1 business sourcing, production and quality. we enter into a number of purchase order commitments each season specifying a time for delivery, method of payment, design and quality specifications and other standard industry provisions, but do not have long-term contracts with any manufacturer. none of the manufacturers we use produce our products exclusively. our business is exposed to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations. we generally purchase our products in u.s. dollars. however, we source most of our products overseas. as a result, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the u.s. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated prices at which our international businesses sell products. furthermore, our international sales and licensing revenue generally is derived from sales in foreign currencies. these foreign currencies include the japanese yen, the euro and the british pound sterling, and this revenue could be materially affected by currency fluctuations. although we hedge certain exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates arising in the ordinary course of business, we cannot assure that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. see item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk management. we rely on our licensing partners to preserve the value of our licenses. the risks associated with our own products also apply to our licensed products in addition to any number of possible risks specific to a licensing partner business, including, for example, risks associated with a particular licensing partner ability to: obtain capital; 25 table of contents manage its labor relations; maintain relationships with its suppliers; manage its credit and bankruptcy risks effectively; and maintain relationships with its customers. although a number of our license agreements prohibit licensing partners from entering into licensing arrangements with our competitors, our licensing partners generally are not precluded from offering, under other brands, the types of products covered by their license agreements with us. a substantial portion of sales of our products by our domestic licensing partners are also made to our largest customers. while we have significant control over our licensing partners products and advertising, we rely on our licensing partners for, among other things, operational and financial control over their businesses. changes in management, reduced sales of licensed products, poor execution or financial difficulties with respect to any of our licensing partners could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. see item 1 business our licensing segment. failure to maintain licensing partners could harm our business. although we believe in most circumstances we could replace existing licensing partners if necessary, our inability to do so for any period of time could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. see item 1 our licensing segment. the voting shares of the company stock are concentrated in one majority stockholder. as of march 28, 2009, mr. ralph lauren, or entities controlled by mr. ralph lauren, owned approximately 86% of the voting power of the outstanding common stock of the company. as a result, mr. lauren has the ability to exercise significant control over our business, including, without limitation, (i) the election of the company class b common stock directors, voting separately as a class, and (ii) any action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation and the approval of mergers or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. the trading prices of our securities periodically may rise or fall based on the accuracy of predictions of our earnings or other financial performance. our business planning process is designed to maximize our long-term strength, growth and profitability, not to achieve an earnings target in any particular fiscal quarter. we believe that this longer-term focus is in the best interests of the company and our stockholders. at the same time, however, we recognize that from time to time it may be helpful to provide investors with guidance as to our quarterly and annual forecast of net sales and earnings. while we generally expect to provide updates to our guidance when we report our results each fiscal quarter, we assume no responsibility to update any of our forward-looking statements at such times or otherwise. if and when we announce actual results that differ from those that have been predicted by us, outside analysts or others, the market price of our securities could be affected. investors who rely on the predictions when making investment decisions with respect to our securities do so at their own risk. we take no responsibility for any losses suffered as a result of such changes in the prices of our securities. risks relating to the industry in which we compete the downturn in the global economy may continue to affect consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, which could adversely affect our sales. the industries in which we operate are cyclical. many economic factors outside of our control affect the level of consumer spending in the apparel, cosmetic, fragrance, accessories and home products industries, including, among others: general business conditions; 26 table of contents economic downturns; employment levels; downturns in the stock market; interest rates; the housing market; consumer debt levels; the availability of consumer credit; increases in fuel prices; taxation; and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, including our products, may continue to decline during recessionary periods and at other times when disposable income is lower. a continuing downturn or an uncertain outlook in the economies in which we, or our licensing partners, sell our products may materially adversely affect our businesses and our revenues and profits. see item 7 overview our objectives and risks for further discussion. the domestic and international political situation also affects consumer confidence. the threat, outbreak or escalation of terrorism, military conflicts or other hostilities could lead to a decrease in consumer spending. we face intense competition in the worldwide apparel industry. we face a variety of intense competitive challenges from other domestic and foreign fashion-oriented apparel and casual apparel producers, some of which may be significantly larger and more diversified and have greater financial and marketing resources than we have. we compete with these companies primarily on the basis of: anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; maintaining favorable brand recognition; developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors and styles that appeal to consumers; appropriately pricing products; failure to anticipate and maintain proper inventory levels; providing strong and effective marketing support; creating an acceptable value proposition for retail customers; ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain efficiencies with manufacturers and retailers; and obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at retail stores. we also face increasing competition from companies selling apparel and home products through the internet. although rl media sells our products domestically through the internet, increased competition in the worldwide apparel, accessories and home product industries from internet-based competitors could reduce our sales, prices and margins and adversely affect our results of operations. the success of our business depends on our ability to respond to constantly changing fashion trends and consumer demands. our success depends in large part on our ability to originate and define fashion product and home product trends, as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers worldwide whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are 27 table of contents subject to rapid change. we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to develop appealing styles or successfully meet constantly changing consumer demands in the future. in addition, we cannot assure you that any new products or brands that we introduce will be successfully received by consumers. any failure on our part to anticipate, identify and respond effectively to changing consumer demands and fashion trends could adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of our products and leave us with a substantial amount of unsold inventory or missed opportunities. if that occurs, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess, slow-moving inventory, which may harm our business and impair the image of our brands. conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if manufacturers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages, which may result in unfilled orders, negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty and result in lost revenues. see item 1 business sourcing, production and quality. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for a discussion of the company exposure to market risk, see market risk management in item 7 included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors. there are risks associated with an investment in our securities. the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, our prospects, our operating results, our financial condition, the trading prices of our securities and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also affect our business operations. risks related to our business the loss of the services of mr. ralph lauren or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. mr. ralph lauren leadership in the design, marketing and operational areas of our business has been a critical element of our success since the inception of our company. the death or disability of mr. lauren or other extended or permanent loss of his services, or any negative market or industry perception with respect to him or arising from his loss, could have a material adverse effect on our business. our other executive officers and other members of senior management have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our growth and success. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could also have a material adverse effect on us. we are not protected by a material amount of key-man or similar life insurance covering mr. lauren, our other executive officers and certain other members of senior management. we have entered into employment agreements with mr. lauren and our other executive officers, but the noncompete period with respect to mr. lauren and certain other executive officers could, in some circumstances in the event of their termination of employment with the company, end prior to the employment term set forth in their employment agreements. our business could be negatively impacted by any financial instability of our customers. we sell our wholesale merchandise primarily to major department stores across the u.s., europe and asia and extend credit based on an evaluation of each customer financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. 21 table of contents however, the financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail or eliminate business with that customer. we may also assume more credit risk relating to that customer receivables. in the aggregate, our five largest department-store customers constituted approximately 30% of our gross trade accounts receivable outstanding as of april 3, 2010 and contributed approximately 45% of all wholesale revenues for fiscal 2010. our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or liquidity. see item 1 business wholesale credit control. the economic recession could have a negative impact on our major customers and suppliers which in turn could materially adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. the economic recession is having a significant negative impact on businesses around the world. although we believe that our cash provided by operations and available borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility will provide us with sufficient liquidity through the current recession, the impact of this recession on our major customers and suppliers cannot be predicted and may be quite severe. the inability of major manufacturers to ship our products could impair our ability to meet the delivery date requirements of our customers. a disruption in the ability of our significant customers to access liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their businesses which could lead to a significant reduction in their future orders of our products and the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. the company has an exclusive relationship with certain customers for some of its products. the loss or significant decline in business of any of these customers could negatively impact our business. the company has exclusive relationships with certain customers for distribution of some of its products, including its american living and chaps products. our arrangements with jcpenney and kohl for the american living and chaps products, respectively, make us dependent on the financial and operational health of those companies. as a result, a decrease in sales volume, as experienced in fiscal 2010 due to a contraction in consumer spending associated with the weakened global economic environment, or the loss of the business of these customers, may negatively impact the company business. we cannot assure the successful implementation of our growth strategy. as part of our growth strategy, we seek to extend our brands, expand our geographic coverage and increase direct management of our brands by opening more of our own stores, strategically acquiring or integrating select businesses previously held by our licensees and enhancing our operations. implementation of our strategy involves the continued expansion of our business in europe, asia and other international areas. as discussed in item 1 business recent developments, on december 31, 2009, we acquired our previously licensed polo-branded apparel business in the asia-pacific region (excluding japan). in fiscal 2009, we acquired our previously licensed childrenswear and golf apparel businesses in japan. in fiscal 2008, we acquired a controlling interest in impact 21 co., ltd. and the remaining 50% interest in polo ralph lauren japan corporation, as well as our previously licensed belts and leather goods business. we may have difficulty integrating acquired businesses into our operations, hiring and retaining qualified key employees, or otherwise successfully managing such expansion. furthermore, we may not be able to successfully integrate the business of any licensee that we acquire into our own business or achieve any expected cost savings or synergies from such integration. implementation of our growth strategy involves the continuation and expansion of our retail distribution network, both in the u.s. and abroad, which are subject to many factors beyond our control. we may not be able to procure, purchase or lease desirable free-standing or department store locations, or renew and maintain existing free-standing store leases and department store locations on acceptable terms, or secure suitable replacement locations. the lease negotiation as well as the number and timing of new stores actually opened during any given period, and their associated contribution to net income for the period, depends on a number of factors including, but not limited, to: (i) the availability of suitable financing to us and our landlords; (ii) the timing of the delivery of the leased premises to us from our landlords in order to commence build-out construction activities; (iii) our ability and 22 table of contents our landlords ability to obtain all necessary governmental licenses and permits to construct and operate our stores on a timely basis; (iv) our ability to manage the construction and development costs of new stores; (v) the rectification of any unforeseen engineering or environmental problems with the leased premises; (vi) adverse weather during the construction period; and (vii) the hiring and training of qualified operating personnel in the local market. while we continue to explore new markets and are always evaluating new potential locations, any of the above factors could have an adverse impact on our financial operations. in europe, we lack the large wholesale distribution channels we have in the u.s., and we may have difficulty developing successful distribution strategies and alliances in each of the major european countries. in asia (including japan), our primary mode of distribution is via a network of shops located within leading department stores. we may have difficulty in successfully retaining this network, and expanding into alternate distribution channels. additionally, macroeconomic trends may not be favorable, and could limit our ability to implement our growth strategies in select geographies where we have foreign operations, such as europe and asia. our business could suffer as a result of consolidations, liquidations, restructurings and other ownership changes in the retail industry. several of our department store customers, including some under common ownership, account for significant portions of our wholesale net sales. a substantial portion of sales of our licensed products by our domestic licensing partners, including sales made by our sales force of ralph lauren home products, are also made to our largest department store customers. in the aggregate, our five largest department-store customers accounted for approximately 45% of our wholesale net sales during fiscal 2010. there can be no assurance that consolidations, restructurings, reorganizations or other ownership changes in the department store sector will not have a material adverse effect on our wholesale business. we typically do not enter into long-term agreements with our customers. instead, we enter into a number of purchase order commitments with our customers for each of our lines every season. a decision by the controlling owner of a group of stores or any other significant customer, whether motivated by competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease or eliminate the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing partners; or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing partners or their new strategic and operational initiatives, including their continued focus on further development of their private label initiatives, could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. our profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. the apparel industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer spending patterns. these factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, which could cause our gross margin to decline if we are unable to appropriately manage inventory levels and/or otherwise offset price reductions with comparable reductions in our operating costs. if our sales prices decline and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, our profitability will decline. this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. certain legal proceedings and regulatory matters could adversely impact our results of operations. we are involved in certain legal proceedings and are subject from time to time to various claims involving alleged breach of contract claims, intellectual property and other related claims, credit card fraud, security breaches in certain of our retail store information systems, employment issues, consumer matters and other litigations. certain of these lawsuits and claims, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, could result in material liability to the company or have a negative impact on the company reputation or relations with its employees, customers, licensees or other third parties. in addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, such proceedings could result in substantial costs and may require that the company devotes substantial time and resources to defend itself. further, changes in governmental regulations both in the u.s. and in other countries where we conduct business operations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. see item 3 legal proceedings for further discussion of the company legal matters. 23 table of contents our business could suffer if our computer systems and websites are disrupted or cease to operate effectively. the company relies heavily on its computer systems to record and process transactions and manage and operate our business. we also utilize an automated replenishment system to facilitate the processing of basic replenishment orders from our wholesale customers, the movement of goods through distribution channels, and the collection of information for planning and forecasting. in addition, we have e-commerce and other internet websites in the u.s. given the complexity of our business and the significant number of transactions that we engage in on an annual basis, it is imperative that we maintain constant operation of our computer hardware and software systems. despite our preventative efforts, our systems are vulnerable from time to time to damage or interruption from, among other things, security breaches, computer viruses or power outages. a privacy breach could damage the company reputation and its relationships with its customers, expose the company to litigation risk and adversely affect the company business. as part of the company normal course of business, the company collects, processes and retains sensitive and confidential customer information. despite the security measures the company has in place, the company facilities and systems, and those of the company third party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other similar events. any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, whether by the company or its vendors, could severely damage the company reputation and its relationships with its customers, expose the company to risks of litigation and liability and adversely affect the company business. our business is subject to risks associated with importing products. as of april 3, 2010, we source a significant portion of our products outside the u.s. through arrangements with over 400 foreign vendors in various countries. in fiscal 2010, over 98%, by dollar value, of our products were produced outside the u.s., primarily in asia, europe and south america. risks inherent in importing our products include: quotas imposed by bilateral textile agreements with china and non-wto countries. these agreements limit the amount and type of goods that may be imported annually from these countries; changes in social, political and economic conditions or terrorist acts that could result in the disruption of trade from the countries in which our manufacturers or suppliers are located; the imposition of additional regulations relating to imports or exports; the imposition of additional duties, taxes and other charges on imports or exports; significant fluctuations of the cost of raw materials; significant delays in the delivery of cargo due to security considerations; the imposition of antidumping or countervailing duty proceedings resulting in the potential assessment of special antidumping or countervailing duties; and the imposition of sanctions in the form of additional duties either by the u.s. or its trading partners to remedy perceived illegal actions by national governments. any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 24 table of contents our ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets is subject to risks associated with international operations. these include: the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and new tariffs or other barriers in some international markets. we are also subject to general political and economic risks in connection with our international operations, including: political instability and terrorist attacks; changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets. we cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, or other similar restrictions will be imposed by the u.s., the european union, asia, or other countries upon the import or export of our products in the future, or what effect any of these actions would have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in regulatory, geopolitical, social or economic policies and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our business in the future or may require us to significantly modify our current business practices. our trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected outside the u.s. we believe that our trademarks, intellectual property and other proprietary rights are extremely important to our success and our competitive position. we devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and anti-counterfeiting activities worldwide. significant counterfeiting of our products continues, however, and in the course of our international expansion we have experienced conflicts with various third parties that have acquired or claimed ownership rights in some trademarks that include polo and/or a representation of a polo player astride a horse, or otherwise have contested our rights to our trademarks. we have in the past resolved certain of these conflicts through both legal action and negotiated settlements, none of which, we believe, has had a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. we cannot guarantee that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent counterfeiting or a material adverse effect on our business or brands arising from imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and proprietary rights of others. also, there can be no assurance that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of ours or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction or at all. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect trademarks or other proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the u.s. see item 1 business trademarks, and item 3 legal proceedings. our business could suffer as a result of increases in the price of raw materials or a manufacturer inability to produce our goods on time and to our specifications. we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and depend exclusively on independent third parties for the manufacture of all of our products. our products are manufactured to our specifications primarily by international manufacturers. during fiscal 2010, less than 2%, by dollar value, of our men and women products were manufactured in the u.s. and over 98%, by dollar value, of these products were manufactured in other countries. the inability of a manufacturer to ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items, which could result in cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a substantial reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, prices 25 table of contents of raw materials used to manufacture our products may fluctuate and increases in prices of such raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales. our business could suffer if one of our manufacturers fails to use acceptable labor practices. we require our licensing partners and independent manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. while our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices and our staff periodically visits and monitors the operations of our independent manufacturers, we do not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. the violation of labor or other laws by an independent manufacturer used by us or one of our licensing partners, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer or licensing partner labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical or appropriate in the u.s., could interrupt, or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. any of these, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our business could suffer if we need to replace manufacturers. we compete with other companies for the production capacity of our manufacturers and import quota capacity. some of these competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have, and thus may have an advantage in the competition for production and import quota capacity. if we experience a significant increase in demand, or if an existing manufacturer of ours must be replaced, we may have to expand our third-party manufacturing capacity. we cannot guarantee that this additional capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us. see item 1 business sourcing, production and quality. we enter into a number of purchase order commitments each season specifying a time for delivery, method of payment, design and quality specifications and other standard industry provisions, but do not have long-term contracts with any manufacturer. none of the manufacturers we use produce our products exclusively. our business is exposed to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations. we generally purchase our products in u.s. dollars. however, we source most of our products overseas. as a result, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the u.s. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated prices at which our international businesses sell products. furthermore, our international sales and licensing revenue generally is derived from sales in foreign currencies. these foreign currencies include the japanese yen, the euro and the british pound sterling, and this revenue could be materially affected by currency fluctuations. although we hedge certain exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates arising in the ordinary course of business, we cannot assure that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. see item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk management. we rely on our licensing partners to preserve the value of our licenses. the risks associated with our own products also apply to our licensed products in addition to any number of possible risks specific to a licensing partner business, including, for example, risks associated with a particular licensing partner ability to: obtain capital; manage its labor relations; maintain relationships with its suppliers; manage its credit and bankruptcy risks effectively; and maintain relationships with its customers. although a number of our license agreements prohibit licensing partners from entering into licensing arrangements with our competitors, our licensing partners generally are not precluded from offering, under other brands, the types of products covered by their license agreements with us. a substantial portion of sales of our 26 table of contents products by our domestic licensing partners are also made to our largest customers. while we have significant control over our licensing partners products and advertising, we rely on our licensing partners for, among other things, operational and financial control over their businesses. changes in management, reduced sales of licensed products, poor execution or financial difficulties with respect to any of our licensing partners could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. see item 1 business our licensing segment. failure to maintain licensing partners could harm our business. although we believe in most circumstances we could replace existing licensing partners if necessary, our inability to do so for any period of time could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. see item 1 our licensing segment. the voting shares of the company stock are concentrated in one majority stockholder. as of april 3, 2010, mr. ralph lauren, or entities controlled by the lauren family, owned approximately 84% of the voting power of the outstanding common stock of the company. as a result, mr. lauren has the ability to exercise significant control over our business, including, without limitation, (i) the election of the company class b common stock directors, voting separately as a class, and (ii) any action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation and the approval of mergers or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. the trading prices of our securities periodically may rise or fall based on the accuracy of predictions of our earnings or other financial performance. our business planning process is designed to maximize our long-term strength, growth and profitability, not to achieve an earnings target in any particular fiscal quarter. we believe that this longer-term focus is in the best interests of the company and our stockholders. at the same time, however, we recognize that from time to time it may be helpful to provide investors with guidance as to our quarterly and annual forecast of net sales and earnings. while we generally expect to provide updates to our guidance when we report our results each fiscal quarter, we assume no responsibility to update any of our forward-looking statements at such times or otherwise. if and when we announce actual results that differ from those that have been predicted by us, outside analysts or others, the market price of our securities could be affected. investors who rely on the predictions when making investment decisions with respect to our securities do so at their own risk. we take no responsibility for any losses suffered as a result of such changes in the prices of our securities. risks relating to the industry in which we compete the downturn in the global economy may continue to affect consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, which could adversely affect our sales. the industries in which we operate are cyclical. many economic factors outside of our control affect the level of consumer spending in the apparel, cosmetic, fragrance, accessories and home products industries, including, among others: general business conditions; economic downturns; employment levels; downturns in the stock market; interest rates; the housing market; consumer debt levels; 27 table of contents the availability of consumer credit; increases in fuel prices; taxation; and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, including our products, may continue to decline during recessionary periods and at other times when disposable income is lower. a continuing downturn or an uncertain outlook in the economies in which we, or our licensing partners, sell our products may materially adversely affect our businesses and our revenues and profits. see item 7 overview our objectives and risks for further discussion. the domestic and international political situation also affects consumer confidence. the threat, outbreak or escalation of terrorism, military conflicts or other hostilities could lead to a decrease in consumer spending and may materially adversely affect our business, revenues and profits. we face intense competition in the worldwide apparel industry. we face a variety of intense competitive challenges from other domestic and foreign fashion-oriented apparel and casual apparel producers, some of which may be significantly larger and more diversified and have greater financial and marketing resources than we have. we compete with these companies primarily on the basis of: anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; maintaining favorable brand recognition, loyalty and reputation for quality; developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors and styles that appeal to consumers; appropriately pricing products; failure to anticipate and maintain proper inventory levels; providing strong and effective marketing support; creating an acceptable value proposition for retail customers; ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain efficiencies with manufacturers and retailers; and obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at retail stores. we also face increasing competition from companies selling apparel and home products through the internet. although we sell our products domestically through the internet, increased competition in the worldwide apparel, accessories and home product industries from internet-based competitors could reduce our sales, prices and margins and adversely affect our results of operations. the success of our business depends on our ability to respond to constantly changing fashion trends and consumer demands. our success depends in large part on our ability to originate and define fashion product and home product trends, as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers worldwide whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. we cannot assure that we will be able to continue to develop appealing styles or successfully meet constantly changing consumer demands in the future. in addition, we cannot assure that any new products or brands that we introduce will be successfully received by consumers. any failure on our part to anticipate, identify and respond effectively to changing consumer demands and fashion trends could adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of our products and leave us with a substantial amount of unsold inventory or missed opportunities. if that occurs, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess, slow-moving inventory, which may harm our business and impair the image of our brands. conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if manufacturers fail to supply quality products in a timely 28 table of contents manner, we may experience inventory shortages, which may result in unfilled orders, negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty and result in lost revenues. see item 1 business sourcing, production and quality. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. for a discussion of the company exposure to market risk, see market risk management in item 7 included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors. there are risks associated with an investment in our securities. the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, our prospects, our results of operations, our financial condition, our liquidity, the trading prices of our securities, and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also affect our business operations. risks related to our business the loss of the services of mr. ralph lauren or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. mr. ralph lauren leadership in the design, marketing and operational areas of our business has been a critical element of our success since the inception of our company. the death or disability of mr. lauren or other extended or permanent loss of his services, or any negative market or industry perception with respect to him or arising from his loss, could have a material adverse effect on our business. our other executive officers and other members of senior management have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our growth and success. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could also have a material adverse effect on us. we are not protected by a material amount of key-man or similar life insurance covering mr. lauren, our other executive officers and certain other members of senior management. we have entered into employment agreements with mr. lauren and our other executive officers, but the noncompete period with respect to mr. lauren and certain other executive officers could, in some circumstances in the event of their termination of employment with our company, end prior to the employment term set forth in their employment agreements. our business could be negatively impacted by any financial instability of our customers. we sell our wholesale merchandise primarily to major department stores across the u.s., europe and asia and extend credit based on an evaluation of each customer financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. however, the financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail or eliminate business with that customer. we may also assume more credit risk relating to that customer receivables. in the aggregate, our four largest wholesale customers constituted approximately 30% of our gross trade accounts receivable outstanding as of april 2, 2011 and contributed approximately 40% of all wholesale revenues for fiscal 2011. our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or liquidity. see item 1 business wholesale credit control. uncertain economic conditions could have a negative impact on our major customers and suppliers which in turn could materially adversely affect our operating results and liquidity. the uncertain state of the global economy is having a significant negative impact on businesses around the world. although we believe that our cash provided by operations and available borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility will provide us with sufficient liquidity through the current economic uncertainty, the impact of economic conditions on our major customers and suppliers cannot be predicted and may be quite severe. the inability of major manufacturers to ship our products could impair our ability to meet the delivery date requirements of our customers. a disruption in the ability of our significant customers to access liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their businesses which could lead to a significant reduction in their future orders of our products and the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and liquidity. we cannot assure the successful implementation of our growth strategy. as part of our growth strategy, we seek to extend our brands, expand our geographic coverage and increase direct management of our brands by opening more of our own stores, strategically acquiring or integrating select businesses previously held by our licensees and enhancing our operations. implementation of our strategy involves 23 table of contents the continued expansion of our business in europe, asia and other international areas. as discussed in item 1 business recent developments, on january 1, 2011, we acquired our previously licensed polo-branded apparel and accessories business in south korea. in fiscal 2010, we acquired our previously licensed polo-branded apparel business in the asia-pacific region (excluding japan and south korea). in fiscal 2009, we acquired our previously licensed childrenswear and golf apparel businesses in japan. we may have difficulty integrating acquired businesses into our operations, hiring and retaining qualified key employees, or otherwise successfully managing such expansion. furthermore, we may not be able to successfully integrate the business of any licensee that we acquire into our own business or achieve any expected cost savings or synergies from such integration. implementation of our growth strategy involves the continuation and expansion of our retail distribution network, both in the u.s. and abroad, which are subject to many factors beyond our control. we may not be able to procure, purchase or lease desirable free-standing or department store locations, or renew and maintain existing free-standing store leases and department store locations on acceptable terms, or secure suitable replacement locations. the lease negotiation as well as the number and timing of new stores actually opened during any given period, and their associated contribution to net income for the period, depends on a number of factors including, but not limited to: (i) the availability of suitable financing to us and our landlords; (ii) the timing of the delivery of the leased premises to us from our landlords in order to commence build-out construction activities; (iii) our ability and our landlords ability to obtain all necessary governmental licenses and permits to construct and operate our stores on a timely basis; (iv) our ability to manage the construction and development costs of new stores; (v) the rectification of any unforeseen engineering or environmental problems with the leased premises; (vi) adverse weather during the construction period; and (vii) the hiring and training of qualified operating personnel in the local market. while we continue to explore new markets and are always evaluating new potential locations, any of the above factors could have an adverse impact on our financial operations. in europe, we lack the large wholesale distribution channels we have in the u.s., and we may have difficulty developing successful distribution strategies and alliances in each of the major european countries. in asia (including japan), our primary mode of distribution is via a network of shops located within leading department stores. we may have difficulty in successfully retaining this network, and expanding into alternate distribution channels. additionally, macroeconomic trends may not be favorable, and could limit our ability to implement our growth strategies in select geographies where we have foreign operations, such as europe and asia. our business is subject to risks associated with importing products. as of april 2, 2011, we source a significant portion of our products outside the u.s. through arrangements with over 400 foreign vendors in various countries. in fiscal 2011, over 98%, by dollar value, of our products were produced outside the u.s., primarily in asia, europe and south america. risks inherent in importing our products include: changes in social, political and economic conditions or terrorist acts that could result in the disruption of trade from the countries in which our manufacturers or suppliers are located; the imposition of additional regulations relating to imports or exports; the imposition of additional duties, taxes and other charges on imports or exports; significant fluctuations of the cost of raw materials; increases in the cost of fuel, travel and transportation; disruptions of shipping and international trade caused by natural and man-made disasters; significant delays in the delivery of cargo due to security considerations; the imposition of antidumping or countervailing duty proceedings resulting in the potential assessment of special antidumping or countervailing duties; and the imposition of sanctions in the form of additional duties either by the u.s. or its trading partners to remedy perceived illegal actions by national governments. 24 table of contents any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. the apparel industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer spending patterns. these factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, which could cause our gross margin to decline if we are unable to appropriately manage inventory levels and/or otherwise offset price reductions with comparable reductions in our operating costs. if our sales prices decline and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, our profitability will decline. this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. our business could suffer as a result of increases in the price of raw materials, freight or labor or a manufacturer inability to produce our goods on time and to our specifications. we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and depend exclusively on independent third parties for the manufacture of all of our products. our products are manufactured to our specifications primarily by international manufacturers. during fiscal 2011, less than 2%, by dollar value, of our men and women products were manufactured in the u.s. and over 98%, by dollar value, of these products were manufactured in other countries. the inability of a manufacturer to ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items, which could result in cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a substantial reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, prices of raw materials used to manufacture our products may fluctuate and increases in prices of such raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales. furthermore, the cost of labor at many of our third-party manufacturers has been increasing significantly and, as the middle class in developing countries continues to grow, it is unlikely that such cost pressure will abate. the cost of transportation has been increasing as well and it is unlikely that such cost pressure will abate if oil prices continue to increase and there is continued significant unrest in the middle east. we may not be able to offset such increases in raw materials, freight or labor costs through pricing actions or other means. our business is exposed to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations. we generally purchase our products in u.s. dollars. however, we source most of our products overseas. as a result, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the u.s. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated prices at which our international businesses sell products. furthermore, our international sales and licensing revenue generally is derived from sales in foreign currencies. these foreign currencies primarily include the japanese yen, the south korean won, the euro and the british pound sterling, and this revenue could be materially affected by currency fluctuations. although we hedge certain exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates arising in the ordinary course of business, we cannot assure that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. see item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk management. fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may result in volatility of our operating results and stock price. we are subject to income taxes in many u.s. and certain foreign jurisdictions. we record tax expense based on our estimates of future payments, which include reserves for uncertain tax positions in multiple tax jurisdictions. at any one time, multiple tax years are subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. the results of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may affect the ultimate settlement of these issues. as a result, we expect that throughout the year there could be ongoing variability in our quarterly tax rates as events occur and exposures are evaluated. in addition, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be materially impacted by changes in the mix and level of earnings by jurisdiction or by changes to existing accounting rules or regulations. 25 table of contents our company has an exclusive relationship with certain customers for some of our products. the loss or significant decline in business of any of these customers could negatively impact our business. we have exclusive relationships with certain customers for distribution of some of our products, including our american living and chaps products. our arrangements with jcpenney and kohl for the american living and chaps products, respectively, make us dependent on the financial and operational health of those companies. additionally, the loss of either of these relationships could have an adverse effect on our wholesale business. our business could suffer as a result of consolidations, liquidations, restructurings and other ownership changes in the retail industry. several of our department store customers, including some under common ownership, account for significant portions of our wholesale net sales. a substantial portion of sales of our licensed products by our domestic licensing partners, including sales made by our sales force of ralph lauren home products, are also made to our largest department store customers. in the aggregate, our four largest wholesale customers accounted for approximately 40% of our wholesale net sales during fiscal 2011. there can be no assurance that consolidations, restructurings, reorganizations or other ownership changes in the department store sector will not have a material adverse effect on our wholesale business. we typically do not enter into long-term agreements with our customers. instead, we enter into a number of purchase order commitments with our customers for each of our lines every season. a decision by the controlling owner of a group of stores or any other significant customer, whether motivated by competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease or eliminate the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing partners; or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing partners or their new strategic and operational initiatives, including their continued focus on further development of their private label initiatives, could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. certain legal proceedings, regulatory matters and accounting changes could adversely impact our results of operations. we are involved in certain legal proceedings and are subject from time to time to various claims involving alleged breach of contract claims, intellectual property and other related claims, credit card fraud, security breaches in certain of our retail store information systems, employment issues, consumer matters and other litigations. certain of these lawsuits and claims, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, could result in material liability to our company or have a negative impact on our reputation or relations with our employees, customers, licensees or other third parties. in addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, such proceedings could result in substantial costs and may require that our company devotes substantial time and resources to defend itself. further, changes in governmental regulations both in the u.s., including potential changes in state laws regarding the escheatment of unredeemed gift cards, and in other countries where we conduct business operations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. see item 3 legal proceedings for further discussion of our company legal matters. in addition, we are subject to changes in accounting rules and interpretations. the financial accounting standards board is currently in the process of amending a number of existing accounting standards governing a variety of areas. certain of these proposed standards, particularly the proposed standard governing accounting for leases, if and when effective, would likely have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. see note 4 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements for further discussion of proposed amendments to current accounting standards. our business could suffer if our computer systems and websites are disrupted or cease to operate effectively. our company relies heavily on our computer systems to record and process transactions and manage and operate our business. we also utilize an automated replenishment system to facilitate the processing of basic replenishment orders from our retail segment and our wholesale customers, the movement of goods through distribution channels, and the collection of information for planning and forecasting. in addition, we have 26 table of contents e-commerce and other internet websites in the u.s. and u.k. given the complexity of our business and the significant number of transactions that we engage in on an annual basis, it is imperative that we maintain constant operation of our computer hardware and software systems. despite our preventative efforts, our systems are vulnerable from time to time to damage or interruption from, among other things, security breaches, computer viruses or power outages. we are continually improving and upgrading our computer systems and software. we are in the process of implementing a new global financial and reporting system as part of a multi-year plan to integrate and upgrade our operational and financial systems and processes. the implementation of this global system is scheduled to occur in phases over the next several years, and began with the migration of certain of our domestic human resource systems to the new global financial and reporting system during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. this implementation effort will continue in the first quarter of fiscal 2012, when certain of our domestic operational and financial systems will be transitioned to the new system. implementation of a new global financial and reporting system involves risks and uncertainties. any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design or implementation of the new system could result in increased costs and adversely affect our ability to timely report our financial results, which could negatively impact our business and results of operations. a privacy breach could damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers, expose us to litigation risk and adversely affect our business. as part of our normal course of business, we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential customer information. despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of our third party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other similar events. any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, whether by our company or our vendors, could severely damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers, expose us to risks of litigation and liability and adversely affect our business. our ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets is subject to risks associated with international operations. these include: the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and new tariffs or other barriers in some international markets. we are also subject to general political and economic risks in connection with our international operations, including: political instability and terrorist attacks; changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets. we cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, or other similar restrictions will be imposed by the u.s., the european union, asia, or other countries upon the import or export of our products in the future, or what effect any of these actions would have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in regulatory, geopolitical, social or economic policies and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our business in the future or may require us to significantly modify our current business practices. 27 table of contents our results of operations could be affected by natural events in the locations in which we or our customers or suppliers operate. we have operations, including retail, distribution and warehousing operations, in locations subject to natural disasters such as severe weather and geological events that could disrupt our operations. in addition, our suppliers and customers also have operations in these locations. such an event occurred in japan on march 11, 2011, where the northern region of japan experienced a severe earthquake followed by a series of tsunamis, resulting in damage to the region industrial infrastructure and environmental pollution. in addition to the negative direct effects to the japanese economy, the country position as a major exporter in the world may result in a regional or global downturn in economic activity. the degree to which the earthquake in japan will have an economic disruption on the regional and global economies remains uncertain at this time; however, the impact may result in a decrease in the demand for our products that could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. our trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected outside the u.s. we believe that our trademarks, intellectual property and other proprietary rights are extremely important to our success and our competitive position. we devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and anti-counterfeiting activities worldwide. significant counterfeiting of our products continues, however, and in the course of our international expansion we have experienced conflicts with various third parties that have acquired or claimed ownership rights in some trademarks that include polo and/or a representation of a polo player astride a horse, or otherwise have contested our rights to our trademarks. we have in the past resolved certain of these conflicts through both legal action and negotiated settlements, none of which, we believe, has had a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. we cannot guarantee that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent counterfeiting or a material adverse effect on our business or brands arising from imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and proprietary rights of others. also, there can be no assurance that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of ours or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction or at all. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect trademarks or other proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the u.s. see item 1 business trademarks, and item 3 legal proceedings. our business could suffer if one of our manufacturers fails to use acceptable labor practices. we require our licensing partners and independent manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. while our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices and our staff periodically visits and monitors the operations of our independent manufacturers, we do not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. the violation of labor or other laws by an independent manufacturer used by us or one of our licensing partners, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer or licensing partner labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical or appropriate in the u.s., could interrupt, or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. any of these, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our business could suffer if we need to replace manufacturers. we compete with other companies for the production capacity of our manufacturers. some of these competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have, and thus may have an advantage in the competition for production. if we experience a significant increase in demand, or if an existing manufacturer of ours must be replaced, we may have to expand our third-party manufacturing capacity. we cannot guarantee that this additional capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us. see item 1 business sourcing, production and quality. we enter into a number of purchase order commitments each season specifying a time for delivery, method of payment, design and quality specifications and other standard industry provisions, but do not have long-term contracts with any manufacturer. none of the manufacturers we use produce our products exclusively. 28 table of contents we rely on our licensing partners to preserve the value of our licenses. the risks associated with our own products also apply to our licensed products in addition to any number of possible risks specific to a licensing partner business, including, for example, risks associated with a particular licensing partner ability to: obtain capital; manage its labor relations; maintain relationships with its suppliers; manage its credit and bankruptcy risks effectively; and maintain relationships with its customers. although a number of our license agreements prohibit licensing partners from entering into licensing arrangements with our competitors, our licensing partners generally are not precluded from offering, under other brands, the types of products covered by their license agreements with us. a substantial portion of sales of our products by our domestic licensing partners are also made to our largest customers. while we have significant control over our licensing partners products and advertising, we rely on our licensing partners for, among other things, operational and financial control over their businesses. changes in management, reduced sales of licensed products, poor execution or financial difficulties with respect to any of our licensing partners could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. see item 1 business our licensing segment. failure to maintain licensing partners could harm our business. although we believe in most circumstances we could replace existing licensing partners if necessary, our inability to do so for any period of time could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. see item 1 business our licensing segment. the voting shares of our company stock are concentrated in one majority stockholder. as of april 2, 2011, mr. ralph lauren, or entities controlled by the lauren family, owned approximately 76% of the voting power of the outstanding common stock of our company. as a result, mr. lauren has the ability to exercise significant control over our business, including, without limitation, (i) the election of our class b common stock directors, voting separately as a class, and (ii) any action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation and the approval of mergers or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. the trading prices of our securities periodically may rise or fall based on the accuracy of predictions of our earnings or other financial performance. our business planning process is designed to maximize our long-term strength, growth and profitability, not to achieve an earnings target in any particular fiscal quarter. we believe that this longer-term focus is in the best interests of our company and our stockholders. at the same time, however, we recognize that from time to time it may be helpful to provide investors with guidance as to our quarterly and annual forecast of net sales and earnings. while we generally expect to provide updates to our guidance when we report our results each fiscal quarter, we assume no responsibility to update any of our forward-looking statements at such times or otherwise. if and when we announce actual results that differ from those that have been predicted by us, outside analysts or others, the market price of our securities could be affected. investors who rely on the predictions when making investment decisions with respect to our securities do so at their own risk. we take no responsibility for any losses suffered as a result of such changes in the prices of our securities. 29 table of contents risks relating to the industry in which we compete the downturn in the global economy may continue to affect consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, which could adversely affect our sales. the industries in which we operate are cyclical. many economic factors outside of our control affect the level of consumer spending in the apparel, cosmetic, fragrance, accessories and home products industries, including, among others: general business conditions; economic downturns; employment levels; downturns in the stock market; interest rates; the housing market; consumer debt levels; the availability of consumer credit; increases in fuel prices; taxation; and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, including our products, may continue to decline during recessionary periods and at other times when disposable income is lower. a downturn or an uncertain outlook in the economies in which we, or our licensing partners, sell our products may materially adversely affect our businesses and our revenues and profits. see item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations overview our objectives and risks for further discussion. the domestic and international political situation also affects consumer confidence. the threat, outbreak or escalation of terrorism, military conflicts or other hostilities could lead to a decrease in consumer spending and may materially adversely affect our business, revenues and profits. we face intense competition in the worldwide apparel industry. we face a variety of intense competitive challenges from other domestic and foreign fashion-oriented apparel and casual apparel producers, some of which may be significantly larger and more diversified and have greater financial and marketing resources than we have. we compete with these companies primarily on the basis of: anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; maintaining favorable brand recognition, loyalty and reputation for quality; developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors and styles that appeal to consumers; appropriately sourcing raw materials at cost-effective prices; appropriately pricing products; failure to anticipate and maintain proper inventory levels; providing strong and effective marketing support; creating an acceptable value proposition for retail customers; ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain efficiencies with manufacturers and retailers; and obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at retail stores. 30 table of contents we also face increasing competition from companies selling apparel and home products through the internet. although we sell our products through the internet, increased competition in the worldwide apparel, accessories and home product industries from internet-based competitors could reduce our sales, prices and margins and adversely affect our results of operations. the success of our business depends on our ability to respond to constantly changing fashion trends and consumer demands. our success depends in large part on our ability to originate and define fashion product and home product trends, as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers worldwide whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. we cannot assure that we will be able to continue to develop appealing styles or successfully meet constantly changing consumer demands in the future. in addition, we cannot assure that any new products or brands that we introduce will be successfully received by consumers. any failure on our part to anticipate, identify and respond effectively to changing consumer demands and fashion trends could adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of our products and leave us with a substantial amount of unsold inventory or missed opportunities. if that occurs, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess, slow-moving inventory, which may harm our business and impair the image of our brands. conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if manufacturers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages, which may result in unfilled orders, negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty and result in lost revenues. see item 1 business sourcing, production and quality. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. for a discussion of our exposure to market risk, see market risk management in item 7 included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors there are risks associated with an investment in our securities. the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risk factors could materially adversely affect our business, our prospects, our results of operations, our financial condition, our liquidity, the trading prices of our securities, and/or the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently view as immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations in future periods or if circumstances change. risks related to our business the loss of the services of mr. ralph lauren, members of our executive management, or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. mr. ralph lauren's leadership in the design, marketing, and operational areas of our business has been a critical element of our success since the inception of our company. mr. lauren is instrumental to, and closely identified with, our brand that bears his name. our ability to maintain our brand image and leverage the goodwill associated with mr. lauren's name may be damaged if we were to lose his services. we depend on the service and management experience of mr. lauren and other key executive officers, who have substantial experience and expertise in our industry and our business. the death or disability of mr. lauren or other extended or permanent loss of his services, or any negative market or industry perception with respect to him or arising from his loss, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our other executive officers and other members of senior management have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our growth and success. the loss of the services of mr. roger farah, our president and chief operating officer, or one or more of our other key personnel, or the concurrent loss of several of these individuals, could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we are not protected by a material amount of key-man or similar life insurance covering mr. lauren, our other executive officers, and certain other members of senior management. we have entered into employment agreements with mr. lauren and other executive officers, but competition for experienced executives in our industry is intense and the non-compete period with respect to mr. lauren and certain other executive officers could, in some circumstances in the event of their termination of employment with our company, end prior to the employment term set forth in their employment agreements. we cannot assure the successful implementation of our growth strategy. as part of our growth strategy, we seek to extend our brands and merchandise categories, expand our geographic coverage, and increase direct management of our brands by opening more of our own stores, strategically acquiring or integrating select businesses previously held by our licensees, and enhancing our operations. implementation of our strategy involves the continued expansion of our business in north america, asia, europe, latin america, and other international areas. for example, as discussed in item 1 business recent developments, in april 2013, we completed the chaps men's sportswear license acquisition, and we are in the process of repositioning and upgrading our existing distribution network in the asia-pacific region. we may have difficulty integrating acquired businesses into our operations, hiring and retaining qualified key employees, or otherwise successfully managing such expansion. furthermore, we may not be able to successfully integrate the business of any licensee that we acquire into our own business, incur additional costs, and/or fail to achieve any expected cost savings or synergies from such integration. implementation of our growth strategy involves the continuation and expansion of our retail distribution network on a global basis, including our e-commerce operations, which is subject to many factors beyond our control. we may not be able to procure, purchase, or lease desirable freestanding or department store locations, renew, and maintain existing freestanding store leases and department store locations on acceptable terms, or secure suitable replacement locations. the lease negotiation, as well as the number and timing of new stores and shop-within-shop locations actually opened during any given period and their associated contribution to net income for the period, depends on a number of factors including, but not limited to: (i) the availability of suitable financing to us and our landlords; (ii) the timing of the delivery of the leased premises to us from our landlords in order to commence build-out construction activities; (iii) our ability and our landlords' ability to obtain all necessary governmental licenses and permits to construct and operate our stores on a timely basis; (iv) our ability to manage the construction and development costs of new stores; (v) the rectification of any unforeseen engineering or environmental problems with the leased premises; (vi) adverse weather conditions during the construction period; and (vii) the hiring and training of qualified operating personnel in the local market. while we continue to explore new markets and are always evaluating new potential locations, any of the above 23 factors could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. further, as we continue to expand and increase the global presence of our e-commerce business, sales from our brick and mortar stores and wholesale channels of distribution in areas where e-commerce sites are introduced may decline due to cannibalization. in europe, we lack the large wholesale distribution channels we have in the u.s., and we may have difficulty developing and maintaining successful distribution strategies and alliances in certain of the major european countries. in asia, our primary mode of distribution is via a network of shops located within leading department stores. as we have limited experience operating a direct-to-consumer business in this region and face established competitors, we may have difficulty in successfully retaining this network and expanding into alternate distribution channels. in addition, certain of the international countries in which we operate, particularly in asia, have unique operational characteristics that vary from the u.s., including but not limited to employment and labor, transportation, logistics, acquiring store locations, and legal requirements, which may pose challenges to the execution and success of our related growth strategies. further, macroeconomic trends may not be favorable and could limit our ability to implement our growth strategies in select geographies where we have foreign operations, such as europe, asia, and latin america. achievement of our growth strategy requires investment in new capabilities, distribution channels, and technologies worldwide. these investments may result in short-term costs without accompanying current revenues and, therefore, may be dilutive to our earnings in the short term. in addition, we may continue to incur costs in connection with repositioning our business in certain geographic areas, including in the asia-pacific region. although we believe that our strategy will lead to long-term growth in revenue and profitability, the anticipated benefits may not be fully realized. our ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political, and economic risks. our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to maintain our current level of operations in our existing international markets is subject to certain risks associated with operating in various international locations. these include: the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, including trade and labor restrictions; compliance with u.s. and other country laws relating to foreign operations, including the foreign corrupt practices act, which prohibits u.s. companies from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and the u.k. bribery act, which prohibits u.k. and related companies from any form of bribery; unexpected changes in laws, judicial process, or regulatory requirements; and new tariffs or other barriers in certain international markets. we are also subject to general political and economic risks in connection with our international operations, including: political instability and terrorist attacks; changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets. we cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, or other similar restrictions will be imposed by the u.s., the european union, asia, or other countries upon the import or export of our products in the future, or what effect any of these actions would have, if any, on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. changes in regulatory, geopolitical, social, or economic policies and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our business in the future, or may require us to exit a particular market or significantly modify our current business practices. a data security or privacy breach could damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers, expose us to litigation risk, and adversely affect our business. we are dependent on information technology systems and networks, including the internet, for a significant portion of our direct-to-consumer sales, including our e-commerce operations and retail business credit card transaction authorization and processing. we are also responsible for storing data relating to our customers and employees and rely on third parties for the operation of our e-commerce websites and for the various social media tools and websites we use as part of our marketing strategy. in our normal course of business, we often collect, retain, and transmit certain sensitive and confidential customer information, including credit card information, over public networks. there is significant concern by consumers and employees over the security of personal information transmitted over the internet, consumer identity theft, and user privacy. despite the security measures we currently have in place, our facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security 24 breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other internet or email events. any electronic or physical security breach involving the misappropriation, loss, or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential or personally identifiable information, including penetration of our network security, whether by us or by a third party, could disrupt our business, severely damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers, expose us to risks of litigation and liability, and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. since we do not control third-party service providers and cannot guarantee that no electronic or physical computer break-ins and security breaches will occur in the future, any perceived or actual unauthorized disclosure of personally identifiable information regarding our customers or website visitors could harm our reputation and credibility, reduce our e-commerce net sales, impair our ability to attract website visitors, and reduce our ability to attract and retain customers. in addition, as the regulatory environment relating to information security and privacy is becoming increasingly demanding, we may also incur significant costs in complying with the various applicable state, federal, and foreign laws regarding protection of, and unauthorized disclosure of, personal information. our business could suffer if our computer systems and websites are disrupted or cease to operate effectively. we are dependent on our computer systems to record and process transactions and manage and operate our business, including in designing, marketing, manufacturing, importing, tracking, and distributing our products, processing payments, and accounting for, and reporting, results. we also utilize an automated replenishment system to facilitate the processing of basic replenishment orders from our retail segment and our wholesale customers, the movement of goods through distribution channels, and the collection of information for planning and forecasting. in addition, we have e-commerce and other internet websites in north america, europe, and japan and have plans for additional e-commerce sites in asia and other parts of the world. given the complexity of our business and the significant number of transactions that we engage in on an annual basis, it is imperative that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our computer hardware and software systems. despite our preventative efforts, our systems are vulnerable from time to time to damage or interruption from, among other things, security breaches, computer viruses, or power outages. any material disruptions in our information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. implementation of management information systems may negatively impact our business. we are continually improving and upgrading our computer systems and software. for example, we are in the process of implementing a new global operating and financial reporting information technology system as part of a multi-year plan to integrate and upgrade our operational and financial systems and processes. the implementation of this global system, scheduled to occur in phases over the next several years, began with the migration of certain of our domestic human resource systems during fiscal 2011 and continued with the transition of certain of our domestic operational and financial systems to the new global operating and financial reporting system during fiscal 2012. during fiscal 2013, we continued to develop and enhance those operational and financial systems previously transitioned to the new global operating and financial reporting system. the next phase of this implementation effort involves the migration of certain core areas of our business to the new system, including global merchandise procurement, and customer order management and record-to-report for our north american wholesale operations, beginning in fiscal 2014. we have an orderly plan to transition a number of our existing legacy systems to the new system over the next few years. implementation of a new management information system involves risks and uncertainties. any disruptions, delays, or deficiencies in the design or implementation of a new system, such as the new global operating and financial reporting system currently being implemented, could result in increased costs, disruptions in the sourcing and shipment of our product, and delays in the collection of cash from our customers, as well as have an adverse effect on our ability to timely report our financial results, all of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the success of our business depends on our ability to retain the value of our ralph lauren brands and to continue to develop products that resonate with our existing customers and attract new customers. our success depends on the value of our brands and our ability to consistently anticipate and respond to customers' demands, preferences, and fashion trends in the design, pricing, and production of our products. any failure on our part to anticipate, identify, and respond effectively to these consumer demands, preferences, and trends could adversely affect acceptance of our products. the ralph lauren name is integral to our business and our business could be adversely affected if mr. lauren's public image or reputation were to be tarnished. merchandise missteps or unfavorable publicity could negatively impact the image of our brands with our customers and could result in diminished loyalty to our brands, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 25 our business could be negatively impacted by any financial instability of our customers. we sell our wholesale merchandise primarily to major department stores across north america, europe, asia, and latin america and extend credit based on an evaluation of each wholesale customer's financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. however, the financial difficulties of a wholesale customer could cause us to limit or eliminate our business with that customer. we may also assume more credit risk relating to that customer's receivables. during fiscal 2013, sales to our largest wholesale customer, macy's, inc. ("macy's"), accounted for approximately 12% of total net revenues. further, sales to our three largest wholesale customers, including macy's, comprised approximately 45% of all wholesale revenues and approximately 20% of total net revenues for fiscal 2013, and constituted approximately 30% of our gross trade accounts receivable outstanding as of march 30, 2013. our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. see item 1 business wholesale credit control. uncertain economic conditions could have a negative impact on our major customers, suppliers, and lenders, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the uncertain state of the global economy continues to impact businesses around the world. the current global political and economic environments have resulted in continued economic unpredictability in the u.s., europe, and asia. in europe, there are continuing concerns regarding the increased debt levels of certain countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations, as well as the overall stability of the euro currency. although we believe that our cash provided by operations and available borrowing capacity under our credit facilities will provide us with sufficient liquidity through the current global economic uncertainty, the impact of economic conditions on our major customers, suppliers, and lenders and their ability to access global capital markets cannot be predicted. the inability of major manufacturers to ship our products could impair our ability to meet the delivery date requirements of our customers. deterioration in global financial markets could affect our ability to access sources of liquidity to provide for our future cash needs, increase the cost of any future financing, or cause our lenders to be unable to meet their funding commitments under our credit facilities. a disruption in the ability of our significant customers to access liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their businesses which could lead to a significant reduction in their future orders of our products and the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our business is subject to risks associated with importing products and could suffer as a result of increases in the price of raw materials, freight, or labor or a manufacturer's inability to produce our goods on time and to our specifications. we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and depend exclusively on independent third parties for the manufacture of our products. our products are manufactured to our specifications through arrangements with over 700 foreign manufacturers in various countries. in fiscal 2013, over 98% of our products (by dollar value) were produced outside the u.s., primarily in asia, europe, and latin america. risks inherent in importing our products include: changes in social, political, and economic conditions or terrorist acts that could result in the disruption of trade from the countries in which our manufacturers or suppliers are located; the imposition of additional regulations relating to imports or exports; the imposition of additional duties, taxes, and other charges on imports or exports; significant fluctuations in the cost of raw materials; increases in the cost of labor, fuel, travel, and transportation; disruptions of shipping and international trade caused by natural and man-made disasters; significant delays in the delivery of cargo due to security considerations; the imposition of anti-dumping or countervailing duty proceedings resulting in the potential assessment of special anti-dumping or countervailing duties; and the imposition of sanctions in the form of additional duties either by the u.s. or its trading partners to remedy perceived illegal actions by national governments. any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 26 in addition, the inability of a manufacturer to ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our strict quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items, which could result in cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries, or a substantial reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. prices of raw materials used to manufacture our products may also fluctuate, and increases in prices of such raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales. furthermore, the cost of labor at many of our third-party manufacturers has been increasing significantly and, as the middle class in developing countries such as china continues to grow, it is unlikely that such cost pressure will abate. the cost of transportation has been increasing as well, and it is unlikely that such cost pressure will abate if oil prices continue to rise and there is continued significant unrest in the middle east. we may not be able to offset such increases in raw materials, freight, or labor costs through pricing actions or other means. our profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. our industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products, and changes in consumer spending patterns. these factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, which could cause our gross margin to decline if we are unable to appropriately manage inventory levels and/or otherwise offset price reductions with comparable reductions in our operating costs. if our sales prices decline and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, our profitability will decline. this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, changes in our customer, channel, and geographic sales mix could have a negative impact on our profitability. our business is exposed to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations. we generally purchase our products in u.s. dollars. however, we source most of our products overseas. as a result, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the u.s. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated prices at which our international businesses sell products. furthermore, our international sales are primarily derived from sales in foreign currencies, as is a portion of our licensing revenues, which could be materially affected by currency fluctuations. these foreign currencies primarily include the euro, the japanese yen, the hong kong dollar, the south korean won, the canadian dollar, the swiss franc, and the british pound sterling. our international expansion will increase our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. although we hedge certain exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates arising in the ordinary course of business, we cannot fully anticipate all of our currency exposures and therefore foreign currency fluctuations may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, factors that could impact the effectiveness of our hedging activities include the volatility of currency markets, the accuracy of forecasted transactions, and the availability of hedging instruments. as such, our hedging activities may not completely mitigate the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations. see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk managemen t. fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may result in volatility of our operating results. we are subject to income taxes in many u.s. and certain foreign jurisdictions. we record tax expense based on our estimates of future payments, which include reserves for uncertain tax positions in multiple tax jurisdictions. at any one time, multiple tax years are subject to audit by various taxing authorities. the results of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may affect the ultimate settlement of these issues. in addition, the tax laws and regulations in the countries where we operate may change or there may be changes in interpretation and enforcement of existing tax laws, which could materially affect our income tax expense in our consolidated financial statements. as a result, we expect that throughout the year there could be ongoing variability in our quarterly tax rates as events occur and exposures are evaluated. in addition, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be materially impacted by changes in the mix and level of earnings by jurisdiction or by changes to existing accounting rules or regulations. we have significant undistributed earnings held by our subsidiaries outside the u.s. most of our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments are held outside of the u.s. and are considered to be permanently reinvested. we currently intend to reinvest these funds in order to fund strategic initiatives, working capital requirements, and debt repayments (both third-party and intercompany) of such foreign subsidiaries. any future repatriation of such amounts to the u.s. could result in a significant incremental tax liability in the period in which the decision to repatriate is made. 27 our company has an exclusive relationship with certain customers for some of our products. the loss or significant decline in business of these customers could negatively impact our business. we have exclusive relationships with certain customers for distribution of some of our products, including with kohl's for most of our chaps products. our arrangement with companies such as kohl's makes us dependent on those companies' financial and operational health for such products. the loss of these relationships could have an adverse effect on our wholesale business. our business could suffer as a result of consolidations, liquidations, restructurings, and other ownership changes in the retail industry. several of our department store customers, including some under common ownership, account for a significant portion of our wholesale net sales. a substantial portion of sales of our licensed products by our domestic licensing partners are also made to our largest department store customers. during fiscal 2013, sales to our largest wholesale customer, macy's, accounted for approximately 12% of total net revenues. further, sales to our three largest wholesale customers, including macy's, comprised approximately 45% of all wholesale revenues and approximately 20% of total net revenues for fiscal 2013, and constituted approximately 30% of our gross trade accounts receivable outstanding as of march 30, 2013. there can be no assurance that consolidations, restructurings, reorganizations, or other ownership changes in the department store sector will not have a material adverse effect on our wholesale business. we typically do not enter into long-term agreements with our customers. instead, we enter into a number of purchase order commitments with our customers for each of our lines every season. a decision by the controlling owner of a group of stores or any other significant customer, whether motivated by competitive conditions, financial difficulties, or otherwise, to decrease or eliminate the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing partners or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing partners or their new strategic and operational initiatives, including their continued focus on further development of their private label initiatives, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. certain legal proceedings, regulatory matters, and accounting changes could adversely impact our results of operations. we are involved in certain legal proceedings and regulatory matters and are subject from time to time to various claims involving alleged breach of contract claims, intellectual property and other related claims, escheatment and unclaimed property, credit card fraud, security breaches in certain of our retail store information systems, employment issues, consumer matters, and other litigation. certain of these lawsuits and claims, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, could result in material liability to our company or have a negative impact on our reputation or relations with our employees, customers, licensees, or other third parties. in addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, such proceedings could result in substantial costs and may require our company to devote substantial time and resources to defend itself. further, changes in governmental regulations both in the u.s. and in other countries where we conduct business operations, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. see item 3 legal proceedings for further discussion of our company's legal matters. in addition, we are subject to changes in accounting rules and interpretations. the financial accounting standards board is currently in the process of amending a number of existing accounting standards governing a variety of areas. certain of these proposed standards, particularly the proposed standard governing accounting for leases, if and when effective, would likely have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. see note 4 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements for further discussion of proposed amendments to current accounting standards. our results of operations could be affected by natural events in the locations in which we or our customers or suppliers operate. we have operations, including retail, distribution, and warehousing operations, in locations subject to natural disasters, such as severe weather and geological events, that could disrupt our operations. in addition, our suppliers and customers also have operations in these locations and could experience similar disruptions. the occurrence of natural events may result in sudden disruptions in the business operations of the local economies affected, as well as of the regional and global economies. in addition, our business is affected by unseasonable weather conditions, such as extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures in the winter or unseasonably cold temperatures in the summer. such natural events, including unseasonable weather conditions, could result in decreased demand for our products and disruptions in our sales channels and manufacturing and distribution networks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 28 our trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected outside the u.s. we believe that our trademarks, intellectual property, and other proprietary rights are extremely important to our success and our competitive position. we devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and anti-counterfeiting activities worldwide. significant counterfeiting of our products continues, however, and in the course of our international expansion we have experienced conflicts with various third parties that have acquired or claimed ownership rights to some trademarks that include polo and/or a representation of a polo player astride a horse, or otherwise have contested our rights to our trademarks. we have in the past resolved certain of these conflicts through both legal action and negotiated settlements, none of which, we believe, has had a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. we cannot guarantee that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent counterfeiting or a material adverse effect on our business or brands arising from imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and proprietary rights of others. also, there can be no assurance that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of ours or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction or at all. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect trademarks or other proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the u.s. and, as a result, our intellectual property may be more vulnerable and difficult to protect in such countries. see item 1 business trademarks, and item 3 legal proceedings. our business could suffer if one of our manufacturers fails to use acceptable labor or environmental practices. we require our licensing partners and independent manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. while our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices and our employees periodically visit and monitor the operations of our independent manufacturers, we do not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. the violation of labor, environmental, or other laws by an independent manufacturer used by us or one of our licensing partners, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer's or licensing partner's labor or environmental practices from those generally accepted as ethical or appropriate in the u.s., could interrupt, or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. any of these events, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our business could suffer if we need to replace manufacturers or distribution centers. we compete with other companies for the production capacity of our manufacturers. some of these competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have, and thus may have an advantage in securing production capacity. if we experience a significant increase in demand, or if an existing manufacturer of ours must be replaced, we may have to expand our third-party manufacturing capacity. we cannot guarantee that this additional capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us. see item 1 business sourcing, production and quality. we enter into a number of purchase order commitments each season specifying a time for delivery, method of payment, design and quality specifications, and other standard industry provisions, but do not have long-term contracts with any manufacturer. none of the manufacturers we use produce our products exclusively. in addition, we rely on a number of owned and independently-operated distribution facilities around the world to warehouse and ship products to our customers and perform other related logistic services. as such, our ability to meet the needs of our customers depends on the proper operation of our distribution centers. if any of our distribution centers were closed or were to become inoperable for any reason, we could experience a substantial loss of inventory, disruption of deliveries to our customers and our retail stores, increased costs, and longer lead times associated with the distribution of products during the period that would be required to reopen or replace the facility. these disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we rely on our licensing partners to preserve the value of our licenses. the risks associated with our own products also apply to our licensed products in addition to any number of possible risks specific to a licensing partner's business, including risks associated with a particular licensing partner's ability to: obtain capital; manage its labor relations; maintain relationships with its suppliers; 29 manage its credit and bankruptcy risks effectively; and maintain relationships with its customers. although a number of our license agreements prohibit our licensing partners from entering into licensing arrangements with our competitors, our licensing partners generally are not precluded from offering, under other non-competitor brands, the types of products covered by their license agreements with us. a substantial portion of sales of our products by our domestic licensing partners are also made to our largest customers. while we have significant control over our licensing partners' products and advertising, we rely on our licensing partners for, among other things, operational and financial control over their businesses. changes in management, reduced sales of licensed products, poor execution, or financial difficulties with respect to any of our licensing partners could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. see item 1 business our licensing segment. failure to maintain licensing partners could harm our business. although we believe that we could replace our existing licensing partners in most circumstances, if necessary, our inability to do so for any period of time could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. see item 1 business our licensing segment. the voting shares of our company's stock are concentrated in one majority stockholder. as of march 30, 2013, mr. ralph lauren, or entities controlled by the lauren family, owned approximately 83% of the voting power of the outstanding common stock of our company. mr. lauren also serves as our chairman of the board and chief executive officer, and we employ other members of the lauren family. from time to time, and as approved or authorized by our board of directors, we may have other business dealings with mr. lauren, members of the lauren family, or entities affiliated with mr. lauren or the lauren family. as a result of his stock ownership and position in our company, mr. lauren has the ability to exercise significant control over our business, including, without limitation, (i) the election of our class b common stock directors, voting separately as a class, and (ii) any action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation and the approval of mergers or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. the trading prices of our securities periodically may rise or fall based on the accuracy of predictions of our earnings or other financial performance. our business planning process is designed to maximize our long-term strength, growth, and profitability, and not to achieve an earnings target in any particular fiscal quarter. we believe that this longer-term focus is in the best interests of our company and our stockholders. at the same time, however, we recognize that, from time to time, it may be helpful to provide investors with guidance as to our quarterly and annual forecast of net sales and earnings. while we generally expect to provide updates to our guidance when we report our results each fiscal quarter, we assume no responsibility to update any of our forward-looking statements at such times or otherwise. if, and when, we announce actual results that differ from those that have been predicted by us, outside analysts, or others, the market price of our securities could be adversely affected. investors who rely on these predictions when making investment decisions with respect to our securities do so at their own risk. we take no responsibility for any losses suffered as a result of such changes in the prices of our securities. risks relating to the industry in which we compete the downturn in the global economy may continue to affect consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the industries in which we operate are cyclical. many economic factors outside of our control affect the level of consumer spending in the apparel, cosmetic, fragrance, accessory, jewelry, watch, and home product industries, including, among others: general business conditions; economic downturns; employment levels; downturns in the stock market; interest rates; 30 the housing market; consumer debt levels; the availability of consumer credit; increases in fuel prices; taxation; and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, including our products, tend to decline during recessionary periods and at other times when disposable income is lower. a downturn or an uncertain outlook in the economies in which we, or our licensing partners, sell our products may materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, and results of operations. see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations global economic developments for further discussion. the domestic and international political situation also affects consumer confidence. the threat, outbreak, or escalation of terrorism, military conflicts or other hostilities could lead to a decrease in consumer spending and may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we face intense competition worldwide in the markets in which we operate. we face intense competition from other domestic and foreign fashion-oriented apparel, footwear, accessory, and casual apparel producers, some of which may be significantly larger and more diversified and may have greater financial and marketing resources than us. we compete with these companies primarily on the basis of: anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; creating and maintaining favorable brand recognition, loyalty, and a reputation for quality; developing and maintaining innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors, and styles that appeal to consumers; appropriately sourcing raw materials at cost-effective prices; appropriately pricing products; anticipating and maintaining proper inventory levels; providing strong and effective marketing support; retaining and recruiting key employees; creating an acceptable value proposition for retail customers; ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain and distribution efficiencies with manufacturers and retailers; obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at retail stores; maintaining and growing market share; and protecting our intellectual property. we also face increasing competition from companies selling apparel, accessories, home, and other of our product categories through the internet. although we sell our products through the internet, increased competition in the worldwide apparel, accessory, and home product industries from internet-based competitors could reduce our sales, prices, and margins and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. any increased competition, or our failure to adequately address any of these competitive factors, could result in reduced market share or sales, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 31 the success of our business depends on our ability to respond to constantly changing fashion and retail trends and consumer demands in a timely manner. the industries in which we operate have historically been subject to rapidly changing fashion trends and consumer preferences. our success depends in large part on our ability to originate and define fashion product and home product trends, as well as to anticipate, gauge, and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers worldwide whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change, influenced by fashion trends, current economic conditions, and weather conditions, among other factors. we cannot assure that we will be able to continue to develop appealing styles or successfully meet constantly changing consumer demands in the future. in addition, we cannot assure that any new products or brands that we introduce will be successfully received by consumers. any failure on our part to anticipate, identify, and respond effectively to changing consumer demands and fashion trends could adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of our products and leave us with a substantial amount of unsold inventory or missed opportunities. if that occurs, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess, slow-moving inventory, which may harm our business and impair the image of our brands. conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if manufacturers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages, which may result in unfilled orders, negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty, and result in lost revenues. any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. see item 1 business sourcing, production and quality. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. for a discussion of our exposure to market risk, see market risk management in item 7 included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors there are risks associated with an investment in our securities. the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risk factors could materially adversely affect our business, our prospects, our results of operations, our financial condition, our liquidity, the trading price of our securities, and/or the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently view as immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition in future periods or if circumstances change. risks related to our business the loss of the services of mr. ralph lauren, members of our executive management team, or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. mr. ralph lauren's leadership in the design, marketing, and operational areas of our business has been a critical element of our success since the inception of our company. mr. lauren is instrumental to, and closely identified with, our brand that bears his name. our ability to maintain our brand image and leverage the goodwill associated with mr. lauren's name may be damaged if we were to lose his services. we depend on the service and management experience of mr. lauren and other key executive officers, who have substantial experience and expertise in our industry and our business. the death or disability of mr. lauren or other extended or permanent loss of his services, or any negative market or industry perception with respect to him or arising from his loss, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our other executive officers and other members of senior management have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our growth and success. the loss of the services of any of the key members of senior management, including members of the office of the chairman, or one or more of our other key personnel, or the concurrent loss of several of these individuals or any negative public perception with respect to these individuals, could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we are not protected by a material amount of key-man or similar life insurance covering mr. lauren, our other executive officers, or other members of senior management. we have entered into employment agreements with mr. lauren and certain other executive officers, but competition for experienced executives in our industry is intense and the non-compete period with respect to mr. lauren and certain other executive officers could, in some circumstances in the event of their termination of employment with our company, end prior to the employment term set forth in their employment agreements. we cannot assure the successful implementation of our growth strategy. as part of our growth strategy, we seek to extend our brands and merchandise categories, expand our geographic coverage, and increase direct management of our brands by opening more of our own stores, strategically acquiring or integrating into our existing operations select businesses previously held by our licensees, and enhancing our operations. implementation of our strategy involves the continued expansion of our business in north america, asia, europe, latin america, and other international areas. for example, as discussed in item 1 " business recent developments, " we completed the chaps menswear license acquisition in april 2013 and the australia and new zealand licensed operations acquisition in july 2013. we may have difficulty integrating acquired businesses into our operations, hiring and retaining qualified key employees, or otherwise successfully managing such expansion. furthermore, we may not be able to successfully integrate the business of any licensee that we acquire into our own business, we may incur additional costs, and we may fail to achieve any expected cost savings or synergies from such integration. implementation of our growth strategy involves the continuation and expansion of our retail distribution network on a global basis, including our e-commerce operations, which is subject to many factors beyond our control. we may not be able to procure, purchase, or lease desirable freestanding or department store locations, renew and maintain existing freestanding store leases and department store locations on acceptable terms, or secure suitable replacement locations. the lease negotiation, as well as the number and timing of new stores and shop-within-shop locations actually opened during any given period and their associated contribution to net income for the period, depends on a number of factors including, but not limited to: (i) the availability of suitable financing to us and our landlords; (ii) the timing of the delivery of the leased premises to us from our landlords in order to commence build-out construction activities; (iii) our ability and our landlords' ability to obtain all necessary governmental licenses and permits to construct and operate our stores on a timely basis; (iv) our ability to manage the construction and development costs of new stores; (v) the rectification of any unforeseen engineering or environmental problems with the leased premises; (vi) adverse weather conditions during the construction period; and (vii) the hiring and training of qualified operating personnel 22 in the local market. in addition, the success of our e-commerce operations depends on our ability to maintain and upgrade our e-commerce platform to provide our customers with a seamless shopping experience. while we continue to explore new markets and are always evaluating new potential locations, any of the above factors could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. further, as we continue to expand and increase the global presence of our e-commerce business, sales from our brick and mortar stores and wholesale channels of distribution in areas where e-commerce sites are introduced may decline due to changes in consumer shopping habits and cannibalization. in europe, we lack the large wholesale distribution channels we have in the u.s., and we may have difficulty developing and maintaining successful distribution strategies and alliances in certain major european countries. in asia, our primary mode of distribution is via a network of shops located within leading department stores. as we operate a direct-to-consumer business in this region and face established competitors, who in some cases maintain licensing relationships with such department stores, we may have difficulty in successfully retaining this network and expanding into alternate distribution channels. in addition, certain of the international countries in which we operate, particularly in asia, have unique operational characteristics that vary from the u.s., including but not limited to employment and labor, transportation, logistics, acquiring store locations, and legal requirements, which may pose challenges to the execution and success of our related growth strategies. further, macroeconomic trends may not be favorable and could limit our ability to implement our growth strategies in select geographies where we have foreign operations, such as europe, asia, australia, new zealand, and latin america. achievement of our growth strategy requires investment in new capabilities, distribution channels, and technologies worldwide. these investments may result in short-term costs without accompanying current revenues and, therefore, may be dilutive to our earnings in the short term. in addition, we may continue to incur costs in connection with repositioning our business in certain geographic areas, including in asia. although we believe that our strategy will lead to long-term growth in revenue and profitability, the anticipated benefits may not be fully realized. our ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political, and economic risks. our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to maintain our current level of operations in our existing international markets is subject to certain risks associated with operating in various international locations. these include, but are not limited to: the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, including trade and labor restrictions; compliance with u.s. and other country laws relating to foreign operations, including, but not limited to, the foreign corrupt practices act, which prohibits u.s. companies from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and the u.k. bribery act, which prohibits u.k. and related companies from any form of bribery; unexpected changes in laws, judicial processes, or regulatory requirements; adapting to local customs and culture; and new tariffs or other barriers in certain international markets. we are also subject to general political and economic risks in connection with our international operations, including: political instability and terrorist attacks; changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, including sanctions resulting from the current political situation in russia and ukraine; and general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets. we cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, or other similar restrictions will be imposed by the u.s., the european union, asia, or other countries upon the import or export of our products in the future, or what effect any of these actions would have, if any, on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. changes in regulatory, geopolitical, social, or economic policies and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our business in the future, or may require us to exit a particular market or significantly modify our current business practices. 23 a data security or privacy breach could damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers, expose us to litigation risk, and adversely affect our business. we are dependent on information technology systems and networks, including the internet, for a significant portion of our direct-to-consumer sales, including our e-commerce operations and retail business credit card transaction authorization and processing. we are also responsible for storing data relating to our customers and employees and rely on third parties for the operation of our e-commerce websites and for the various social media tools and websites we use as part of our marketing strategy. in our normal course of business, we often collect, retain, and transmit certain sensitive and confidential customer information, including credit card information, over public networks. there is significant concern by consumers and employees over the security of personal information transmitted over the internet, consumer identity theft, and user privacy. despite the security measures we currently have in place, our facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other internet or email events. any perceived or actual electronic or physical security breach involving the misappropriation, loss, or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential or personally identifiable information, including penetration of our network security, whether by us or by a third-party, could disrupt our business, severely damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers, expose us to risks of litigation, fines and penalties, and liability, and result in deterioration in our employees' and customers' confidence in us, and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. since we do not control third-party service providers and cannot guarantee that no electronic or physical computer break-ins and security breaches will occur in the future, any perceived or actual unauthorized disclosure of personally identifiable information regarding our customers or website visitors could harm our reputation and credibility, reduce our e-commerce net sales, impair our ability to attract website visitors, and reduce our ability to attract and retain customers. as these threats develop and grow, we may find it necessary to make significant further investments to protect data and infrastructure. in addition, as the regulatory environment relating to information security and privacy is becoming increasingly demanding, we may also incur significant costs in complying with the various applicable state, federal, and foreign laws regarding protection of, and unauthorized disclosure of, personal information. implementation of management information systems may negatively impact our business. we are continually improving and upgrading our computer systems and software. for example, we are in the process of implementing a new global operating and financial reporting information technology system, sap, as part of a multi-year plan to integrate and upgrade our operational and financial systems and processes, which began in fiscal 2011. during fiscal 2014, we continued to migrate certain areas of our business to sap, including global merchandise procurement, customer order management, and record-to-report for our north american wholesale operations, which is scheduled to be completed in fiscal 2015. during fiscal 2015, we will also begin planning the migration of our european operations to sap, which will be completed in stages over the next several years. we have an orderly plan to transition a number of our existing legacy systems to the new system over the next few years. implementation of a new management information system involves risks and uncertainties. any disruptions, delays, or deficiencies in the design or implementation of a new system, such as the new global operating and financial reporting system currently being implemented, could result in increased costs, disruptions in the sourcing and shipment of our product, and delays in the collection of cash from our customers, as well as have an adverse effect on our ability to timely report our financial results, all of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our business could suffer if our computer systems and websites are disrupted or cease to operate effectively. we are dependent on our computer systems to record and process transactions and manage and operate our business, including in designing, marketing, manufacturing, importing, tracking, and distributing our products, processing payments, and accounting for and reporting results. we also utilize an automated replenishment system to facilitate the processing of basic replenishment orders from our retail segment and our wholesale customers, the movement of goods through distribution channels, and the collection of information for planning and forecasting. in addition, we have e-commerce and other internet websites in north america, europe, japan, and south korea, and have plans for additional e-commerce sites in asia and other parts of the world. given the complexity of our business and the significant number of transactions that we engage in on a daily basis, it is imperative that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our computer hardware and software systems. despite our preventative efforts, our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from, among other things, security breaches, computer viruses, malfunctions, or power outages. any material disruptions in our information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 24 the success of our business depends on our ability to retain the value of our ralph lauren brands, to continue to develop products that resonate with our existing customers and attract new customers, and to provide a seamless shopping experience to our customers. our success depends on the value of our brands and our ability to consistently anticipate and respond to customers' demands, preferences, and fashion trends in the design, pricing, and production of our products, including the preference for certain products to be manufactured in the u.s. any failure on our part to anticipate, identify, and respond effectively to these consumer demands, preferences, and trends could adversely affect acceptance of our products. the ralph lauren name is integral to our business and our business could be adversely affected if mr. lauren's public image or reputation were to be tarnished. merchandise missteps or unfavorable publicity, especially through social media which accelerates and increases the potential scope of negative publicity, could negatively impact the image of our brands with our customers and could result in diminished loyalty to our brands, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. the success of our business also depends on our ability to continue to develop and maintain a reliable omni-channel experience for our customers. our business has evolved from an in-store experience to a shopping experience through multiple technologies, including computers, mobile phones, tablets, and other devices, as our customers have become increasingly technologically savvy. we strive to offer an omni-channel shopping experience to our customers and use social media to interact with our customers and enhance their shopping experience. if we are unable to develop and continuously improve our customer-facing technologies, we may not be able to provide a convenient and consistent experience to our customers regardless of the sales channel. this could negatively affect our ability to compete with other retailers and result in diminished loyalty to our brands, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our business is subject to risks associated with importing products and could suffer as a result of increases in the price of raw materials, freight, or labor; or a manufacturer's inability to produce our goods on time and to our specifications. we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and depend exclusively on independent third parties for the manufacture of our products. our products are manufactured to our specifications through arrangements with over 700 foreign manufacturers in various countries. in fiscal 2014, over 98% of our products (by dollar value) were produced outside the u.s., primarily in asia, europe, and latin america. risks inherent in importing our products include: changes in social, political, and economic conditions or terrorist acts that could result in the disruption of trade from the countries in which our manufacturers or suppliers are located; the imposition of additional regulations relating to imports or exports, and costs of complying with laws relating to the identification and reporting of the sources of minerals used in the company's products; the imposition of additional duties, taxes, and other charges on imports or exports; significant fluctuations in the cost of raw materials; increases in the cost of labor, fuel, travel, and transportation; disruptions of shipping and international trade caused by natural and man-made disasters; significant delays in the delivery of cargo due to security considerations; the imposition of anti-dumping or countervailing duty proceedings resulting in the potential assessment of special anti-dumping or countervailing duties; and the imposition of sanctions in the form of additional duties either by the u.s. or its trading partners to remedy perceived illegal actions by national governments. any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. in addition, the inability of a manufacturer to ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our strict quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items, which could result in cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries, or a substantial reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. prices of raw materials used to manufacture our products may also fluctuate, and increases in prices of such raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales. furthermore, the cost of labor at many of our third-party manufacturers has been increasing significantly and, as the middle class in developing countries such as china continues to grow, it is unlikely that such cost pressure will abate. the cost of transportation 25 remains high as well, and it is unlikely that such cost pressure will abate if oil prices remain elevated or rise. we may not be able to offset such increases in raw materials, freight, or labor costs through pricing actions or other means. our business could suffer if we fail to comply with labor laws or if one of our manufacturers fails to use acceptable labor or environmental practices. we are subject to labor laws governing relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions, and citizenship requirements. compliance with these laws may lead to increased costs and operational complexity and may increase our exposure to governmental investigations or litigation. in addition, we require our licensing partners and independent manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. while our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices and our employees periodically visit and monitor the operations of our independent manufacturers, we do not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. the violation of labor, environmental, or other laws by an independent manufacturer used by us or one of our licensing partners, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer's or licensing partner's labor or environmental practices from those generally accepted as ethical or appropriate in the u.s., could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. any of these events, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our business could be negatively impacted by any financial instability of our customers. we sell our wholesale merchandise primarily to major department stores across north america, europe, asia, australia, and latin america and extend credit based on an evaluation of each wholesale customer's financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. however, the financial difficulties of a wholesale customer could cause us to limit or eliminate our business with that customer. we may also assume more credit risk relating to that customer's receivables. during fiscal 2014, sales to our largest wholesale customer, macy's, accounted for approximately 12% of total net revenues. further, sales to our three largest wholesale customers, including macy's, comprised approximately 25% of total net revenues for fiscal 2014, and constituted approximately 35% of our gross trade accounts receivable outstanding as of march 29, 2014. our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. see item 1 " business wholesale credit control. " uncertain economic conditions could have a negative impact on our major customers, suppliers, and lenders, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. the uncertain state of the global economy continues to impact businesses around the world. the current global political and economic environments have resulted in continued economic unpredictability in the u.s., europe, and asia. although we believe that our cash provided by operations and available borrowing capacity under our credit facilities will provide us with sufficient liquidity through the current global economic uncertainty, the impact of economic conditions on our major customers, suppliers, and lenders and their ability to access global capital markets cannot be predicted. the inability of major manufacturers to ship our products could impair our ability to meet the delivery date requirements of our customers. deterioration in global financial markets could affect our ability to access sources of liquidity to provide for our future cash needs, increase the cost of any future financing, or cause our lenders to be unable to meet their funding commitments under our credit facilities. a disruption in the ability of our significant customers to access liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their businesses which could lead to a significant reduction in their future orders of our products and the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. our industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition and a highly promotional environment, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products, and changes in consumer spending patterns. these factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, which could cause our gross margin to decline if we are unable to appropriately manage inventory levels and/or otherwise offset price reductions with comparable reductions in our costs. if our sales prices decline and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, our profitability will decline. this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. in addition, changes in our customer, channel, and geographic sales mix could have a negative impact on our profitability. 26 our business is exposed to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations. we generally purchase our products in u.s. dollars. however, we source most of our products overseas. as a result, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the u.s. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated prices at which our international businesses sell products. these foreign currencies primarily include the euro, the japanese yen, the hong kong dollar, the south korean won, the canadian dollar, the swiss franc, the british pound sterling, and the australian dollar. our international expansion will increase our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. although we hedge certain exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates arising in the ordinary course of business, we cannot fully anticipate all of our currency exposures and therefore foreign currency fluctuations may have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. in addition, factors that could impact the effectiveness of our hedging activities include the volatility of currency markets, the accuracy of forecasted transactions, and the availability of hedging instruments. as such, our hedging activities may not completely mitigate the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations. see item 7 " management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk management ." our trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected outside the u.s. we believe that our trademarks, intellectual property, and other proprietary rights are extremely important to our success and our competitive position. we devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and anti-counterfeiting activities worldwide. however, significant counterfeiting of our products continues, and in the course of our international expansion we have experienced conflicts with various third parties that have acquired or claimed ownership rights to some trademarks that include polo and/or a representation of a polo player astride a horse, or otherwise have contested our rights to our trademarks. we have in the past resolved certain of these conflicts through both legal action and negotiated settlements, none of which, we believe, has had a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition. we cannot guarantee that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent counterfeiting or a material adverse effect on our business or brands arising from imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and proprietary rights of others. also, there can be no assurance that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of ours or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction or at all. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect trademarks or other proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the u.s. and, as a result, our intellectual property may be more vulnerable and difficult to protect in such countries. see item 1 " business trademarks, " and item 3 " legal proceedings. " fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may result in volatility of our operating results. we are subject to income taxes in many u.s. and certain foreign jurisdictions. we record tax expense based on our estimates of future payments, which include reserves for uncertain tax positions in multiple tax jurisdictions. at any one time, multiple tax years are subject to audit by various taxing authorities. the results of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may affect the ultimate settlement of these issues. in addition, the tax laws and regulations in the countries where we operate may change or there may be changes in interpretation and enforcement of existing tax laws, which could materially affect our income tax expense in our consolidated financial statements. as a result, we expect that throughout the year there could be ongoing variability in our quarterly tax rates as events occur and exposures are evaluated. in addition, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be materially impacted by changes in the mix and level of earnings by jurisdiction or by changes to existing accounting rules or regulations. we have significant undistributed earnings held by our subsidiaries outside the u.s. most of our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments are held outside of the u.s. and are considered to be permanently reinvested. we currently intend to reinvest these funds in order to fund strategic initiatives, working capital requirements, and debt repayments (both third-party and intercompany) of such foreign subsidiaries. any future repatriation of such amounts to the u.s. could result in a significant incremental tax liability in the period in which the decision to repatriate is made. our company has an exclusive relationship with certain customers for some of our products. the loss or significant decline in business of these customers could negatively impact our business. we have exclusive relationships with certain customers for the distribution of some of our products. our arrangement with these companies makes us dependent on those companies' financial and operational health for the sale of such products. the loss of these relationships could have an adverse effect on our wholesale business. 27 our business could suffer as a result of consolidations, liquidations, restructurings, and other ownership changes in the retail industry. several of our department store customers, including some under common ownership, account for a significant portion of our wholesale net sales. a substantial portion of sales of our licensed products by our domestic licensing partners are also made to our largest department store customers. during fiscal 2014, sales to our largest wholesale customer, macy's, accounted for approximately 12% of total net revenues. further, sales to our three largest wholesale customers, including macy's, comprised approximately 25% of total net revenues for fiscal 2014, and constituted approximately 35% of our gross trade accounts receivable outstanding as of march 29, 2014. there can be no assurance that consolidations, restructurings, reorganizations, or other ownership changes in the department store sector will not have a material adverse effect on our wholesale business. we typically do not enter into long-term agreements with our customers. instead, we enter into a number of purchase order commitments with our customers for each of our product lines every season. a decision by the controlling owner of a group of stores or any other significant customer, whether motivated by competitive conditions, financial difficulties, or otherwise, to decrease or eliminate the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing partners or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing partners or their new strategic and operational initiatives, including their continued focus on further development of their "private label" initiatives, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. certain legal proceedings, regulatory matters, and accounting changes could adversely impact our results of operations. we are involved in certain legal proceedings and regulatory matters and are subject from time to time to various claims involving alleged breach of contract claims, intellectual property and other related claims, escheatment and unclaimed property, credit card fraud, security breaches in certain of our retail store information systems, employment issues, consumer matters, and other litigation. certain of these lawsuits and claims, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, could result in material liability to our company or have a negative impact on our reputation or relations with our employees, customers, licensees, or other third parties. in addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, such proceedings could result in substantial costs and may require our company to devote substantial time and resources to defend itself. further, changes in governmental regulations both in the u.s. and in other countries where we conduct business operations could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. see item 3 " legal proceedings " for further discussion of our company's legal matters. in addition, we are subject to changes in accounting rules and interpretations. the financial accounting standards board is currently in the process of amending a number of existing accounting standards governing a variety of areas. certain of these proposed standards, particularly the proposed standard governing accounting for leases, if and when effective, would likely have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. see note 4 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements for further discussion of proposed amendments to current accounting standards. our results of operations could be affected by natural events in the locations in which we or our customers or suppliers operate. we have operations, including retail, distribution, and warehousing operations, in locations subject to natural disasters, such as severe weather and geological events, that could disrupt our operations. in addition, our suppliers and customers also have operations in these locations and could experience similar disruptions. the occurrence of natural events may result in sudden disruptions in the business operations of the local economies affected, as well as of the regional and global economies. in addition, our business is affected by unseasonable weather conditions, such as extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures in the winter or unseasonably cold temperatures in the summer. such natural events, including unseasonable weather conditions, could result in decreased demand for our products and disruptions in our sales channels and manufacturing and distribution networks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our business could suffer if we need to replace manufacturers or distribution centers. we compete with other companies for the production capacity of our manufacturers. some of these competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have, and thus may have an advantage in securing production capacity. if we experience a significant increase in demand, or if an existing manufacturer of ours must be replaced, we may have to expand our third-party manufacturing capacity. we cannot guarantee that this additional capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us. see item 1 " business sourcing, production and quality. " we enter into a number of purchase order commitments each season specifying a time for delivery, method of payment, design and quality specifications, and other standard 28 industry provisions, but do not have long-term contracts with any manufacturer. none of the manufacturers we use produce our products exclusively. in addition, we rely on a number of owned and independently-operated distribution facilities around the world to warehouse and ship products to our customers and perform other related logistic services. as such, our ability to meet the needs of our customers depends on the proper operation of these distribution centers. if any of our distribution centers were closed or were to become inoperable for any reason, we could experience a substantial loss of inventory, disruption of deliveries to our customers and our retail stores, increased costs, and longer lead times associated with the distribution of products during the period that would be required to reopen or replace the facility. these disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. the voting shares of our company's stock are concentrated in one majority stockholder. as of march 29, 2014, mr. ralph lauren, or entities controlled by the lauren family, held approximately 81% of the voting power of the outstanding common stock of our company. mr. lauren also serves as our chairman of the board and chief executive officer, david lauren is a director on our board, and we employ other members of the lauren family. from time to time, we may have other business dealings with mr. lauren, members of the lauren family, or entities affiliated with mr. lauren or the lauren family. as a result of his stock ownership and position in our company, mr. lauren has the ability to exercise significant control over our business, including, without limitation, (i) the election of our class b common stock directors, voting separately as a class and (ii) any action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation and the approval of mergers or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. the trading prices of our securities periodically may rise or fall based on the accuracy of predictions of our earnings or other financial performance. our business planning process is designed to maximize our long-term strength, growth, and profitability, and not to achieve an earnings target in any particular fiscal quarter. we believe that this longer-term focus is in the best interests of our company and our stockholders. at the same time, however, we recognize that, from time to time, it may be helpful to provide investors with guidance as to our quarterly and annual forecast of net sales and earnings. while we generally expect to provide updates to our guidance when we report our results each fiscal quarter, we assume no responsibility to update any of our forward-looking statements at such times or otherwise. if, and when, we announce actual results that differ from those that have been predicted by us, outside analysts, or others, the market price of our securities could be adversely affected. investors who rely on these predictions when making investment decisions with respect to our securities do so at their own risk. we take no responsibility for any losses suffered as a result of such changes in the prices of our securities. we rely on our licensing partners to preserve the value of our licenses. the risks associated with our own products also apply to our licensed products in addition to any number of possible risks specific to a licensing partner's business, including risks associated with a particular licensing partner's ability to: obtain capital; manage its labor relations; maintain relationships with its suppliers; manage its credit and bankruptcy risks effectively; and maintain relationships with its customers. although a number of our license agreements prohibit our licensing partners from entering into licensing arrangements with our competitors, our licensing partners generally are not precluded from offering, under other non-competitor brands, the types of products covered by their license agreements with us. a substantial portion of sales of our products by our domestic licensing partners are also made to our largest customers. while we have significant control over our licensing partners' products and advertising, we rely on our licensing partners for, among other things, operational and financial control over their businesses. changes in management, reduced sales of licensed products, poor execution, or financial difficulties with respect to any of our licensing partners could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. see item 1 " business our licensing segment. " 29 failure to maintain licensing partners could harm our business. although we believe that we could replace our existing licensing partners in most circumstances, if necessary, our inability to do so for any period of time could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. see item 1 " business our licensing segment. " risks relating to the industry in which we compete the downturn in the global economy may continue to affect consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. the industries in which we operate are cyclical. many economic factors outside of our control affect the level of consumer spending in the apparel, cosmetic, fragrance, accessory, jewelry, watch, and home product industries, including, among others: general business conditions; economic downturns; employment levels; downturns in the stock market; interest rates; the housing market; consumer debt levels; the availability of consumer credit; increases in fuel prices; taxation; and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, including our products, tend to decline during recessionary periods and at other times when disposable income is lower. a downturn or an uncertain outlook in the economies in which we, or our licensing partners, sell our products may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. see item 7 " management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations global economic developments " for further discussion. the domestic and international political situation also affects consumer confidence. the threat, outbreak, or escalation of terrorism, military conflicts, or other hostilities could lead to a decrease in consumer spending and may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we face intense competition worldwide in the markets in which we operate. we face intense competition from other domestic and foreign fashion-oriented apparel, footwear, accessory, and casual apparel producers, some of which may be significantly larger and more diversified and may have greater financial and marketing resources than us. we compete with these companies primarily on the basis of: anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; creating and maintaining favorable brand recognition, loyalty, and a reputation for quality; developing and maintaining innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors, and styles that appeal to consumers; appropriately sourcing raw materials at cost-effective prices; appropriately pricing products; 30 anticipating and maintaining proper inventory levels; providing strong and effective marketing support; retaining and recruiting key employees; creating an acceptable value proposition for retail customers; ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain and distribution efficiencies with manufacturers and retailers; obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at retail stores; maintaining and growing market share; and protecting our intellectual property. we also face increasing competition from companies selling apparel, accessories, home, and other of our product categories through the internet. although we sell our products through the internet, increased competition and promotional activity in the worldwide apparel, accessory, and home product industries from internet-based competitors could reduce our sales, prices, and margins and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. any increased competition, or our failure to adequately address any of these competitive factors, could result in reduced market share or sales, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. the success of our business depends on our ability to respond to constantly changing fashion and retail trends and consumer demands in a timely manner. the industries in which we operate have historically been subject to rapidly changing fashion trends and consumer preferences. our success depends in large part on our ability to originate and define fashion product and home product trends, as well as to anticipate, gauge, and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers worldwide whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change, influenced by fashion trends, current economic conditions, and weather conditions, among other factors. we cannot assure that we will be able to continue to develop appealing styles or successfully meet constantly changing consumer demands in the future. in addition, we cannot assure that any new products or brands that we introduce will be successfully received by consumers. any failure on our part to anticipate, identify, and respond effectively to changing consumer demands and fashion trends could adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of our products and leave us with a substantial amount of unsold inventory or missed opportunities. if that occurs, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess, slow-moving inventory, which may harm our business and impair the image of our brands. conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if manufacturers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages, which may result in unfilled orders, negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty, and result in lost revenues. any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. see item 1 " business sourcing, production and quality. " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. for a discussion of our exposure to market risk, see "market risk management" in item 7 included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors there are risks associated with an investment in our securities. the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risk factors could materially adversely affect our business, our prospects, our results of operations, our financial condition, our liquidity, the trading price of our securities, and/or the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently view as immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition in future periods or if circumstances change. risks related to our business the loss of the services of mr. ralph lauren, members of our executive management team, or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. mr. ralph lauren's leadership in the design, marketing, and operational areas of our business has been a critical element of our success since the inception of our company. mr. lauren is instrumental to, and closely identified with, our brand that bears his name. our ability to maintain our brand image and leverage the goodwill associated with mr. lauren's name may be damaged if we were to lose his services. we depend on the service and management experience of mr. lauren and other key executive officers, who have substantial experience and expertise in our industry and our business. the death or disability of mr. lauren or other extended or permanent loss of his services, or any negative market or industry perception with respect to him or arising from his loss, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our other executive officers and other members of senior management have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our growth and success. the loss of the services of any of the key members of senior management, including members of the office of the chairman, or one or more of our other key personnel, or the concurrent loss of several of these individuals or any negative public perception with respect to these individuals, could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we are not protected by a material amount of key-man or similar life insurance covering mr. lauren, our other executive officers, or other members of senior management. we have entered into employment agreements with mr. lauren and certain other executive officers, but competition for experienced executives in our industry is intense and the non-compete period with respect to mr. lauren and certain other executive officers could, in some circumstances in the event of their termination of employment with our company, end prior to the employment term set forth in their employment agreements. we may not fully realize the expected cost savings and/or operating efficiencies from our restructuring plans. we plan to continue to implement restructuring plans to support key strategic initiatives, such as our recently announced planned transition to a global brand-based operating structure, as discussed in item 1 " business recent developments. " these restructuring plans are designed to maintain long-term sustainable growth by enhancing our operating effectiveness and efficiency and reducing our operating costs. restructuring plans present significant potential risks that may impair our ability to achieve anticipated operating enhancements and/or cost reductions, or otherwise harm our business, including: higher than anticipated costs in implementing planned workforce reductions, particularly in highly regulated locations outside the u.s.; higher than anticipated lease termination and store closure costs (see " our business is subject to risks associated with leasing real estate and other assets under long-term, non-cancellable leases "); failure to meet operational targets or customer requirements due to the loss of employees or inadequate transfer of knowledge; failure to maintain adequate controls and procedures while executing our restructuring plans; diversion of management attention from ongoing business activities and/or a decrease in employee morale; and attrition beyond any planned reduction in workforce. if we are not successful in implementing and managing our restructuring plans, we may not be able to achieve targeted operating enhancements and/or cost reductions, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 21 we cannot assure the successful implementation of our growth strategy. as part of our growth strategy, we seek to extend our brands and merchandise categories, expand our geographic coverage, and increase direct management of our brands by opening more of our own stores, strategically acquiring or integrating into our existing operations select businesses previously held by our licensees, and enhancing our operations. implementation of our strategy involves the continued expansion of our business in north america, asia, europe, latin america, and other international areas. for example, as discussed in item 1 " business recent developments, " we completed the chaps menswear license acquisition in april 2013 and the australia and new zealand licensed operations acquisition in july 2013. we may have difficulty integrating acquired businesses into our operations, hiring and retaining qualified key employees, or otherwise successfully managing such expansion. furthermore, we may not be able to successfully integrate the business of any licensee that we acquire into our own business, we may incur additional costs, and we may fail to achieve any expected cost savings or synergies from such integration. implementation of our growth strategy involves the continuation and expansion of our retail distribution network on a global basis, including our e-commerce operations, which is subject to many factors beyond our control. we may not be able to procure, purchase, or lease desirable freestanding or department store locations, renew and maintain existing freestanding store leases and department store locations on acceptable terms, or secure suitable replacement locations. the lease negotiation, as well as the number and timing of new stores and shop-within-shop locations actually opened during any given period and their associated contribution to net income for the period, depends on a number of factors including, but not limited to: (i) the availability of suitable financing to us and our landlords; (ii) the timing of the delivery of the leased premises to us from our landlords in order to commence build-out construction activities; (iii) our ability and our landlords' ability to obtain all necessary governmental licenses and permits to construct and operate our stores on a timely basis; (iv) our ability to manage the construction and development costs of new stores; (v) the rectification of any unforeseen engineering or environmental problems with the leased premises; (vi) adverse weather conditions during the construction period; and (vii) the hiring and training of qualified operating personnel in the local market. in addition, the success of our e-commerce operations depends on our ability to maintain and upgrade our e-commerce platform to provide our customers with a seamless shopping experience. while we continue to explore new markets and are always evaluating new potential locations, any of the above factors could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. further, as we continue to expand and increase the global presence of our e-commerce business, sales from our brick and mortar stores and wholesale channels of distribution in areas where e-commerce sites are introduced may decline due to changes in consumer shopping habits and cannibalization. in europe, we lack the large wholesale distribution channels we have in the u.s., and we may have difficulty developing and maintaining successful distribution strategies and alliances in certain major european countries. in asia, our primary mode of distribution is via a network of shops located within leading department stores. as we operate a direct-to-consumer business in this region and face established competitors, who in some cases maintain licensing relationships with such department stores, we may have difficulty in successfully retaining this network and expanding into alternate distribution channels. in addition, certain of the international countries in which we operate, particularly in asia, have unique operational characteristics that vary from the u.s., including but not limited to employment and labor, transportation, logistics, acquiring store locations, and legal requirements, which may pose challenges to the execution and success of our related growth strategies. further, macroeconomic trends may not be favorable and could limit our ability to implement our growth strategies in select geographies where we have foreign operations, such as europe, asia, australia, new zealand, canada, and latin america. achievement of our growth strategy requires investment in new capabilities, distribution channels, and technologies worldwide. these investments may result in short-term costs without accompanying current revenues and, therefore, may be dilutive to our earnings in the short term. in addition, we may continue to incur costs in connection with repositioning our business in certain geographic areas, including in asia. although we believe that our strategy will lead to long-term growth in revenue and profitability, the anticipated benefits may not be fully realized. our ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political, and economic risks. our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to maintain our current level of operations in our existing international markets is subject to certain risks associated with operating in various international locations. these include, but are not limited to: the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, including trade, labor, and product safety trading restrictions; 22 compliance with u.s. and other country laws relating to foreign operations, including, but not limited to, the foreign corrupt practices act, which prohibits u.s. companies from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and the u.k. bribery act, which prohibits u.k. and related companies from any form of bribery; unexpected changes in laws, judicial processes, or regulatory requirements; adapting to local customs and culture; and new tariffs or other barriers in certain international markets. we are also subject to general political and economic risks in connection with our international operations, including: political instability and terrorist attacks; changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, including sanctions resulting from the current political situation in russia and ukraine; and general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets. we cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, or other similar restrictions will be imposed by the u.s., the european union, asia, or other countries upon the import or export of our products in the future, or what effect any of these actions would have, if any, on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. changes in regulatory, geopolitical, social, or economic policies and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our business in the future, or may require us to exit a particular market or significantly modify our current business practices. our business is exposed to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations. we generally purchase our products in u.s. dollars. however, we source most of our products overseas. as a result, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. changes in currency exchange rates may also impact consumers' willingness or ability to travel abroad and/or purchase our products while traveling, as well as affect the u.s. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated prices at which our international businesses sell products. in addition, the operating results of our international subsidiaries are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as their financial results are translated from the respective local currency into u.s. dollars during the financial statement consolidation process. foreign currencies that we are exposed to from a transactional and translational perspective primarily include the euro, the japanese yen, the south korean won, the australian dollar, the canadian dollar, the swiss franc, the british pound sterling, the chinese renminbi, and the hong kong dollar. our international expansion will increase our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. although we hedge certain exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates arising in the ordinary course of business, we cannot fully anticipate all of our currency exposures and therefore foreign currency fluctuations may have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. in addition, factors that could impact the effectiveness of our hedging activities include the volatility of currency markets, the accuracy of forecasted transactions, and the availability of hedging instruments. as such, our hedging activities may not completely mitigate the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations. see item 7 " management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk management ." a data security or privacy breach could damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers, expose us to litigation risk, and adversely affect our business. we are dependent on information technology systems and networks, including the internet, for a significant portion of our direct-to-consumer sales, including our e-commerce operations and retail business credit card transaction authorization and processing. we are also responsible for storing data relating to our customers and employees and rely on third parties for the operation of our e-commerce websites and for the various social media tools and websites we use as part of our marketing strategy. in our normal course of business, we often collect, retain, and transmit certain sensitive and confidential customer information, including credit card information, over public networks. there is significant concern by consumers, employees, and lawmakers alike over the security of personal information transmitted over the internet, consumer identity theft, and user privacy. despite the security measures we currently have in place, our facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other internet or email events. any perceived or actual electronic or physical security breach involving the misappropriation, loss, or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential or personally identifiable information, including penetration of our network security, whether by us or by a third party, could disrupt our business, severely damage our reputation and our relationships with 23 our customers, expose us to risks of litigation, fines and penalties, and liability, and result in deterioration in our employees' and customers' confidence in us, and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. since we do not control third-party service providers and cannot guarantee that no electronic or physical computer break-ins and security breaches will occur in the future, any perceived or actual unauthorized disclosure of personally identifiable information regarding our customers or website visitors could harm our reputation and credibility, reduce our e-commerce net sales, impair our ability to attract website visitors, and reduce our ability to attract and retain customers. as these threats develop and grow, we may find it necessary to make significant further investments to protect data and infrastructure. in addition, as the regulatory environment relating to information security and privacy is becoming increasingly demanding, we may also incur significant costs in complying with the various applicable state, federal, and foreign laws regarding protection of, and unauthorized disclosure of, personal information. risks and uncertainties associated with the implementation of information systems may negatively impact our business. we are continually improving and upgrading our computer systems and software. for example, we are in the process of implementing a global operating and financial reporting information technology system, sap, as part of a multi-year plan to integrate and upgrade our operational and financial systems and processes, which began during our fiscal year ended april 2, 2011. during fiscal 2015, we continued to migrate certain areas of our business to sap, including global merchandise procurement, customer order management, and record-to-report for our north american wholesale operations. we are also in the process of executing the migration of our european operations to sap, which will be completed in stages over the next several years. in addition to implementing sap, we are also in the process of building an in-house global e-commerce platform as part of our plan to further enhance our omni-channel capabilities. rollout of the new global e-commerce platform is expected to be completed by early 2018. implementation of new information systems, such as the global e-commerce platform and global operating and financial reporting system currently being implemented, involves risks and uncertainties. any disruptions, delays, or deficiencies in the design or implementation of such systems could result in increased costs, disruptions in the sourcing, sale, and shipment of our product, delays in the collection of cash from our customers, and/or adversely effect on our ability to timely report our financial results, all of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our business could suffer if our computer systems and websites are disrupted or cease to operate effectively. we are dependent on our computer systems to record and process transactions and manage and operate our business, including in designing, marketing, manufacturing, importing, tracking, and distributing our products, processing payments, and accounting for and reporting results. we also utilize an automated replenishment system to facilitate the processing of basic replenishment orders from our retail segment and our wholesale customers, the movement of goods through distribution channels, and the collection of information for planning and forecasting. in addition, we have e-commerce and other internet websites in north america, europe, and asia, including australia and new zealand, and have plans for additional e-commerce sites in asia and other parts of the world. given the complexity of our business and the significant number of transactions that we engage in on a daily basis, it is imperative that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our computer hardware and software systems. despite our preventative efforts, our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from, among other things, security breaches, computer viruses, malfunctions, or power outages. any material disruptions in our information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. the success of our business depends on our ability to retain the value of our brands, to continue to develop products that resonate with our existing customers and attract new customers, and to provide a seamless shopping experience to our customers. our success depends on the value of our brands and our ability to consistently anticipate and respond to customers' demands, preferences, and fashion trends in the design, pricing, and production of our products, including the preference for certain products to be manufactured in the u.s. any failure on our part to anticipate, identify, and respond effectively to these consumer demands, preferences, and trends could adversely affect acceptance of our products. the ralph lauren name is integral to our business and our business could be adversely affected if mr. lauren's public image or reputation were to be tarnished. merchandise missteps or unfavorable publicity, especially through social media which accelerates and increases the potential scope of negative publicity, could negatively impact the image of our brands with our customers and could result in diminished loyalty to our brands, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. the success of our business also depends on our ability to continue to develop and maintain a reliable omni-channel experience for our customers. our business has evolved from an in-store experience to a shopping experience through multiple technologies, including computers, mobile phones, tablets, and other devices, as our customers have become increasingly 24 technologically savvy. we strive to offer an omni-channel shopping experience to our customers and use social media to interact with our customers and enhance their shopping experience. if we are unable to develop and continuously improve our customer-facing technologies, we may not be able to provide a convenient and consistent experience to our customers regardless of the sales channel. this could negatively affect our ability to compete with other retailers and result in diminished loyalty to our brands, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our business is subject to risks associated with importing products and could suffer as a result of increases in the price of raw materials, freight, or labor; or a manufacturer's inability to produce our goods on time and to our specifications. we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and depend exclusively on independent third parties for the manufacture of our products. our products are manufactured to our specifications through arrangements with over 700 foreign manufacturers in various countries. in fiscal 2015, over 97% of our products (by dollar value) were produced outside the u.s., primarily in asia, europe, and latin america. risks inherent in importing our products include: changes in social, political, and economic conditions or terrorist acts that could result in the disruption of trade from the countries in which our manufacturers or suppliers are located; the imposition of additional regulations relating to imports or exports, and costs of complying with laws relating to the identification and reporting of the sources of minerals used in our products; the imposition of additional duties, taxes, and other charges on imports or exports; significant fluctuations in the cost of raw materials; increases in the cost of labor, fuel, travel, and transportation; disruptions of shipping and international trade caused by natural and man-made disasters; significant delays in the delivery of cargo due to security considerations; pandemic and epidemic diseases, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials, and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas; the imposition of anti-dumping or countervailing duty proceedings resulting in the potential assessment of special anti-dumping or countervailing duties; and the imposition of sanctions in the form of additional duties either by the u.s. or its trading partners to remedy perceived illegal actions by national governments. any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. in addition, the inability of a manufacturer to ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our strict quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items, which could result in cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries, or a substantial reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. prices of raw materials used to manufacture our products may also fluctuate, and increases in prices of such raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales. furthermore, the cost of labor at many of our third-party manufacturers has been increasing significantly and, as the middle class in developing countries such as china continues to grow, it is unlikely that such cost pressure will abate. the cost of transportation remains high as well, and it is likely that such cost will fluctuate significantly if oil prices remain volatile. we may not be able to offset such increases in raw materials, freight, or labor costs through pricing actions or other means. our business could suffer if we fail to comply with labor laws or if one of our manufacturers fails to use acceptable labor or environmental practices. we are subject to labor laws governing relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions, and citizenship requirements. compliance with these laws may lead to increased costs and operational complexity and may increase our exposure to governmental investigations or litigation. 25 in addition, we require our licensing partners and independent manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. while our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices and our employees periodically visit and monitor the operations of our independent manufacturers, we do not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. the violation of labor, environmental, or other laws by an independent manufacturer used by us or one of our licensing partners, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer's or licensing partner's labor or environmental practices from those generally accepted as ethical or appropriate in the u.s., could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. any of these events, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our business could be negatively impacted by any financial instability of our customers. we sell our wholesale merchandise primarily to major department stores across north america, europe, asia, australia, and latin america and extend credit based on an evaluation of each wholesale customer's financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. however, the financial difficulties of a wholesale customer could cause us to limit or eliminate our business with that customer. we may also assume more credit risk relating to that customer's receivables. during fiscal 2015 , sales to our largest wholesale customer, macy's, accounted for approximately 12% of total net revenues. further, sales to our three largest wholesale customers, including macy's, accounted for approximately 24% of total net revenues for fiscal 2015 , and constituted approximately 37% of our total gross trade accounts receivable outstanding as of march 28, 2015 . our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. see item 1 " business wholesale credit control. " uncertain economic conditions could have a negative impact on our major customers, suppliers, and lenders, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. the uncertain state of the global economy continues to impact businesses around the world. the current global political and economic environments have resulted in continued economic unpredictability in the u.s., europe, and asia. although we believe that our cash provided by operations and available borrowing capacity under our credit facilities and commercial paper borrowing program will provide us with sufficient liquidity through the current global economic uncertainty, the impact of economic conditions on our major customers, suppliers, and lenders and their ability to access global capital markets cannot be predicted. the inability of major manufacturers to ship our products could impair our ability to meet the delivery date requirements of our customers. deterioration in global financial markets could affect our ability to access sources of liquidity to provide for our future cash needs, increase the cost of any future financing, or cause our lenders to be unable to meet their funding commitments under our credit facilities. a disruption in the ability of our significant customers to access liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their businesses which could lead to a significant reduction in their future orders of our products and the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. our industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition and a highly promotional environment, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products, and changes in consumer spending patterns. these factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, which could cause our gross margin to decline if we are unable to appropriately manage inventory levels and/or otherwise offset price reductions with comparable reductions in our costs. if our sales prices decline and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, our profitability will decline. this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. in addition, changes in our customer, channel, and geographic sales mix could have a negative impact on our profitability. our trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected outside the u.s. we believe that our trademarks, intellectual property, and other proprietary rights are extremely important to our success and our competitive position. we devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and anti-counterfeiting activities worldwide. however, significant counterfeiting of our products continues, and in the course of our international expansion we have experienced conflicts with various third parties that have acquired or claimed ownership rights to some trademarks that include polo and/or a representation of a polo player astride a horse, or otherwise have contested our rights to our trademarks. we have in the past resolved certain of these conflicts through both legal action and negotiated settlements, none of which, we believe, has had a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition. we cannot guarantee that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent counterfeiting or a material adverse effect on our business or brands arising from imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and proprietary rights of others. also, there can 26 be no assurance that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of ours or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction or at all. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect trademarks or other proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the u.s. and, as a result, our intellectual property may be more vulnerable and difficult to protect in such countries. see item 1 " business trademarks, " and item 3 " legal proceedings. " fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may result in volatility of our operating results. we are subject to income taxes in many u.s. and certain foreign jurisdictions. we record tax expense based on our estimates of future payments, which include reserves for uncertain tax positions in multiple tax jurisdictions. at any one time, multiple tax years are subject to audit by various taxing authorities. the results of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may affect the ultimate settlement of these issues. in addition, the tax laws and regulations in the countries where we operate may change or there may be changes in interpretation and enforcement of existing tax laws, which could materially affect our income tax expense in our consolidated financial statements. as a result, we expect that throughout the year there could be ongoing variability in our quarterly tax rates as events occur and exposures are evaluated. in addition, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be materially impacted by changes in the mix and level of earnings by jurisdiction or by changes to existing accounting rules or regulations. we have significant undistributed earnings held by our subsidiaries outside the u.s. as of march 28, 2015 , we had $1.144 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, of which $1.109 billion were held by our subsidiaries domiciled outside the u.s. we currently intend to reinvest these funds in order to fund strategic initiatives, working capital requirements, and debt repayments (both third-party and intercompany) of such foreign subsidiaries. however, if our plans change and we choose to repatriate any funds to the u.s. in the future, we would be subject to applicable u.s. and foreign taxes. our company has an exclusive relationship with certain customers for some of our products. the loss or significant decline in business of these customers could negatively impact our business. we have exclusive relationships with certain customers for the distribution of some of our products. our arrangement with these companies makes us dependent on those companies' financial and operational health for the sale of such products. the loss of these relationships could have an adverse effect on our business. our business could suffer as a result of consolidations, liquidations, restructurings, and other ownership changes in the retail industry. several of our department store customers, including some under common ownership, account for a significant portion of our wholesale net sales. a substantial portion of sales of our licensed products by our domestic licensing partners are also made to our largest department store customers. during fiscal 2015 , sales to our largest wholesale customer, macy's, accounted for approximately 12% of total net revenues. further, sales to our three largest wholesale customers, including macy's, accounted for approximately 24% of total net revenues for fiscal 2015 , and constituted approximately 37% of our gross trade accounts receivable outstanding as of march 28, 2015 . there can be no assurance that consolidations, restructurings, reorganizations, or other ownership changes in the department store sector will not have a material adverse effect on our wholesale business. we typically do not enter into long-term agreements with our customers. instead, we enter into a number of purchase order commitments with our customers for each of our product lines every season. a decision by the controlling owner of a group of stores or any other significant customer, whether motivated by competitive conditions, financial difficulties, or otherwise, to decrease or eliminate the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing partners or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing partners or their new strategic and operational initiatives, including their continued focus on further development of their "private label" initiatives, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. certain legal proceedings, regulatory matters, and accounting changes could adversely impact our results of operations. we are involved in certain legal proceedings and regulatory matters and are subject from time to time to various claims involving alleged breach of contract claims, intellectual property and other related claims, escheatment and unclaimed property, credit card fraud, security breaches in certain of our retail store information systems, employment issues, consumer matters, and other litigation. certain of these lawsuits and claims, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, could result in material liability to our company or have a negative impact on our reputation or relations with our employees, customers, licensees, or other third parties. in addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, such proceedings could result in substantial costs and may require our company to devote substantial time and resources to defend itself. further, changes in governmental 27 regulations both in the u.s. and in other countries where we conduct business operations could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. see item 3 " legal proceedings " for further discussion of our company's legal matters. in addition, we are subject to changes in accounting rules and interpretations. the financial accounting standards board is currently in the process of amending a number of existing accounting standards governing a variety of areas. certain of these proposed standards, particularly the proposed standard governing accounting for leases, if and when effective, would likely have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. see note 4 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements for further discussion of proposed amendments to current accounting standards. our results of operations could be affected by natural events in the locations in which we or our customers or suppliers operate. we have operations, including retail, distribution, and warehousing operations, in locations subject to natural disasters, such as severe weather, geological events, and pandemic and epidemic diseases, that could disrupt our operations. in addition, our suppliers and customers also have operations in these locations and could experience similar disruptions. the occurrence of natural events may result in sudden disruptions in the business operations of the local economies affected, as well as of the regional and global economies. in addition, our business is affected by unseasonable weather conditions, such as extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures in the winter or unseasonably cold temperatures in the summer. such natural events, including unseasonable weather conditions, could result in decreased demand for our products and disruptions in our sales channels and manufacturing and distribution networks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our business could suffer if we need to replace manufacturers or distribution centers. we compete with other companies for the production capacity of our manufacturers. some of these competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have, and thus may have an advantage in securing production capacity. if we experience a significant increase in demand, or if an existing manufacturer of ours must be replaced, we may have to expand our third-party manufacturing capacity. we cannot guarantee that this additional capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us. see item 1 " business sourcing, production and quality. " we enter into a number of purchase order commitments each season specifying a time for delivery, method of payment, design and quality specifications, and other standard industry provisions, but do not have long-term contracts with any manufacturer. none of the manufacturers we use produce our products exclusively. in addition, we rely on a number of owned and independently-operated distribution facilities around the world to warehouse and ship products to our customers and perform other related logistic services. as such, our ability to meet the needs of our customers depends on the proper operation of these distribution centers. if any of our distribution centers were closed or were to become inoperable for any reason, we could experience a substantial loss of inventory, disruption of deliveries to our customers and our retail stores, increased costs, and longer lead times associated with the distribution of products during the period that would be required to reopen or replace the facility. these disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our business is subject to risks associated with leasing real estate and other assets under long-term, non-cancellable leases. we generally operate most of our retail stores under long-term, non-cancellable leasing arrangements. our leases typically require us to make minimum rental payments, and often contingent rental payments based upon sales. in addition, our leases generally require us to pay our proportionate share of the cost of insurance, taxes, maintenance, and utilities. we generally cannot cancel our leases at our option. if an existing store is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may be required to record an impairment charge and/or exit costs associated with the disposal of the store. in addition, we may remain obligated under the applicable lease for, among other things, payment of the base rent for the remaining lease term. such costs and obligations related to the early termination of our leases could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 28 the voting shares of our company's stock are concentrated in one majority stockholder. as of march 28, 2015 , mr. ralph lauren, or entities controlled by the lauren family, held approximately 81% of the voting power of the outstanding common stock of our company. mr. ralph lauren also serves as our chairman of the board and chief executive officer, mr. ralph lauren's son, david lauren, is a director on our board, and we employ other members of the lauren family. from time to time, we may have other business dealings with mr. ralph lauren, members of the lauren family, or entities affiliated with mr. ralph lauren or the lauren family. as a result of his stock ownership and position in our company, mr. ralph lauren has the ability to exercise significant control over our business, including, without limitation, (i) the election of our class b common stock directors, voting separately as a class and (ii) any action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation and the approval of mergers or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. the trading prices of our securities periodically may rise or fall based on the accuracy of predictions of our earnings or other financial performance, including our ability to return value to shareholders. our business planning process is designed to maximize our long-term strength, growth, and profitability, and not to achieve an earnings target in any particular fiscal quarter. we believe that this longer-term focus is in the best interests of our company and our stockholders. at the same time, however, we recognize that, from time to time, it may be helpful to provide investors with guidance as to our quarterly and annual forecast of net sales and earnings. while we generally expect to provide updates to our guidance when we report our results each fiscal quarter, we do not have any responsibility to update any of our forward-looking statements at such times or otherwise. if, or when, we announce actual results that differ from those that have been predicted by us, outside analysts, or others, the market price of our securities could be adversely affected. investors who rely on these predictions when making investment decisions with respect to our securities do so at their own risk. we take no responsibility for any losses suffered as a result of such changes in the prices of our securities. we periodically return value to shareholders through our common stock share repurchases and payment of quarterly cash dividends. investors may have an expectation that we will repurchase all shares available under our class a common stock repurchase program and/or that we will further increase our quarterly cash dividend. the market price of our securities could be adversely affected if our class a common stock share repurchase activity and/or cash dividend rate differs from investors' expectations. we rely on our licensing partners to preserve the value of our licenses. the risks associated with our own products also apply to our licensed products in addition to any number of possible risks specific to a licensing partner's business, including risks associated with a particular licensing partner's ability to: obtain capital; manage its labor relations; maintain relationships with its suppliers; manage its credit and bankruptcy risks effectively; and maintain relationships with its customers. although a number of our license agreements prohibit our licensing partners from entering into licensing arrangements with our competitors, our licensing partners generally are not precluded from offering, under other non-competitor brands, the types of products covered by their license agreements with us. a substantial portion of sales of our products by our domestic licensing partners are also made to our largest customers. while we have significant control over our licensing partners' products and advertising, we rely on our licensing partners for, among other things, operational and financial control over their businesses. changes in management, reduced sales of licensed products, poor execution, or financial difficulties with respect to any of our licensing partners could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. see item 1 " business our licensing segment. " failure to maintain licensing partners could harm our business. although we believe that we could replace our existing licensing partners in most circumstances, if necessary, our inability to do so for any period of time could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. see item 1 " business our licensing segment. " 29 risks relating to the industry in which we compete the downturn in the global economy may continue to affect consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. the industries in which we operate are cyclical. many economic factors outside of our control affect the level of consumer spending in the apparel, cosmetic, fragrance, accessory, jewelry, watch, and home product industries, including, among others: general business conditions; economic downturns; employment levels; downturns in the stock market; interest rates; foreign currency exchange rates; the housing market; consumer debt levels; the availability of consumer credit; increases in fuel prices; taxation; and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, including our products, tend to decline during recessionary periods and at other times when disposable income is lower. unfavorable economic conditions may also reduce consumers' willingness and ability to travel to major cities and vacation destinations in which our stores are located. a downturn or an uncertain outlook in the economies in which we, or our licensing partners, sell our products may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. see item 7 " management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations global economic developments " for further discussion. the domestic and international political situation also affects consumer confidence. the threat, outbreak, or escalation of terrorism, military conflicts, or other hostilities could lead to a decrease in consumer spending and may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we face intense competition worldwide in the markets in which we operate. we face intense competition from other domestic and foreign fashion-oriented apparel, footwear, accessory, and casual apparel producers, some of which may be significantly larger and more diversified and may have greater financial and marketing resources than us. we compete with these companies primarily on the basis of: anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; creating and maintaining favorable brand recognition, loyalty, and a reputation for quality; developing and maintaining innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors, and styles that appeal to consumers; appropriately sourcing raw materials at cost-effective prices; appropriately pricing products; anticipating and maintaining proper inventory levels; providing strong and effective marketing support; 30 recruiting and retaining key employees; creating an acceptable value proposition for retail customers; ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain and distribution efficiencies with manufacturers and retailers; obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at retail stores; maintaining and growing market share; and protecting our intellectual property. we also face increasing competition from companies selling apparel, accessories, home, and other of our product categories through the internet. although we sell our products through the internet, increased competition and promotional activity in the worldwide apparel, accessory, and home product industries from internet-based competitors could reduce our sales, prices, and margins and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. any increased competition, or our failure to adequately address any of these competitive factors, could result in reduced market share or sales, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. the success of our business depends on our ability to respond to constantly changing fashion and retail trends and consumer demands in a timely manner. the industries in which we operate have historically been subject to rapidly changing fashion trends and consumer preferences. our success depends in large part on our ability to originate and define fashion product and home product trends, as well as to anticipate, gauge, and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers worldwide whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change, influenced by fashion trends, current economic conditions, and weather conditions, among other factors. we cannot assure that we will be able to continue to develop appealing styles or successfully meet constantly changing consumer demands in the future. in addition, we cannot assure that any new products or brands that we introduce will be successfully received by consumers. any failure on our part to anticipate, identify, and respond effectively to changing consumer demands and fashion trends could adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of our products and leave us with a substantial amount of unsold inventory or missed opportunities. if that occurs, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess, slow-moving inventory, which may harm our business and impair the image of our brands. conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if manufacturers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages, which may result in unfilled orders, negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty, and result in lost revenues. any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. see item 1 " business sourcing, production and quality. " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. for a discussion of our exposure to market risk, see "market risk management" in item 7 included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors there are risks associated with an investment in our securities. the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risk factors could materially adversely affect our business, our prospects, our results of operations, our financial condition, our liquidity, the trading price of our securities, and/or the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently view as immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition in future periods or if circumstances change. recent changes in our executive and senior management team may be disruptive to, or cause uncertainty in, our business, results of operations, financial condition, and the market price of our common stock. effective on november 2, 2015, mr. ralph lauren was appointed executive chairman and chief creative officer, and mr. stefan larsson was appointed president and chief executive officer and became a member of our board of directors. in addition to these recent changes, certain members of our executive and senior management team have departed, and we plan to continue to implement other management changes in connection with our long-term growth strategy. these changes in our executive and senior management team may be disruptive to, or cause uncertainty in, our business. the departure of certain key executives and the failure to ensure a smooth transition and effective transfer of knowledge involving senior employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. any such disruption or uncertainty could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and the market price of our common stock. further, such disruption may hinder our ability to maintain an effective system of internal controls and compliance with the requirements under the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. the loss of the services of mr. ralph lauren, members of our executive management team, or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. mr. ralph lauren's leadership in the design and marketing areas of our business has been a critical element of our success since the inception of our company. mr. r. lauren is instrumental to, and closely identified with, our brand that bears his name. our ability to maintain our brand image and leverage the goodwill associated with mr. r. lauren's name may be damaged if we were to lose his services. the death or disability of mr. r. lauren or other extended or permanent loss of his services, or any negative market or industry perception with respect to him or arising from his loss, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we also depend on the service and management experience of other key executive officers, including mr. stefan larsson, our president and chief executive officer, and other members of senior management who have substantial experience and expertise in our industry and our business and have made significant contributions to our growth and success. the loss of the services of any of our key executive officers or other members of senior management, or one or more of our other key personnel, or the concurrent loss of several of these individuals or any negative public perception with respect to these individuals, could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we are not protected by a material amount of key-man or similar life insurance covering our executive officers, including mr. r. lauren, or other members of senior management. we have entered into employment agreements with certain of our executive officers, but competition for experienced executives in our industry is intense and the non-compete period with respect to certain of our executive officers could, in some circumstances in the event of their termination of employment with our company, end prior to the employment term set forth in their employment agreements. we may not fully realize the expected cost savings and/or operating efficiencies from our restructuring plans, which could include the potential sale, discontinuance, or consolidation of certain of our brands. we have implemented, and plan to continue to implement, restructuring plans to support key strategic initiatives, such as the global reorganization plan, as described in item 1 " business recent developments. " these restructuring plans are designed to maintain long-term sustainable growth by enhancing our operating effectiveness and efficiency, right-sizing and increasing the quality of our distribution channels, and reducing our operating costs. restructuring plans present significant potential risks that may impair our ability to achieve anticipated operating enhancements and/or cost reductions, or otherwise harm our business, including: higher than anticipated costs in implementing planned workforce reductions, particularly in highly regulated locations outside the u.s.; 20 higher than anticipated lease termination and store closure costs (see " our business is subject to risks associated with leasing real estate and other assets under long-term, non-cancellable leases "); failure to meet operational targets or customer requirements due to the loss of employees or inadequate transfer of knowledge; failure to maintain adequate controls and procedures while executing, and subsequent to completing, our restructuring plans; diversion of management attention from ongoing business activities and/or a decrease in employee morale; and attrition beyond any planned reduction in workforce. if we are not successful in implementing and managing our restructuring plans, we may not be able to achieve targeted operating enhancements and/or cost reductions, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we cannot assure the successful implementation of our growth strategy. as part of our historical growth strategy, we seek to extend our brands and merchandise categories, expand our geographic coverage, and increase direct management of our brands by opening more of our own stores and, from time to time, strategically acquiring or integrating into our existing operations select businesses previously held by our licensees, as well as to enhance our operations by creating a more demand-driven supply chain and right-sizing our cost structure. we may have difficulty integrating acquired businesses into our operations, hiring and retaining qualified key employees, or otherwise successfully managing such expansion. furthermore, we may not be able to successfully integrate the business of any licensee that we acquire into our own business, we may incur additional costs, and we may fail to achieve any expected cost savings or synergies from such integration. implementation of our growth strategy involves the continuation and expansion of our retail distribution network on a global basis, including our e-commerce operations, which is subject to many factors beyond our control. we may not be able to procure, purchase, or lease desirable freestanding or department store locations, renew and maintain existing freestanding store leases and department store locations on acceptable terms, or secure suitable replacement locations. the lease negotiation, as well as the number and timing of new stores and shop-within-shop locations actually opened during any given period and their associated contribution to net income for the period, depends on a number of factors including, but not limited to: (i) the availability of suitable financing to us and our landlords; (ii) the timing of the delivery of the leased premises to us from our landlords in order to commence build-out construction activities; (iii) our ability and our landlords' ability to obtain all necessary governmental licenses and permits to construct and operate our stores on a timely basis; (iv) our ability to manage the construction and development costs of new stores; (v) the rectification of any unforeseen engineering or environmental problems with the leased premises; (vi) adverse weather conditions during the construction period; and (vii) the hiring and training of qualified operating personnel in the local market. in addition, the success of our e-commerce operations depends on our ability to maintain and upgrade our e-commerce platform to provide our customers with a seamless shopping experience. while we continue to explore new markets and are always evaluating new potential locations, any of the above factors could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. further, as we continue to expand and increase the global presence of our e-commerce business, sales from our brick and mortar stores and wholesale channels of distribution in areas where e-commerce sites are introduced may decline due to changes in consumer shopping habits and cannibalization. in europe, we lack the large wholesale distribution channels we have in the u.s., and we may have difficulty developing and maintaining successful distribution strategies and alliances in certain major european countries. in asia, our primary mode of distribution is via a network of shops located within leading department stores. as we operate a direct-to-consumer business in this region and face established competitors, who in some cases maintain licensing relationships with such department stores, we may have difficulty in successfully retaining this network and expanding into alternate distribution channels. in addition, certain of the international countries in which we operate, particularly in asia, have unique operational characteristics that vary from the u.s., including but not limited to employment and labor, transportation, logistics, acquiring store locations, and legal requirements, which may pose challenges to the execution and success of our related growth strategies. further, macroeconomic trends may not be favorable and could limit our ability to implement our growth strategies in select geographies where we have foreign operations, such as europe, asia, australia, new zealand, canada, and latin america. 21 achievement of our growth strategy requires investment in new capabilities, distribution channels, and technologies worldwide. these investments may result in short-term costs without accompanying current revenues and, therefore, may be dilutive to our earnings in the short term. in addition, we may continue to incur costs in connection with repositioning our business in certain geographic areas, including in asia. although we believe that our strategy will lead to long-term growth in revenue and profitability, the anticipated benefits may not be fully realized. risks and uncertainties associated with the implementation of information systems may negatively impact our business. we are continually improving and upgrading our computer systems and software. for example, we are in the process of implementing a global operating and financial reporting information technology system, sap, as part of a multi-year plan to integrate and upgrade our operational and financial systems and processes, which began during our fiscal year ended april 2, 2011. we substantially completed the migration of our north america operations to sap during fiscal 2015, and we are currently in the process of executing the migration of our european operations to sap, which is expected to be completed during fiscal 2017. in addition to implementing sap, we also completed the migration of our north america operations to a new procure-to-pay platform during fiscal 2016, and we expect to execute the migration of our european operations to this new platform during fiscal 2017. we are also in the process of building an in-house global e-commerce platform as part of our plan to further enhance our omni-channel capabilities. rollout of the new global e-commerce platform is expected to be completed in 2018. implementation of new information systems, such as the global e-commerce platform and global operating and financial reporting system currently being implemented, involves risks and uncertainties. any disruptions, delays, or deficiencies in the design or implementation of such systems could result in increased costs, disruptions in the sourcing, sale, and shipment of our product, delays in the collection of cash from our customers, and/or adversely affect our ability to timely report our financial results, all of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. a data security or privacy breach could damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers, expose us to litigation risk, and adversely affect our business. we are dependent on information technology systems and networks, including the internet, for a significant portion of our direct-to-consumer sales, including our e-commerce operations and retail business credit card transaction authorization and processing. we are also responsible for storing data relating to our customers and employees and rely on third parties for the operation of our e-commerce websites and for the various social media tools and websites we use as part of our marketing strategy. in our normal course of business, we often collect, retain, and transmit certain sensitive and confidential customer information, including credit card information, over public networks. there is significant concern by consumers, employees, and lawmakers alike over the security of personal information transmitted over the internet, consumer identity theft, and user privacy. we have a longstanding information security risk program committed to regular risk management practices surrounding the protection of confidential data. this program includes various technical controls, including security monitoring, data leakage protection, network segmentation and access controls around the computer resources that house confidential or sensitive data. in response to recent security and risk trends, we continually evaluate the security environment surrounding the handling and control of our critical data, especially the private data we receive from our customers, employees and partners, and have instituted additional measures to help protect us from system intrusion or data breaches. additionally, we have purchased network security and cyber liability insurance in order to provide a level of financial protection, should a data breach occur. despite the security measures we currently have in place, our facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other internet or email events. any perceived or actual electronic or physical security breach involving the misappropriation, loss, or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential or personally identifiable information, including penetration of our network security, whether by us or by a third party, could disrupt our business, severely damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers or employees, expose us to risks of litigation, fines and penalties, and liability, and result in deterioration in our customers' and employees' confidence in us, and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. since we do not control third-party service providers and cannot guarantee that no electronic or physical computer break-ins and security breaches will occur in the future, any perceived or actual unauthorized disclosure of personally identifiable information regarding our customers or website visitors could harm our reputation and credibility, reduce our e-commerce net sales, impair our ability to attract website visitors, and reduce our ability to attract and retain customers. as these threats develop and grow, we may find it necessary to make significant further investments to protect data and infrastructure. in addition, as the regulatory environment relating to information security and privacy is becoming increasingly demanding, we may also incur significant costs in complying with the various applicable state, federal, and foreign laws regarding protection of, and unauthorized disclosure of, personal information. 22 our business could suffer if our computer systems and websites are disrupted or cease to operate effectively. we are dependent on our computer systems to record and process transactions and manage and operate our business, including in designing, marketing, manufacturing, importing, tracking, and distributing our products, processing payments, accounting for and reporting results, and managing our employees and employee benefit programs. we also utilize an automated replenishment system to facilitate the processing of basic replenishment orders from our retail segment and our wholesale customers, the movement of goods through distribution channels, and the collection of information for planning and forecasting. in addition, we have e-commerce and other internet websites in north america, europe, and asia, including australia and new zealand, and have plans for additional e-commerce sites in asia and other parts of the world. given the complexity of our business and the significant number of transactions that we engage in on a daily basis, it is imperative that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our computer hardware and software systems. despite our preventative efforts, our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from, among other things, security breaches, computer viruses, malfunctions, or power outages. any material disruptions in our information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our business is exposed to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations. we generally purchase our products in u.s. dollars. however, we source most of our products overseas. as a result, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. changes in currency exchange rates may also impact consumers' willingness or ability to travel abroad and/or purchase our products while traveling, as well as affect the u.s. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated prices at which our international businesses sell products. in addition, the operating results of our international subsidiaries are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as their financial results are translated from the respective local currency into u.s. dollars during the financial statement consolidation process. foreign currencies that we are exposed to from a transactional and translational perspective primarily include the euro, the japanese yen, the south korean won, the australian dollar, the canadian dollar, the swiss franc, the british pound sterling, the chinese renminbi, and the hong kong dollar. our international expansion will increase our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. although we hedge certain exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates arising in the ordinary course of business, we cannot fully anticipate all of our currency exposures and therefore foreign currency fluctuations may have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. in addition, factors that could impact the effectiveness of our hedging activities include the volatility of currency markets, the accuracy of forecasted transactions, and the availability of hedging instruments. as such, our hedging activities may not completely mitigate the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations. see item 7 " management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk management ." the success of our business depends on our ability to retain the value of our brands, to continue to develop products that resonate with our existing customers and attract new customers, and to provide a seamless shopping experience to our customers. our success depends on the value of our brands and our ability to consistently anticipate and respond to customers' demands, preferences, and fashion trends in the design, pricing, and production of our products, including the preference for certain products to be manufactured in the u.s. any failure on our part to anticipate, identify, and respond effectively to these consumer demands, preferences, and trends could adversely affect acceptance of our products. the ralph lauren name is integral to our business and our business could be adversely affected if mr. ralph lauren's public image or reputation were to be tarnished. merchandise missteps or unfavorable publicity, especially through social media which accelerates and increases the potential scope of negative publicity, could negatively impact the image of our brands with our customers and could result in diminished loyalty to our brands, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. the success of our business also depends on our ability to continue to develop and maintain a reliable omni-channel experience for our customers. our business has evolved from an in-store experience to a shopping experience through multiple technologies, including computers, mobile phones, tablets, and other devices, as our customers have become increasingly technologically savvy. if we are unable to develop and continuously improve our customer-facing technologies, we may not be able to provide a convenient and consistent experience to our customers regardless of the sales channel. this could negatively affect our ability to compete with other retailers and result in diminished loyalty to our brands, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 23 the success of our business depends on our ability to respond to constantly changing fashion and retail trends and consumer demands in a timely manner. the industries in which we operate have historically been subject to rapidly changing fashion trends and consumer preferences. our success depends in large part on our ability to originate and define fashion product and home product trends, as well as to anticipate, gauge, and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers worldwide whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change, influenced by fashion trends, current economic conditions, and weather conditions, among other factors. we cannot assure that we will be able to continue to develop appealing styles or successfully meet constantly changing consumer demands in the future. in addition, we cannot assure that any new products or brands that we introduce will be successfully received by consumers. any failure on our part to anticipate, identify, and respond effectively to changing consumer demands and fashion trends could adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of our products and leave us with a substantial amount of unsold inventory or missed opportunities. if that occurs, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess, slow-moving inventory, which may harm our business and impair the image of our brands. conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if manufacturers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages, which may result in unfilled orders, negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty, and result in lost revenues. any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. additionally, if our products do not meet applicable safety standards or our customers' expectations regarding safety, we could experience lost sales, incur increased costs, and/or be exposed to legal and reputational risk. events that give rise to actual, potential, or perceived product safety concerns could expose us to government enforcement action and/or private litigation. reputational damage caused by real or perceived product safety concerns could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. see item 1 " business sourcing, production and quality. " our ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political, and economic risks. our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to maintain our current level of operations in our existing international markets is subject to certain risks associated with operating in various international locations. these include, but are not limited to: the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, including trade, labor, and product safety trading restrictions; compliance with u.s. and other country laws relating to foreign operations, including, but not limited to, the foreign corrupt practices act, which prohibits u.s. companies from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and the u.k. bribery act, which prohibits u.k. and related companies from any form of bribery; unexpected changes in laws, judicial processes, or regulatory requirements; adapting to local customs and culture; and new tariffs or other barriers in certain international markets. we are also subject to general political and economic risks in connection with our international operations, including: political instability and terrorist attacks; changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets. we cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, or other similar restrictions will be imposed by the u.s., the european union, asia, or other countries upon the import or export of our products in the future, or what effect any of these actions would have, if any, on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. changes in regulatory, geopolitical, social, economic, or monetary policies and other factors, including those which may result from the outcome of the 2016 u.s. presidential election, if any, may have a material adverse effect on our business in the future, or may require us to exit a particular market or significantly modify our current business practices. 24 our business is subject to risks associated with importing products and could suffer as a result of increases in the price of raw materials, freight, or labor; or a manufacturer's inability to produce our goods on time and to our specifications. we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and depend exclusively on independent third parties for the manufacture of our products. our products are manufactured to our specifications through arrangements with over 600 foreign manufacturers in various countries. in fiscal 2016 , over 97% of our products (by dollar value) were produced outside of the u.s., primarily in asia, europe, and latin america. risks inherent in importing our products include: changes in social, political, and economic conditions, including those which may result from the outcome of the 2016 u.s. presidential election, or terrorist acts that could result in the disruption of trade from the countries in which our manufacturers or suppliers are located; the imposition of additional regulations relating to imports or exports, and costs of complying with laws relating to the identification and reporting of the sources of minerals used in our products; the imposition of additional duties, taxes, and other charges on imports or exports; significant fluctuations in the cost of raw materials and commodities; increases in the cost of labor, travel, and transportation; disruptions of shipping and international trade caused by natural and man-made disasters; significant delays in the delivery of cargo due to security considerations; pandemic and epidemic diseases, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials, and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas; the imposition of anti-dumping or countervailing duty proceedings resulting in the potential assessment of special anti-dumping or countervailing duties; and the imposition of sanctions in the form of additional duties either by the u.s. or its trading partners to remedy perceived illegal actions by national governments. any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. in addition, the inability of a manufacturer to ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our strict quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items, which could result in cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries, or a substantial reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. prices of raw materials used to manufacture our products may also fluctuate, and increases in prices of such raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales. furthermore, the cost of labor at many of our third-party manufacturers has been increasing significantly and, as the middle class in developing countries such as china continues to grow, it is unlikely that such cost pressure will abate. the cost of transportation remains significant as well, and it is likely that such cost will fluctuate significantly if oil prices remain volatile. we may not be able to offset such increases in raw materials, freight, or labor costs through pricing actions or other means. our business could suffer if we fail to comply with labor laws or if one of our manufacturers fails to use acceptable labor or environmental practices. we are subject to labor laws governing relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions, and citizenship requirements. compliance with these laws may lead to increased costs and operational complexity and may increase our exposure to governmental investigations or litigation. in addition, we require our licensing partners and independent manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. while our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices and our employees periodically visit and monitor the operations of our independent manufacturers, we do not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. the violation of labor, environmental, or other laws by an independent manufacturer used by us or one of our licensing partners, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer's or licensing partner's labor or environmental practices from those generally accepted as ethical or appropriate in the u.s., could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. any of these events, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 25 a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from a limited number of large wholesale customers. our business could suffer as a result of consolidations, liquidations, restructurings, other ownership changes in the retail industry, and/or any financial instability of our large wholesale customers. several of our department store customers, including some under common ownership, account for a significant portion of our wholesale net sales. a substantial portion of sales of our licensed products by our domestic licensing partners are also made to our largest department store customers. during fiscal 2016 , sales to our largest wholesale customer, macy's, accounted for approximately 11% of total net revenues. further, sales to our three largest wholesale customers, including macy's, accounted for approximately 24% of total net revenues for fiscal 2016 , and constituted approximately 36% of our total gross trade accounts receivable outstanding as of april 2, 2016 . we typically do not enter into long-term agreements with our customers. instead, we enter into a number of purchase order commitments with our customers for each of our product lines every season. a decision by the controlling owner of a group of stores or any other significant customer, whether motivated by competitive conditions, financial difficulties, or otherwise, to decrease or eliminate the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing partners or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing partners or their new strategic and operational initiatives, including their continued focus on further development of their "private label" initiatives, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. there can be no assurance that consolidations, restructurings, reorganizations, or other ownership changes in the department store sector will not have a material adverse effect on our wholesale business. additionally, as a result of the recent unfavorable economic conditions, certain of our large wholesale customers, particularly those located in the u.s., have been highly promotional and have aggressively marked down their merchandise, including our products. such promotional activity could negatively impact our brand image and/or lead to requests from those customers for increased markdown allowances at the end of the season, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we sell our wholesale merchandise primarily to major department stores across north america, europe, asia, australia, and latin america and extend credit based on an evaluation of each wholesale customer's financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. however, the financial difficulties of a wholesale customer could cause us to limit or eliminate our business with that customer. we may also assume more credit risk relating to that customer's receivables. our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. see item 1 - "business - wholesale credit control." volatile economic conditions could have a negative impact on our major customers, suppliers, and lenders, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. the heightened state of uncertainty surrounding the global economy continues to impact businesses around the world. the current global political and economic environments have resulted in continued economic unpredictability in the u.s., europe, and asia. although we believe that our cash provided by operations and available borrowing capacity under our credit facilities and commercial paper borrowing program will provide us with sufficient liquidity, the impact of economic conditions on our major customers, suppliers, and lenders and their ability to access global capital markets cannot be predicted. the inability of major manufacturers to ship our products could impair our ability to meet the delivery date requirements of our customers. deterioration in global financial markets could affect our ability to access sources of liquidity to provide for our future cash needs, increase the cost of any future financing, or cause our lenders to be unable to meet their funding commitments under our credit facilities. a disruption in the ability of our significant customers to access liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their businesses which could lead to a significant reduction in their future orders of our products and the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. the downturn in the global economy may continue to affect consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. the industries in which we operate are cyclical. many economic factors outside of our control affect the level of consumer spending in the apparel, cosmetic, fragrance, accessory, jewelry, watch, and home product industries, including, among others: general business conditions; economic downturns; employment levels; 26 downturns in the stock market; interest rates; foreign currency exchange rates; the housing market; consumer debt levels; the availability of consumer credit; commodity prices; taxation; and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, including our products, tend to decline during recessionary periods and at other times when disposable income is lower. unfavorable economic conditions may also reduce consumers' willingness and ability to travel to major cities and vacation destinations in which our stores are located. a downturn or an uncertain outlook in the economies in which we, or our licensing partners, sell our products may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. see item 7 " management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations current trends and outlook " for further discussion. the domestic and international political situation also affects consumer confidence. the threat, outbreak, or escalation of terrorism, military conflicts, or other hostilities could lead to a decrease in consumer spending and may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we face intense competition worldwide in the markets in which we operate. we face increasing competition from companies selling apparel, accessories, home, and other of our product categories through the internet. although we sell our products through the internet, increased competition and promotional activity in the worldwide apparel, accessory, and home product industries from internet-based competitors could reduce our sales, prices, and margins and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we also face intense competition from other domestic and foreign fashion-oriented apparel, footwear, accessory, and casual apparel producers, some of which may be significantly larger and more diversified and may have greater financial and marketing resources than us. we compete with these companies primarily on the basis of: anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; creating and maintaining favorable brand recognition, loyalty, and a reputation for quality; developing and maintaining innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors, and styles that appeal to consumers; appropriately sourcing raw materials at cost-effective prices; appropriately pricing products; anticipating and maintaining proper inventory levels; providing strong and effective marketing support; recruiting and retaining key employees; creating an acceptable value proposition for retail customers; ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain and distribution efficiencies with manufacturers and retailers; obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at retail stores; 27 maintaining and growing market share; and protecting our intellectual property. any increased competition, or our failure to adequately address any of these competitive factors, could result in reduced market share or sales, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. our industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition and a highly promotional environment, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products, and changes in consumer spending patterns. these factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, which could cause our gross margin to decline if we are unable to appropriately manage inventory levels and/or otherwise offset price reductions with comparable reductions in our costs. if our sales prices decline and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, our profitability will decline. this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. in addition, changes in our customer, channel, and geographic sales mix could have a negative impact on our profitability. our trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected outside the u.s. we believe that our trademarks, intellectual property, and other proprietary rights are extremely important to our success and our competitive position. we devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and anti-counterfeiting activities worldwide. however, significant counterfeiting and imitation of our products continues, and in the course of our international expansion we have experienced conflicts with various third parties that have acquired or claimed ownership rights to some trademarks that include polo and/or a representation of a polo player astride a horse, or otherwise have contested our rights to our trademarks. we have in the past resolved certain of these conflicts through both legal action and negotiated settlements, none of which, we believe, has had a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition. we cannot guarantee that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent counterfeiting or a material adverse effect on our business or brands arising from imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and proprietary rights of others. also, there can be no assurance that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of ours or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction or at all. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect trademarks or other proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the u.s. and, as a result, our intellectual property may be more vulnerable and difficult to protect in such countries. see item 1 " business trademarks, " and item 3 " legal proceedings. " fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may result in volatility of our operating results. we are subject to income taxes in many u.s. and certain foreign jurisdictions. we record tax expense based on our estimates of future payments, which include reserves for uncertain tax positions in multiple tax jurisdictions. at any one time, multiple tax years are subject to audit by various taxing authorities. the results of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may affect the ultimate settlement of these issues. in addition, the tax laws and regulations in the countries where we operate may change or there may be changes in interpretation and enforcement of existing tax laws, which could materially affect our income tax expense in our consolidated financial statements. as a result, we expect that throughout the year there could be ongoing variability in our quarterly tax rates as events occur and exposures are evaluated. in addition, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be materially impacted by changes in the mix and level of earnings by jurisdiction or by changes to existing accounting rules or regulations. we have significant undistributed earnings held by our subsidiaries outside the u.s. as of april 2, 2016 , we had $1.085 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, of which $1.066 billion were held by our subsidiaries domiciled outside the u.s. we currently intend to reinvest these funds in order to fund strategic initiatives, working capital requirements, and debt repayments (both third-party and intercompany) of such foreign subsidiaries. however, if our plans change and we choose to repatriate any funds to the u.s. in the future, we would be subject to applicable u.s. and foreign taxes. our company has an exclusive relationship with certain customers for some of our products. the loss or significant decline in business of these customers could negatively impact our business. we have exclusive relationships with certain customers for the distribution of some of our products. our arrangement with these companies makes us dependent on those companies' financial and operational health for the sale of such products. the loss of these relationships could have an adverse effect on our business. 28 certain legal proceedings, regulatory matters, and accounting changes could adversely impact our results of operations. we are involved in certain legal proceedings and regulatory matters and are subject from time to time to various claims involving alleged breach of contract claims, intellectual property and other related claims, escheatment and unclaimed property, credit card fraud, security breaches in certain of our retail store information systems, employment issues, consumer matters, and other litigation. certain of these lawsuits and claims, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, could result in material liability to our company or have a negative impact on our reputation or relations with our employees, customers, licensees, or other third parties. in addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, such proceedings could result in substantial costs and may require our company to devote substantial time and resources to defend itself. further, changes in governmental regulations both in the u.s. and in other countries where we conduct business operations could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. see item 3 " legal proceedings " for further discussion of our company's legal matters. in addition, we are subject to changes in accounting rules and interpretations issued by the financial accounting standards board and other regulatory agencies. if and when effective, such changes to accounting standards could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. see note 4 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements for further discussion of recent amendments to current accounting standards. our results of operations could be affected by natural events in the locations in which we or our customers or suppliers operate. we have operations, including retail, distribution, and warehousing operations, in locations subject to natural disasters, such as severe weather, geological events, and pandemic and epidemic diseases, that could disrupt our operations. in addition, our suppliers and customers also have operations in these locations and could experience similar disruptions. the occurrence of natural events may result in sudden disruptions in the business operations of the local economies affected, as well as of the regional and global economies. in addition, our business is affected by unseasonable weather conditions, such as extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures in the winter or unseasonably cold temperatures in the summer. such natural events, including unseasonable weather conditions, could result in decreased demand for our products and disruptions in our sales channels and manufacturing and distribution networks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our business could suffer if we need to replace manufacturers or distribution centers. we compete with other companies for the production capacity of our manufacturers. some of these competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have, and thus may have an advantage in securing production capacity. if we experience a significant increase in demand, or if an existing manufacturer of ours must be replaced, we may have to expand our third-party manufacturing capacity. we cannot guarantee that this additional capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us. see item 1 " business sourcing, production and quality. " we enter into a number of purchase order commitments each season specifying a time for delivery, method of payment, design and quality specifications, and other standard industry provisions, but do not have long-term contracts with any manufacturer. none of the manufacturers we use produce our products exclusively. in addition, we rely on a number of owned and independently-operated distribution facilities around the world to warehouse and ship products to our customers and perform other related logistic services. as such, our ability to meet the needs of our customers depends on the proper operation of these distribution centers. if any of our distribution centers were closed or were to become inoperable for any reason, we could experience a substantial loss of inventory, disruption of deliveries to our customers and our retail stores, increased costs, and longer lead times associated with the distribution of products during the period that would be required to reopen or replace the facility. these disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 29 our business is subject to risks associated with leasing real estate and other assets under long-term, non-cancellable leases. we generally operate most of our retail stores under long-term, non-cancellable leasing arrangements. our leases typically require us to make minimum rental payments, and often contingent rental payments based upon sales. in addition, our leases generally require us to pay our proportionate share of the cost of insurance, taxes, maintenance, and utilities. we generally cannot cancel our leases at our option. if an existing store is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may be required to record an impairment charge and/or exit costs associated with the disposal of the store. in addition, we may remain obligated under the applicable lease for, among other things, payment of the base rent for the remaining lease term. such costs and obligations related to the early termination of our leases could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. the voting shares of our company's stock are concentrated in one majority stockholder. as of april 2, 2016 , mr. ralph lauren, or entities controlled by the lauren family, held approximately 82% of the voting power of the outstanding common stock of our company. mr. r. lauren also serves as our executive chairman and chief creative officer, mr. r. lauren's son, mr. david lauren, is an executive officer of the company and a director on our board, and we employ other members of the lauren family. from time to time, we may have other business dealings with mr. r. lauren, members of the lauren family, or entities affiliated with mr. r. lauren or the lauren family. as a result of his stock ownership and position in our company, mr. r. lauren has the ability to exercise significant control over our business, including, without limitation, (i) the election of our class b common stock directors, voting separately as a class and (ii) any action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation and the approval of mergers or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. the trading prices of our securities periodically may rise or fall based on the accuracy of predictions of our earnings or other financial performance, including our ability to return value to shareholders. our business planning process is designed to maximize our long-term strength, growth, and profitability, and not to achieve an earnings target in any particular fiscal quarter. we believe that this longer-term focus is in the best interests of our company and our stockholders. at the same time, however, we recognize that, from time to time, it may be helpful to provide investors with guidance as to our quarterly and annual forecast of net sales and earnings. while we generally expect to provide updates to our guidance when we report our results each fiscal quarter, we do not have any responsibility to update any of our forward-looking statements at such times or otherwise. if, or when, we announce actual results that differ from those that have been predicted by us, outside analysts, or others, the market price of our securities could be adversely affected. investors who rely on these predictions when making investment decisions with respect to our securities do so at their own risk. we take no responsibility for any losses suffered as a result of such changes in the prices of our securities. we periodically return value to shareholders through our common stock share repurchases and payment of quarterly cash dividends. investors may have an expectation that we will repurchase all shares available under our class a common stock repurchase program and/or that we will further increase our quarterly cash dividend. the market price of our securities could be adversely affected if our class a common stock share repurchase activity and/or cash dividend rate differs from investors' expectations. we rely on our licensing partners to preserve the value of our licenses. failure to maintain licensing partners could harm our business. the risks associated with our own products also apply to our licensed products in addition to any number of possible risks specific to a licensing partner's business, including risks associated with a particular licensing partner's ability to: obtain capital; manage its labor relations; maintain relationships with its suppliers and customers; and manage its credit and bankruptcy risks effectively. although a number of our license agreements prohibit our licensing partners from entering into licensing arrangements with our competitors, our licensing partners generally are not precluded from offering, under other non-competitor brands, the types of products covered by their license agreements with us. a substantial portion of sales of our products by our domestic 30 licensing partners are also made to our largest customers. while we have significant control over our licensing partners' products and advertising, we rely on our licensing partners for, among other things, operational and financial control over their businesses. changes in management, reduced sales of licensed products, poor execution, or financial difficulties with respect to any of our licensing partners could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. although we believe that we could replace our existing licensing partners in most circumstances, if necessary, our inability to do so for any period of time could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. see item 1 " business our licensing segment. " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. for a discussion of our exposure to market risk, see "market risk management" in item 7 included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors there are risks associated with an investment in our securities. the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risk factors could materially adversely affect our business, our prospects, our results of operations, our financial condition, our liquidity, the trading price of our securities, and/or the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently view as immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition in future periods or if circumstances change. recent changes in our executive and senior management team, including the departure of mr. stefan larsson and the appointment of mr. patrice louvet, may be disruptive to, or cause uncertainty in, our business, results of operations, financial condition, and the market price of our common stock. consistent with our announcement on february 2, 2017, mr. stefan larsson departed as the company's president and ceo and as a member of our board of directors, effective as of may 1, 2017. subsequently, on may 17, 2017, we announced that mr. patrice louvet will be appointed as the company's new president and ceo and as a member of our board of directors, effective as of july 10, 2017 or such date as may be mutually agreed upon by the parties. our ability to continue to execute our long-term growth strategy, including our way forward plan initiatives, may be adversely affected or delayed by the uncertainty associated with the transition to a successor ceo. in addition to mr. larsson's departure, certain other members of our executive and senior management team have departed in recent years, and we plan to continue to implement other management and organizational changes in connection with our long-term growth strategy. these changes in our executive and senior management team may be disruptive to, or cause uncertainty in, our business and future strategic direction. the departure of certain key executives, including mr. larsson, and the failure to ensure a smooth transition and effective transfer of knowledge involving senior employees could hinder or delay our strategic planning and execution, as well as adversely affect our ability to attract and retain experienced and talented employees. any such disruption or uncertainty could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and the market price of our common stock. further, such disruption may hinder our ability to maintain an effective system of internal controls and compliance with the requirements under the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. the loss of the services of mr. ralph lauren, members of our executive management team, or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. mr. ralph lauren's leadership in the design and marketing areas of our business has been a critical element of our success since the inception of our company. mr. r. lauren is instrumental to, and closely identified with, our brand that bears his name. our ability to maintain our brand image and leverage the goodwill associated with mr. r. lauren's name may be damaged if we were to lose his services. the death or disability of mr. r. lauren or other extended or permanent loss of his services, or any negative market or industry perception with respect to him or arising from his loss, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we also depend on the service and management experience of other key executive officers and other members of senior management who have substantial experience and expertise in our industry and our business and have made significant contributions to our growth and success. the loss of the services of any of our key executive officers or other members of senior management, or one or more of our other key personnel, or the concurrent loss of several of these individuals or any negative public perception with respect to these individuals, could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we are not protected by a material amount of key-man or similar life insurance covering our executive officers, including mr. r. lauren, or other members of senior management. we have entered into employment agreements with certain of our executive officers, but competition for experienced executives in our industry is intense and the non-compete period with respect to certain of our executive officers could, in some circumstances in the event of their termination of employment with our company, end prior to the employment term set forth in their employment agreements. 21 we may not fully realize the expected cost savings and/or operating efficiencies from our restructuring plans. we have implemented, and plan to continue to implement, restructuring plans to support key strategic initiatives, such as the way forward plan, as described in item 1 " business recent developments. " these restructuring plans are designed to deliver long-term sustainable growth by enhancing our operating effectiveness and efficiency, rightsizing and increasing the quality of our distribution channels, and reducing our operating costs. restructuring plans present significant potential risks that may impair our ability to achieve anticipated operating enhancements and/or cost reductions, or otherwise harm our business, including: higher than anticipated costs in implementing planned workforce reductions, particularly in highly regulated locations outside the u.s.; higher than anticipated lease termination and store closure costs (see " our business is subject to risks associated with leasing real estate and other assets under long-term, non-cancellable leases "); failure to meet operational targets or customer requirements due to the loss of employees or inadequate transfer of knowledge; failure to maintain adequate controls and procedures while executing, and subsequent to completing, our restructuring plans; diversion of management attention and resources from ongoing business activities and/or a decrease in employee morale; attrition beyond any planned reduction in workforce; and damage to our reputation and brand image due to our restructuring-related activities, including the closure of certain of our stores. if we are not successful in implementing and managing our restructuring plans, we may not be able to achieve targeted operating enhancements, sales growth, and/or cost reductions, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our failure to achieve targeted operating enhancements, sales growth, and/or cost reductions could also result in the implementation of additional restructuring-related activities, which may be dilutive to our earnings in the short term. our business is subject to risks associated with leasing real estate and other assets under long-term, non-cancellable leases. we generally operate most of our retail stores under long-term, non-cancellable leasing arrangements. our leases typically require us to make minimum rental payments, and often contingent rental payments based upon sales. in addition, our leases generally require us to pay our proportionate share of the cost of insurance, taxes, maintenance, and utilities. we generally cannot cancel our leases at our option. if an existing store is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may be required to record an impairment charge and/or exit costs associated with the disposal of the store. in addition, we may remain obligated under the applicable lease for, among other things, payment of the base rent for the remaining lease term. such costs and obligations related to the early closure of our stores or termination of our leases, such as the recent closing of our polo store at 711 fifth avenue in new york city, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we cannot assure the successful implementation of our growth strategy. in connection with our way forward plan, we have developed a long-term growth strategy with the objective of delivering sustainable, profitable growth and long-term value creation for shareholders. we plan to refocus on our core brands and evolve our product, marketing, and shopping experience to increase desirability and relevance. we also intend to evolve our operating model by significantly improving quality of sales, reducing supply chain lead times, improving our sourcing, and executing a disciplined multi-channel distribution and expansion strategy. our growth strategy also includes the rightsizing of our cost structure and implementation of a return on investment-driven financial model, as well as continuing to strengthen our leadership team. our ability to successfully execute our growth strategy is subject to various risks and uncertainties, as described within this "risk factors" section of our form 10-k. although we believe that our growth strategy will lead to long-term growth in revenue and profitability, there can be no assurance regarding the timing of or extent to which we will realize the anticipated benefits, if at all. our failure to realize the anticipated benefits, which may be due to our inability to execute the various elements of our growth strategy, changes in consumer preferences, competition, economic conditions, and other risks described herein, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our failure could also result in the implementation of additional restructuring-related activities, which may be dilutive to our earnings in the short term. 22 achievement of our growth strategy may require investment in new capabilities, distribution channels, and technologies. these investments may result in short-term costs without accompanying current revenues and, therefore, may be dilutive to our earnings in the short term. in addition, we may also incur other costs associated with the execution of our growth strategy, including restructuring-related charges, which may also be dilutive to our earnings in the short term. there can be no assurance regarding the timing of or extent to which we will realize the anticipated benefits of these investments and other costs, if at all. see item 1 " business objectives and opportunities " for additional discussion regarding our growth strategy. we may not be successful in the expansion of our multi-channel distribution network. implementation of our growth strategy involves the continuation and expansion of our multi-channel distribution network on a global basis, including our e-commerce operations, which is subject to many factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to: identify new markets where our products and brand will be accepted by consumers; identify desirable freestanding and department store locations, the availability of which may be out of our control; negotiate acceptable lease terms, including desired tenant improvement allowances; efficiently build-out stores and shop-within-shop locations; source sufficient inventory levels to meet the needs of the new stores and shop-within-shops; hire, train, and retain competent store personnel; integrate new stores and shop-within-shops into our existing systems and operations; and maintain and upgrade our e-commerce platform to provide our customers with a seamless shopping experience (see " risks and uncertainties associated with the implementation of information systems may negatively impact our business "). any of these challenges could delay or otherwise prevent us from successfully executing our distribution expansion strategy. there can be no assurance that our new stores and shop-within-shops will be successful and profitable or if the capital costs associated with the build-out of such new locations will be recovered. in addition, as we continue to expand and increase the global presence of our e-commerce business, sales from our brick and mortar stores and wholesale channels of distribution in areas where e-commerce sites are introduced may decline due to changes in consumer shopping habits and cannibalization. our failure to adequately address any of these challenges could result in reduced market share or sales or increased costs, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our profitability may decline if we are unable to effectively manage inventory or as a result of increasing pressure on margins. we have implemented key strategic initiatives designed to optimize our inventory levels and improve the efficiency and responsiveness of our supply chain. although we have shortened lead times for the design, sourcing, and production of certain of our product lines, we expect to continue to place orders with our vendors for the majority of our products in advance of the related selling season. our failure to continue to shorten lead times or to correctly anticipate consumer preferences and demand could result in the build-up of excess inventory. if that occurs, we may be forced to rely on markdowns, promotional sales, destruction, or donations to dispose of excess, slow-moving inventory, which may negatively impact our overall profitability and/or impair the image of our brands. additionally, our industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition and a highly promotional retail environment, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products, and changes in consumer spending patterns. these factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, which could cause our gross margin to decline if we are unable to appropriately manage inventory levels and/or otherwise offset price reductions with comparable reductions in our costs. if our sales prices decline and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, our profitability will decline. this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. in addition, changes in our customer, channel, and geographic sales mix could have a negative impact on our profitability. 23 risks and uncertainties associated with the implementation of information systems may negatively impact our business. we are continually improving and upgrading our computer systems and software. for example, we recently completed the implementation a global operating and financial reporting information technology system, sap, as part of a multi-year plan to integrate and upgrade our operational and financial systems and processes. we substantially completed the migration of our north america operations to sap during fiscal 2015, and the migration of our europe operations to sap was completed during the first quarter of fiscal 2018. in addition to implementing sap, we also completed the migration of our north america and europe operations to a new procure-to-pay platform during fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2017, respectively. further, we have plans to transition our e-commerce operations to a third-party cloud-based platform during fiscal 2018. implementation of new information systems, such as the global operating and financial reporting system recently implemented, or the transition to a new e-commerce platform, involves risks and uncertainties. any disruptions, delays, or deficiencies in the design, implementation, or transition of such systems could result in increased costs, disruptions in the sourcing, sale, and shipment of our product, delays in the collection of cash from our customers, and/or adversely affect our ability to timely report our financial results, all of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. for additional discussion of risks related to our information systems, see " our business could suffer if our computer systems and websites are disrupted or cease to operate effectively ." a data security or privacy breach could damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers or employees, expose us to litigation risk, and adversely affect our business. we are dependent on information technology systems and networks, including the internet, for a significant portion of our direct-to-consumer sales, including our e-commerce operations and retail business credit card transaction authorization and processing. we are also responsible for storing data relating to our customers and employees and rely on third parties for the operation of our e-commerce websites and for the various social media tools and websites we use as part of our marketing strategy. in our normal course of business, we often collect, retain, and transmit certain sensitive and confidential customer information, including credit card information, over public networks. there is significant concern by consumers, employees, and lawmakers alike over the security of personal information transmitted over the internet, consumer identity theft, and user privacy. we have a longstanding information security risk program committed to regular risk management practices surrounding the protection of confidential data. this program includes various technical controls, including security monitoring, data leakage protection, network segmentation and access controls around the computer resources that house confidential or sensitive data. in response to recent security and risk trends, we continually evaluate the security environment surrounding the handling and control of our critical data, especially the private data we receive from our customers, employees and partners, and have instituted additional measures to help protect us from system intrusion or data breaches. additionally, we have purchased network security and cyber liability insurance in order to provide a level of financial protection, should a data breach occur. despite the security measures we currently have in place, our facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other internet or email events. the increased use of smartphones, tablets, and other devices may also heighten these and other operational risks. the retail industry in particular has been the target of many recent cyber-attacks, which are becoming increasingly more difficult to anticipate and prevent due to their rapidly evolving nature. any perceived or actual electronic or physical security breach involving the misappropriation, loss, or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential or personally identifiable information, including penetration of our network security, whether by us or by a third party, could disrupt our business, severely damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers or employees, expose us to risks of litigation, fines and penalties, and liability, and result in deterioration in our customers' and employees' confidence in us, and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. since we do not control third-party service providers and cannot guarantee that no electronic or physical computer break-ins and security breaches will occur in the future, any perceived or actual unauthorized disclosure of personally identifiable information regarding our customers or website visitors could harm our reputation and credibility, reduce our e-commerce net sales, impair our ability to attract website visitors, and reduce our ability to attract and retain customers. as these threats develop and grow, we may find it necessary to make significant further investments to protect data and our infrastructure, including the deployment of additional personnel and protection-related technologies, engagement of third-party consultants, and training of employees. in addition, as the regulatory environment relating to information security and privacy is becoming increasingly demanding, we may also incur significant costs in complying with the various applicable state, federal, and foreign laws regarding protection of, and unauthorized disclosure of, personal information. 24 our business could suffer if our computer systems and websites are disrupted or cease to operate effectively. we are dependent on our computer systems to record and process transactions and manage and operate our business, including in designing, marketing, manufacturing, importing, tracking, and distributing our products, processing payments, accounting for and reporting results, and managing our employees and employee benefit programs. we also utilize an automated replenishment system to facilitate the processing of basic replenishment orders from our retail business and our wholesale customers, the movement of goods through distribution channels, and the collection of information for planning and forecasting. in addition, we have e-commerce and other informational internet websites in north america, europe, and asia, including australia and new zealand, and have plans for additional e-commerce sites in other parts of the world. given the complexity of our business and the significant number of transactions that we engage in on a daily basis, it is imperative that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our computer hardware and software systems. despite our preventative efforts, our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from, among other things, security breaches, computer viruses, technical malfunctions, inadequate system capacity, power outages, and usage errors by our employees. any material disruptions in our information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our ability to conduct business globally may be affected by a variety of legal, regulatory, political, and economic risks. our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to maintain our current level of operations in our existing markets is subject to certain risks associated with operating in various locations around the globe. these include, but are not limited to: complying with a variety of u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, trade, labor, and product safety trading restrictions, as well as the foreign corrupt practices act, which prohibits u.s. companies from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and similar foreign country laws, such as the u.k. bribery act, which prohibits u.k. and related companies from any form of bribery; adapting to local customs and culture; unexpected changes in laws, judicial processes, or regulatory requirements; the imposition of additional duties, tariffs, taxes, and other charges or other barriers to trade; changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; political instability and terrorist attacks; and general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets. changes in regulatory, geopolitical, social, economic, or monetary policies and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our business in the future, or may require us to exit a particular market or significantly modify our current business practices. for example, the u.s. is considering a comprehensive tax reform, which could include a border-adjustment tax or other increased taxes on imports, a limit on the ability to defer u.s. taxation on foreign earnings until those earnings are repatriated to the u.s., and a lower u.s. federal tax rate. the organisation for economic co-operation and development, which represents a coalition of member countries, is also supporting changes to numerous long-standing tax principles through its base erosion and profit shifting project, which is focused on a number of issues, including the shifting of profits among affiliated entities located in different tax jurisdictions. in addition to these proposed tax reforms, the u.s. is also considering potential changes to its participation in, or the renegotiation of, certain international trade agreements, such as the north american free trade agreement. we cannot predict which, if any, of these proposals will be enacted into law or the resulting impact any such enactment will have on our consolidated financial statements. however, if new legislation were enacted, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. additionally, in june 2016, voters in the united kingdom approved an advisory referendum to withdraw from the european union, commonly referred to as "brexit." subsequently, in march 2017, the united kingdom's government invoked article 50 of the treaty on european union, which formally triggered the two-year negotiation process to exit the european union. negotiations to determine the united kingdom's future relationship with the european union, including terms of trade, will likely be complex and there can be no assurance regarding the terms or timing of any such arrangements. a withdrawal could significantly disrupt the free movement of goods, services, and people between the united kingdom and the european union, and result in increased legal and regulatory complexities, as well as potential higher costs of conducting business in europe. the united kingdom's decision to exit the european union could also result in similar referendums or votes in other european countries in which we do 25 business. the uncertainty surrounding the terms of the united kingdom's withdrawal and its consequences could adversely impact consumer and investor confidence, and the level of consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, including our products. any of these effects, among others, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. brexit has also caused significant volatility and uncertainty in global stock markets and currency exchange rates. such volatility could continue as the united kingdom negotiates its exit from the european union. for a discussion of risks related to currency exchange fluctuations, see " our business is exposed to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations. " our business is subject to risks associated with importing products and could suffer as a result of increases in the price of raw materials, freight, or labor; or a manufacturer's inability to produce our goods on time and to our specifications. we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and depend exclusively on independent third parties for the manufacture of our products. our products are manufactured to our specifications through arrangements with approximately 600 foreign manufacturers in various countries. in fiscal 2017 , over 97% of our products (by dollar value) were produced outside of the u.s., primarily in asia, europe, and latin america. risks inherent in importing our products include: changes in social, political, and economic conditions or terrorist acts that could result in the disruption of trade from the countries in which our manufacturers or suppliers are located; the imposition of additional regulations relating to imports or exports, and costs of complying with such regulations and other laws relating to the identification and reporting of the sources of minerals used in our products; the imposition of additional duties, taxes, and other charges on imports or exports, such as a potential u.s. border-adjustment tax; significant fluctuations in the cost of raw materials and commodities; increases in the cost of labor, travel, and transportation; disruptions of shipping and international trade caused by natural and man-made disasters, labor strikes, or other unforeseen events; heightened terrorism-related security concerns, which could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent, or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in the delivery of cargo; decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to lost sales, increased costs for our anti-counterfeiting measures, and damage to the reputation of our brands; pandemic and epidemic diseases, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials, and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas; the imposition of anti-dumping or countervailing duty proceedings resulting in the potential assessment of special anti-dumping or countervailing duties; and the imposition of sanctions in the form of additional duties either by the u.s. or its trading partners to remedy perceived illegal actions by national governments. any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. for a discussion of risks related to the potential imposition of additional regulations and laws, see " our ability to conduct business globally may be affected by a variety of legal, regulatory, political, and economic risks. " in addition, the inability of a manufacturer to ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our strict quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items, which could result in cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries, or a substantial reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. prices of raw materials used to manufacture our products may also fluctuate, and increases in prices of such raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales. furthermore, the cost of labor at many of our third-party manufacturers has been increasing significantly and, as the middle class in developing countries such as china continues to grow, it is unlikely that such cost pressure will abate. the cost of transportation remains significant as well, and it is likely that such cost will fluctuate significantly if oil prices remain volatile. we may not be able to offset such increases in raw materials, freight, or labor costs through pricing actions or other means. 26 fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may result in volatility of our operating results. we are subject to income taxes in many u.s. and certain foreign jurisdictions, with the applicable tax rates varying by jurisdiction. we record tax expense based on our estimates of future payments, which include reserves for uncertain tax positions in multiple tax jurisdictions. at any one time, multiple tax years are subject to audit by various taxing authorities. the results of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may affect the ultimate settlement of these issues. as a result, we expect that throughout the year there could be ongoing variability in our quarterly tax rates as events occur and exposures are evaluated. our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may also be materially impacted by changes in the mix and level of earnings by jurisdiction or by changes to existing accounting rules. for example, accounting standards update ("asu") no. 2016-09, "improvement to employee share-based payment accounting" ("asu 2016-09"), which is effective for our company beginning in our fiscal 2018, will likely result in increased volatility in the provision of income taxes. see note 4 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion of asu 2016-09. in addition, the tax laws and regulations in the countries where we operate may change or there may be changes in interpretation and enforcement of existing tax laws, which could materially affect our income tax expense in our consolidated financial statements. for a discussion of risks related to the potential imposition of additional regulations and laws, see " our ability to conduct business globally may be affected by a variety of legal, regulatory, political, and economic risks. " we have significant undistributed earnings held by our subsidiaries outside the u.s. as of april 1, 2017 , we had $1.353 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, of which $1.118 billion were held by our subsidiaries domiciled outside the u.s. we currently intend to reinvest these funds in order to fund strategic initiatives, working capital requirements, and debt repayments (both third-party and intercompany) of such foreign subsidiaries. however, if our plans change and we choose to repatriate any funds to the u.s. in the future, we would be subject to applicable u.s. and foreign taxes. our business is exposed to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations. we generally purchase our products in u.s. dollars. however, we source most of our products overseas. as a result, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. changes in currency exchange rates may also impact consumers' willingness or ability to travel abroad and/or purchase our products while traveling, as well as affect the u.s. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated prices at which our international businesses sell products. in addition, the operating results of our international subsidiaries are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as their financial results are translated from the respective local currency into u.s. dollars during the financial statement consolidation process. foreign currencies that we are exposed to from a transactional and translational perspective primarily include the euro, the japanese yen, the south korean won, the australian dollar, the canadian dollar, the swiss franc, the british pound sterling, the chinese renminbi, and the hong kong dollar. our international expansion will increase our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. although we hedge certain exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates arising in the ordinary course of business, we cannot fully anticipate all of our currency exposures and therefore foreign currency fluctuations may have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. in addition, factors that could impact the effectiveness of our hedging activities include the volatility of currency markets, the accuracy of forecasted transactions, and the availability of hedging instruments. as such, our hedging activities may not completely mitigate the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations. see item 7 " management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk management ." the success of our business depends on our ability to retain the value of our brands, to continue to develop products that resonate with our existing customers and attract new customers, and to provide a seamless shopping experience to our customers. our success depends on the value of our brands and our ability to consistently anticipate and respond to customers' demands, preferences, and fashion trends in the design, pricing, and production of our products, including the preference for certain products to be manufactured in the u.s. any failure on our part to anticipate, identify, and respond effectively to these consumer demands, preferences, and trends could adversely affect acceptance of our products. the ralph lauren name is integral to our business and our business could be adversely affected if mr. ralph lauren's public image or reputation were to be tarnished. merchandise missteps or unfavorable publicity, especially through social media which accelerates and increases the potential scope of negative publicity, could negatively impact the image of our brands with our customers and could result in diminished loyalty to our brands, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 27 the success of our business also depends on our ability to continue to develop and maintain a reliable omni-channel experience for our customers. our business has evolved from an in-store experience to a shopping experience through multiple technologies, including computers, smartphones, tablets, and other devices, as our customers have become increasingly technologically savvy. if we are unable to develop and continuously improve our customer-facing technologies, we may not be able to provide a convenient and consistent experience to our customers regardless of the sales channel. this could negatively affect our ability to compete with other retailers and result in diminished loyalty to our brands, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. the success of our business depends on our ability to respond to constantly changing fashion and retail trends and consumer demands in a timely manner. the industries in which we operate have historically been subject to rapidly changing fashion trends and consumer preferences. our success depends in large part on our ability to originate and define fashion product and home product trends, as well as to anticipate, gauge, and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers worldwide whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change, influenced by fashion trends, current economic conditions, and weather conditions, among other factors. this issue is further compounded by the increasing use of digital and social media by consumers and the speed by which information and opinions are shared across the globe. we cannot assure that we will be able to continue to develop appealing styles or successfully meet constantly changing consumer demands in the future. in addition, we cannot assure that any new products or brands that we introduce will be successfully received by consumers. any failure on our part to anticipate, identify, and respond effectively to changing consumer demands and fashion trends could adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of our products and leave us with a substantial amount of unsold inventory or missed opportunities. if that occurs, we may be forced to rely on less preferred distribution channels, markdowns, promotional sales, destruction, or donations to dispose of excess, slow-moving inventory, which may negatively impact our overall profitability and/or impair the image of our brands. conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if manufacturers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages, which may result in unfilled orders, negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty, and result in lost revenues. any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. additionally, if our products do not meet applicable safety standards or our customers' expectations regarding safety, we could experience lost sales, incur increased costs, and/or be exposed to legal and reputational risk. events that give rise to actual, potential, or perceived product safety concerns could expose us to government enforcement action and/or private litigation. reputational damage caused by real or perceived product safety concerns could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. see item 1 " business sourcing, production and quality. " we face intense competition worldwide in the markets in which we operate. we face increasing competition from companies selling apparel, accessories, home, and other of our product categories through the internet. although we sell our products through the internet, increased competition and promotional activity in the worldwide apparel, accessory, and home product industries from internet-based competitors could reduce our sales, prices, and margins and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we also face intense competition from other domestic and foreign fashion-oriented apparel, footwear, accessory, and casual apparel producers that sell products through brick and mortar stores and wholesale and licensing channels. we compete with these companies primarily on the basis of: anticipating and responding in a timely fashion to changing consumer demands and shopping preferences, including the increasing shift to digital brand engagement, social media communications, and online shopping; creating and maintaining favorable brand recognition, loyalty, and a reputation for quality; developing and producing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors, and styles that appeal to consumers; competitively pricing our products and creating an acceptable value proposition for consumers; providing strong and effective marketing support; obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at retail stores; sourcing raw materials at cost-effective prices; anticipating and maintaining proper inventory levels; 28 ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain and distribution efficiencies with manufacturers and retailers; recruiting and retaining key employees; maintaining and growing market share; and protecting our intellectual property. some of our competitors may be significantly larger and more diversified and may have greater financial and marketing resources, more desirable store locations, and/or greater e-commerce presence than us, among other competitive advantages. such competitive advantages may enable them to better withstand unfavorable economic conditions, compete more effectively on the basis of price and production, and/or more quickly respond to rapidly changing fashion trends and consumer demands than us. in addition, the retail industry's low barriers to entry allow for the introduction of new competitors and products at a rapid pace. any increased competition, or our failure to adequately address any of these competitive factors, could result in reduced market share or sales, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. a general economic downturn may affect consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. the industries in which we operate are cyclical. many economic factors outside of our control affect the level of consumer spending in the apparel, cosmetic, fragrance, accessory, jewelry, watch, and home product industries, including, among others: general business conditions; economic downturns; employment levels and wage rates; downturns in the stock market; interest rates; foreign currency exchange rates; the housing market; consumer debt levels; the availability of consumer credit; commodity prices, including fuel and energy costs; taxation; and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, including our products, tend to decline during recessionary periods and at other times when disposable income is lower. unfavorable economic conditions may also reduce consumers' willingness and ability to travel to major cities and vacation destinations in which our stores are located. further, consumers may prefer to spend more of their discretionary income on "experiences," such as dining and entertainment, over consumer goods, including our products. a downturn or an uncertain outlook in the economies in which we, or our wholesale and licensing partners, sell our products may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. see item 7 " management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations current trends and outlook " for further discussion. in addition, general domestic and international political conditions, such as the heightened level of uncertainty surrounding potential changes to u.s. policies related to global trade, taxation, immigration, and healthcare, may also affect consumer confidence. the threat, outbreak, or escalation of terrorism, military conflicts, or other hostilities could also lead to a decrease in consumer spending and may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 29 a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from a limited number of large wholesale customers. our business could suffer as a result of consolidations, liquidations, restructurings, other ownership changes in the retail industry, and/or any financial instability of our large wholesale customers. several of our department store customers, including some under common ownership, account for a significant portion of our wholesale net sales. a substantial portion of sales of our licensed products by our domestic licensing partners are also made to our largest department store customers. during fiscal 2017 , sales to our largest wholesale customer, macy's, accounted for approximately 10% of total net revenues. further, sales to our three largest wholesale customers, including macy's, accounted for approximately 21% of total net revenues for fiscal 2017 , and constituted approximately 34% of our total gross trade accounts receivable outstanding as of april 1, 2017 . substantially all sales to our three largest wholesale customers related to our north america segment. we typically do not enter into long-term agreements with our customers. instead, we enter into a number of purchase order commitments with our customers for each of our product lines every season. a decision by the controlling owner of a group of stores or any other significant customer, whether motivated by competitive conditions, financial difficulties, or otherwise, to decrease or eliminate the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing partners or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing partners or their new strategic and operational initiatives, including their continued focus on further development of their "private label" initiatives, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. in addition, as a result of unfavorable economic conditions, certain of our large wholesale customers, particularly those located in the u.s., have been highly promotional in recent years and have aggressively marked down their merchandise, including our products. such promotional activity could negatively impact our brand image and/or lead to requests from those customers for increased markdown allowances at the end of the season, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. the department store sector has also experienced numerous consolidations, restructurings, reorganizations, and other ownership changes in recent years, and we expect such changes will continue as a result of current economic conditions. such actions could result in a reduction in the number of stores that carry our products, and the stores that remain open may purchase fewer of our products and/or reduce the retail floor space designated to our brands. as a result, there can be no assurance that consolidations, restructurings, reorganizations, or other ownership changes in the department store sector will not have a material adverse effect on our wholesale business. additionally, in connection with our way forward plan, we have begun to strategically reduce shipments to certain of our wholesale customers. although we believe this strategic reduction of shipments will result in improved quality of sales for both our wholesale customers and us, there can be no assurance that the intended benefits will be realized. we sell our wholesale merchandise primarily to major department stores across north america, europe, asia, australia, and latin america, and extend credit based on an evaluation of each wholesale customer's financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. however, the financial difficulties of a wholesale customer could cause us to limit or eliminate our business with that customer. we may also assume more credit risk relating to that customer's receivables. our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. see item 1 " business wholesale credit control. " economic conditions could have a negative impact on our major customers, suppliers, and lenders, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. although we believe that our cash provided by operations and available borrowing capacity under our credit facilities and commercial paper borrowing program will provide us with sufficient liquidity, the impact of economic conditions on our major customers, suppliers, and lenders and their ability to access global capital markets cannot be predicted. the inability of major manufacturers to ship our products could impair our ability to meet the delivery date requirements of our customers. deterioration in global financial markets could affect our ability to access sources of liquidity to provide for our future cash needs, increase the cost of any future financing, or cause our lenders to be unable to meet their funding commitments under our credit facilities. a disruption in the ability of our significant customers to access liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their businesses which could lead to a significant reduction in their future orders of our products and the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 30 our business could suffer if we need to replace manufacturers or distribution centers. we compete with other companies for the production capacity of our manufacturers. some of these competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have, and thus may have an advantage in securing production capacity. if we experience a significant increase in demand, or if an existing manufacturer of ours must be replaced, we may have to expand our third-party manufacturing capacity. we cannot guarantee that this additional capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us. see item 1 " business sourcing, production and quality. " we enter into a number of purchase order commitments each season specifying a time for delivery, method of payment, design and quality specifications, and other standard industry provisions, but do not have long-term contracts with any manufacturer. none of the manufacturers we use produce our products exclusively. in addition, we rely on a number of owned and independently-operated distribution facilities around the world to warehouse and ship products to our customers and perform other related logistic services. our ability to meet the needs of our customers depends on the proper operation of these distribution centers. if any of our distribution centers were closed or were to become inoperable for any reason, we could experience a substantial loss of inventory, disruption of deliveries to our customers and our retail stores, increased costs, and longer lead times associated with the distribution of products during the period that would be required to reopen or replace the facility. these disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our results of operations could be affected by natural disasters and other catastrophic events in the locations in which we or our customers or suppliers operate. we have operations, including retail, distribution, and warehousing operations, in locations subject to natural disasters, such as severe weather, geological events, and epidemic diseases, and other catastrophic events, such as terrorist attacks and military conflict, any of which could disrupt our operations. in addition, our suppliers and customers also have operations in these locations and could experience similar disruptions. the occurrence of natural disasters or other catastrophic events may result in sudden disruptions in the business operations of the local economies affected, as well as of the regional and global economies. in addition, our business can be affected by unseasonable weather conditions, such as extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures in the winter or unseasonably cold temperatures in the summer. any of these events could result in decreased demand for our products and disruptions in our sales channels and manufacturing and distribution networks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected outside the u.s. we believe that our trademarks, intellectual property, and other proprietary rights are extremely important to our success and our competitive position. we devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and anti-counterfeiting activities worldwide. however, significant counterfeiting and imitation of our products continues to exist. in the course of our international expansion we have experienced conflicts with various third parties that have acquired or claimed ownership rights to some of our key trademarks that include polo and/or a representation of a polo player astride a horse, or otherwise have contested our rights to our trademarks. we have resolved certain of these conflicts through both legal action and negotiated settlements. we cannot guarantee that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent counterfeiting, lost business, or brand dilution, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business. we expect to continue to devote substantial resources to challenge brands arising from imitation of our products. also, there can be no assurance that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of ours or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction or at all. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect trademarks or other proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the u.s. and, as a result, our intellectual property may be more vulnerable and difficult to protect in such countries. see item 1 " business trademarks, " and item 3 " legal proceedings ." 31 our business could suffer if we fail to comply with labor laws or if one of our manufacturers fails to use acceptable labor or environmental practices. we are subject to labor laws governing relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions, and citizenship requirements. compliance with these laws may lead to increased costs and operational complexity and may increase our exposure to governmental investigations or litigation. in addition, we require our licensing partners and independent manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. while our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices and our employees periodically visit and monitor the operations of our independent manufacturers, we do not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. the violation of labor, environmental, or other laws by an independent manufacturer used by us or one of our licensing partners, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer's or licensing partner's labor or environmental practices from those generally accepted as ethical or appropriate in the u.s., could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. any of these events, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. certain legal proceedings, regulatory matters, and accounting changes could adversely impact our results of operations. we are involved in certain legal proceedings and regulatory matters and are subject from time to time to various claims involving alleged breach of contract claims, intellectual property and other related claims, escheatment and unclaimed property, credit card fraud, security breaches in certain of our retail store information systems, employment issues, consumer matters, and other litigation. certain of these lawsuits and claims, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, could result in material liability to our company or have a negative impact on our reputation or relations with our employees, customers, licensees, or other third parties. in addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, such proceedings could result in substantial costs and may require our company to devote substantial time and resources to defend itself. further, changes in governmental regulations both in the u.s. and in other countries where we conduct business operations could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. see item 3 " legal proceedings " for further discussion of our company's legal matters. in addition, we are subject to changes in accounting rules and interpretations issued by the financial accounting standards board and other regulatory agencies. if and when effective, such changes to accounting standards could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. see note 4 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion of recent amendments to current accounting standards. the trading prices of our securities periodically may rise or fall based on the accuracy of predictions of our earnings or other financial performance, including our ability to return value to shareholders. our business planning process is designed to maximize our long-term strength, growth, and profitability, and not to achieve an earnings target in any particular fiscal quarter. we believe that this longer-term focus is in the best interests of our company and our stockholders. at the same time, however, we recognize that, from time to time, it may be helpful to provide investors with guidance as to our quarterly and annual forecast of net sales and earnings. while we generally expect to provide updates to our guidance when we report our results each fiscal quarter, we do not have any responsibility to update any of our forward-looking statements at such times or otherwise. if, or when, we announce actual results that differ from those that have been predicted by us, outside analysts, or others, the market price of our securities could be adversely affected. investors who rely on these predictions when making investment decisions with respect to our securities do so at their own risk. we take no responsibility for any losses suffered as a result of such changes in the prices of our securities. in addition, we periodically return value to shareholders through our common stock share repurchases and payment of quarterly cash dividends. investors may have an expectation that we will repurchase all shares available under our class a common stock repurchase program, continue to pay quarterly cash dividends, and/or further increase our cash dividend rate. our ability to repurchase our class a common stock and pay quarterly cash dividends will depend on our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future. this ability may be subject to certain economic, financial, competitive, and other factors that are beyond our control, such as potential changes to taxation policies made by the u.s. or other countries. further, our board of directors may, at its discretion, elect to suspend or otherwise alter these programs at any time. the market price of our securities could be adversely affected if our class a common stock share repurchase activity and/or cash dividend payments differ from investors' expectations. 32 the voting shares of our company's stock are concentrated in one majority stockholder. as of april 1, 2017 , mr. ralph lauren, or entities controlled by the lauren family, held approximately 83% of the voting power of the outstanding common stock of our company. in addition, mr. r. lauren serves as our executive chairman and chief creative officer, mr. r. lauren's son, mr. david lauren, serves as our chief innovation officer and vice chairman of the board of directors, and we employ other members of the lauren family. from time to time, we may have other business dealings with mr. r. lauren, members of the lauren family, or entities affiliated with mr. r. lauren or the lauren family. as a result of his stock ownership and position in our company, mr. r. lauren has the ability to exercise significant control over our business, including, without limitation, (i) the election of our class b common stock directors, voting separately as a class and (ii) any action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation and the approval of mergers or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. our company has an exclusive relationship with certain customers for some of our products. the loss or significant decline in business of these customers could negatively impact our business. we have exclusive relationships with certain customers for the distribution of some of our products. our arrangement with these companies makes us dependent on those companies' financial and operational health for the sale of such products. the loss of these relationships could have an adverse effect on our business. we rely on our licensing partners to preserve the value of our licenses. failure to maintain licensing partners could harm our business. the risks associated with our own products also apply to our licensed products in addition to any number of possible risks specific to a licensing partner's business, including risks associated with a particular licensing partner's ability to: obtain capital; manage its labor relations; maintain relationships with its suppliers and customers; and manage its credit and bankruptcy risks effectively. although a number of our license agreements prohibit our licensing partners from entering into licensing arrangements with our competitors, our licensing partners generally are not precluded from offering, under other non-competitor brands, the types of products covered by their license agreements with us. a substantial portion of sales of our products by our domestic licensing partners are also made to our largest customers. while we have significant control over our licensing partners' products and advertising, we rely on our licensing partners for, among other things, operational and financial control over their businesses. changes in management, reduced sales of licensed products, poor execution, or financial difficulties with respect to any of our licensing partners could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. although we believe that we could replace our existing licensing partners in most circumstances, if necessary, our inability to do so for any period of time could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. see item 1 " business our licensing business. " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. for a discussion of our exposure to market risk, see "market risk management" in item 7 included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors there are risks associated with an investment in our securities. the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risk factors could materially adversely affect our business, our prospects, our results of operations, our financial condition, our liquidity, the trading price of our securities, and/or the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently view as immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition in future periods or if circumstances change. the loss of the services of mr. ralph lauren, members of our executive management team, or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. mr. ralph lauren's leadership in the design and marketing areas of our business has been a critical element of our success since the inception of our company. mr. r. lauren is instrumental to, and closely identified with, our brand that bears his name. our ability to maintain our brand image and leverage the goodwill associated with mr. r. lauren's name may be damaged if we were to lose his services. the death or disability of mr. r. lauren or other extended or permanent loss of his services, or any negative market or industry perception with respect to him or arising from his loss, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we also depend on the service and management experience of other key executive officers and other members of senior management who have substantial experience and expertise in our industry and our business and have made significant contributions to our growth and success. competition in our industry to attract and retain these employees is intense and is influenced by our reputation, our ability to offer competitive compensation and benefits, and economic conditions, among other factors. the loss of the services of any of our key executive officers or other members of senior management, or one or more of our other key personnel, or the concurrent loss of several of these individuals or any negative public perception with respect to these individuals, could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we are not protected by a material amount of key-man or similar life insurance covering our executive officers, including mr. r. lauren, or other members of senior management. we have entered into employment agreements with certain of our executive officers, but competition for experienced executives in our industry is intense and the non-compete period with respect to certain of our executive officers could, in some circumstances in the event of their termination of employment with our company, end prior to the employment term set forth in their employment agreements. recent changes in our executive and senior management team, including the departure of mr. stefan larsson and the appointment of mr. patrice louvet, may be disruptive to, or cause uncertainty in, our business. effective may 2017, mr. stefan larsson departed as the company's president and ceo and as a member of our board of directors. subsequent to mr. larsson's departure, mr. patrice louvet was appointed as the company's new president and ceo and as a member of our board of directors, effective july 2017. our ability to continue to execute our growth strategy may be adversely affected or delayed by the uncertainty associated with this transition. in addition to mr. larsson's departure, certain other members of our executive and senior management team have departed in recent years, and we may implement other management and organizational changes in connection with our growth strategy. any changes in our executive and senior management team may be disruptive to, or cause uncertainty in, our business and future strategic direction. the departure of certain key individuals and the failure to ensure a smooth transition and effective transfer of knowledge involving senior employees could hinder or delay our strategic planning and execution, as well as adversely affect our ability to attract and retain other experienced and talented employees. any such disruption or uncertainty could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. further, such disruption may hinder our ability to maintain an effective system of internal controls and compliance with the requirements under the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. we cannot assure the successful implementation of our growth strategy. we have developed a long-term growth strategy with the objective of delivering sustainable, profitable growth and long-term value creation for shareholders, as described in item 1 " business objectives and opportunities. " our ability to successfully execute our growth strategy is subject to various risks and uncertainties, as described within this "risk factors" section of our form 10-k. 21 although we believe that our growth strategy will lead to long-term growth in revenue and profitability, there can be no assurance regarding the timing of or extent to which we will realize the anticipated benefits, if at all. our failure to realize the anticipated benefits, which may be due to our inability to execute the various elements of our growth strategy, changes in consumer preferences, competition, economic conditions, and other risks described herein, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our failure could also result in the implementation of additional restructuring-related activities, which may be dilutive to our earnings in the short term. achievement of our growth strategy may require investment in new capabilities, distribution channels, and technologies. these investments may result in short-term costs without accompanying current revenues and, therefore, may be dilutive to our earnings in the short term. there can be no assurance regarding the timing of or extent to which we will realize the anticipated benefits of these investments and other costs, if at all. we may not fully realize the expected cost savings and/or operating efficiencies from our restructuring plans. we have implemented restructuring plans to support key strategic initiatives, such as the way forward plan, as described in item 1 " business recent developments. " although designed to deliver long-term sustainable growth, restructuring plans present significant potential risks that may impair our ability to achieve anticipated operating enhancements and/or cost reductions, or otherwise harm our business, including: higher than anticipated costs in implementing planned workforce reductions, particularly in highly regulated locations outside the u.s.; higher than anticipated lease termination and store closure costs (see " our business is subject to risks associated with leasing real estate and other assets under long-term, non-cancellable leases "); failure to meet operational targets or customer requirements due to the loss of employees or inadequate transfer of knowledge; failure to maintain adequate controls and procedures while executing, and subsequent to completing, our restructuring plans; diversion of management attention and resources from ongoing business activities and/or a decrease in employee morale; attrition beyond any planned reduction in workforce; and damage to our reputation and brand image due to our restructuring-related activities, including the closure of certain of our stores. if we are not successful in implementing and managing our restructuring plans, we may not be able to achieve targeted operating enhancements, sales growth, and/or cost reductions, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our failure to achieve targeted results could also lead to the implementation of additional restructuring-related activities, which may be dilutive to our earnings in the short term. we may not be successful in the expansion of our multi-channel distribution network. implementation of our growth strategy involves the continuation and expansion of our multi-channel distribution network, including within international markets such as china, which is subject to many factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to: identify new or underpenetrated markets where our products and brand will be accepted by consumers; attract customers, particularly in new markets; identify desirable freestanding and department store locations, the availability of which may be out of our control; negotiate acceptable lease terms, including desired tenant improvement allowances; efficiently and cost effectively build-out stores and shop-within-shop locations; source sufficient inventory levels to meet the needs of the new stores and shop-within-shops; 22 hire, train, and retain competent store personnel; and integrate new stores and shop-within-shops into our existing systems and operations. any of these challenges could delay or otherwise prevent us from successfully executing our distribution expansion strategy. there can be no assurance that our new stores and shop-within-shops will be successful and profitable or if the capital costs associated with the build-out of such new locations will be recovered. further, entry into new markets may bring us into competition with new or existing competitors that have a more established market presence than us or other competitive advantages. other risks related to our international expansion plans include general economic conditions in specific countries or markets, changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, political instability, and foreign government regulation, among other risks described herein. if our expansion plans are unsuccessful or do not deliver an appropriate return on our investments, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. the success of our business also depends on our ability to continue to maintain, enhance, and expand our digital footprint and capabilities. consumers are increasingly shopping online using computers, smartphones, tablets, and other devices. any failure on our part, or on the part of our third party digital partners, to provide attractive, reliable, secure, and user-friendly digital commerce platforms could negatively impact our customers' shopping experience resulting in reduced website traffic, diminished loyalty to our brands, and lost sales. in addition, as we continue to expand and increase the global presence of our digital commerce business, sales from our brick and mortar stores and wholesale channels of distribution in areas where digital commerce sites are introduced may decline due to changes in consumer shopping habits and cannibalization. the success of our business depends on our ability to respond to constantly changing fashion and retail trends and consumer demands in a timely manner, develop products that resonate with our existing customers and attract new customers, and provide a seamless shopping experience to our customers. the industries in which we operate have historically been subject to rapidly changing fashion trends and consumer preferences. our success depends in large part on our ability to originate and define fashion product and home product trends, as well as to anticipate, gauge, and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers worldwide whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change, influenced by fashion trends, current economic conditions, and weather conditions, among other factors. this issue is further compounded by the increasing use of digital and social media by consumers and the speed by which information and opinions are shared across the globe. we cannot assure that we will be able to continue to develop appealing styles or successfully meet constantly changing consumer demands in the future. in addition, we cannot assure that any new products or brands that we introduce will be successfully received by consumers. any failure on our part to anticipate, identify, and respond effectively to changing consumer demands and fashion trends could adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of our products and leave us with a substantial amount of unsold inventory or missed opportunities. conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if manufacturers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages. any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. for a discussion of risks related to our inventory management, see " our profitability may decline if we are unable to effectively manage inventory or as a result of increasing pressure on margins. " our marketing and advertising programs are integral to the success of our product offerings and on our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers. our communication campaigns are increasingly being executed through digital and social media platforms to drive further engagement with the younger consumer, with a focus on influencers. however, we cannot assure that our marketing and advertising programs will be successful or appeal to consumers. the success of our business also depends on our ability to continue to develop and maintain a reliable omni-channel experience for our customers. our business has evolved from an in-store experience to a shopping experience through multiple technologies, including computers, smartphones, tablets, and other devices, as our customers have become increasingly technologically savvy. we are increasingly using digital and social media platforms to interact with customers and as a means to enhance their shopping experience. if we are unable to develop and continuously improve our customer-facing technologies, we may not be able to provide a convenient and consistent experience to our customers regardless of the sales channel. this could negatively affect our ability to compete with other retailers and result in diminished loyalty to our brands, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we have also implemented, and expect to continue to implement, new store design concepts as part of our growth strategy. there can be no assurance that any of our new store designs will resonate with customers or otherwise achieve the desired sales and profitability measures necessary to recover our initial capital investments. if we are unable to successfully develop new store designs, or if customers are not receptive to the design layout or visual merchandising, our business, results of operations, and 23 financial condition could be adversely affected. in addition, the failure of new store designs to achieve acceptable results could lead to our decision to close a store prior to the lease expiration date. for additional discussion of risks related to the early termination of our leases, see " our business is subject to risks associated with leasing real estate and other assets under long-term, non-cancellable leases. " the success of our business depends on our ability to retain the value and reputation of our brands. our success depends on the value and reputation of our brands and our ability to consistently anticipate, identify, and respond to customers' demands, preferences, and fashion trends in the design, pricing, and production of our products, including the preference for certain products to be manufactured in the u.s. as the ralph lauren name is integral to our business, any negative publicity regarding mr. r. lauren or our company, especially through social media which accelerates and increases the potential scope of negative publicity, could negatively impact the image of our brands with our customers and result in diminished loyalty to our brands, even if the subject of such publicity is unverified or inaccurate. additionally, our failure to comply with ethical, social, product safety, labor, health, environmental or other standards and regulations could damage the reputation of our brands and lead to adverse consumer actions, as well as expose us to government enforcement action and/or private litigation. even if we react appropriately to negative publicity, our customers' perception of our brand image and our reputation could be negatively impacted. any failure on our part to retain the value and reputation of brands could adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we face intense competition worldwide in the markets in which we operate. we face increasing competition from companies selling apparel, accessories, home, and other of our product categories through the internet. although we sell our products through the internet, increased competition and promotional activity in the worldwide apparel, accessory, and home product industries from internet-based competitors could reduce our sales, prices, and margins and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we also face intense competition from other domestic and foreign fashion-oriented apparel, footwear, accessory, and casual apparel producers that sell products through brick and mortar stores and wholesale and licensing channels. we compete with these companies primarily on the basis of: anticipating and responding in a timely fashion to changing consumer demands and shopping preferences, including the increasing shift to digital brand engagement, social media communications, and online shopping; creating and maintaining favorable brand recognition, loyalty, and a reputation for quality; developing and producing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors, and styles that appeal to consumers of varying age groups; competitively pricing our products and creating an acceptable value proposition for consumers; providing strong and effective marketing support; obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at retail stores; attracting consumer traffic to both retail stores and websites; sourcing raw materials at cost-effective prices; anticipating and maintaining proper inventory levels; ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain and distribution efficiencies with third-party manufacturers and retailers; recruiting and retaining key employees; maintaining and growing market share; and protecting our intellectual property. some of our competitors may be significantly larger and more diversified and may have greater financial, marketing, and distribution resources, more desirable store locations, and/or greater digital commerce presence than us, among other competitive advantages. such competitive advantages may enable them to better withstand unfavorable economic conditions, compete more effectively on the basis of price and production, and/or more quickly respond to rapidly changing fashion trends and consumer 24 demands than us. in addition, technological advances and the retail industry's low barriers to entry allow for the introduction of new competitors and products at a rapid pace. any increased competition, or our failure to adequately address any of these competitive factors, could result in reduced market share or sales, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our profitability may decline if we are unable to effectively manage inventory or as a result of increasing pressure on margins. we have implemented key strategic initiatives designed to optimize our inventory levels and improve the efficiency and responsiveness of our supply chain. although we have shortened lead times for the design, sourcing, and production of certain of our product lines, we expect to continue to place orders with our vendors for the majority of our products in advance of the related selling season. as a result, we are vulnerable to changes in consumer preferences and demand and pricing shifts. our failure to continue to shorten lead times or to correctly anticipate consumer preferences and demand could result in the build-up of excess inventory. if that occurs, we may be forced to rely on less preferred distribution channels, markdowns, promotional sales, destruction, or donations to dispose of excess, slow-moving inventory, which may negatively impact our overall profitability and/or impair the image of our brands. conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if manufacturers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages, which may negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty, and result in lost sales. any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. additionally, our industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition and a highly promotional retail environment, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products, and changes in consumer spending patterns. although we have reduced our promotional activity in connection with our quality of sales initiatives, these factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, which could cause our gross margin to decline if we are unable to appropriately manage inventory levels and/or otherwise offset price reductions with comparable reductions in our costs. if our sales prices decline and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, our profitability will decline. this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. in addition, changes in our customer, channel, and geographic sales mix could have a negative impact on our profitability. our business is subject to risks associated with leasing real estate and other assets under long-term, non-cancellable leases. we generally operate most of our retail stores and corporate facilities under long-term, non-cancellable leasing arrangements. our retail store leases typically require us to make minimum rental payments, and often contingent rental payments based upon sales. in addition, our leases generally require us to pay our proportionate share of the cost of insurance, taxes, maintenance, and utilities. we generally cannot cancel our leases at our option. if we decide to close a store, or if we decide to downsize, consolidate, or relocate any of our corporate facilities, we may be required to record an impairment charge and/or exit costs associated with the disposal of the store or corporate facility. in addition, we may remain obligated under the applicable lease for, among other things, payment of the base rent for the remaining lease term, even after the space is exited. such costs and obligations related to the early closure of our stores or termination of our leases, such as the recent closing of our polo store at 711 fifth avenue in new york city, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. in addition, as each of our leases naturally expires, we may be unable to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could lead store closures resulting in lost sales. economic, political, and other conditions may adversely affect the level of consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, including our products. the industries in which we operate are cyclical. many economic and other factors outside of our control affect the level of consumer spending in the apparel, cosmetic, fragrance, accessory, jewelry, watch, and home product industries, including, among others: actual and perceived economic conditions; employment levels and wage rates; stock market performance; inflation; interest rates; 25 foreign currency exchange rates; the housing market; consumer debt levels; the availability of consumer credit; commodity prices, including fuel and energy costs; taxation; consumer confidence in future economic conditions; general domestic and international political conditions; the threat, outbreak, or escalation of terrorism, military conflicts, or other hostilities; and weather conditions. consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, including our products, tend to decline during recessionary periods and at other times when disposable income is lower. unfavorable economic conditions and other factors may also reduce consumers' willingness and ability to travel to major cities and vacation destinations in which our stores are located. further, consumers may prefer to spend more of their discretionary income on "experiences," such as dining and entertainment, over consumer goods. a downturn or an uncertain outlook in the economies in which we, or our wholesale and licensing partners, sell our products may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. see item 7 " management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations global economic conditions and industry trends " for further discussion. a data security or privacy breach could damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers or employees, expose us to litigation risk, and adversely affect our business. we are dependent on information technology systems and networks, including the internet, for a significant portion of our direct-to-consumer sales, including our digital commerce operations and retail business credit card transaction authorization and processing. we are also responsible for storing data relating to our customers and employees and rely on third parties for the operation of our digital commerce websites and for the various social media tools and websites we use as part of our marketing strategy. in our normal course of business, we often collect, retain, and transmit certain sensitive and confidential customer information, including credit card information, over public networks. there is significant concern by consumers, employees, and lawmakers alike over the security of personal information transmitted over the internet, consumer identity theft, and user privacy, as cyber-criminals are becoming increasingly more sophisticated in their attempts to gain unauthorized access to computer systems and confidential or sensitive data. we have a longstanding information security risk program committed to regular risk management practices surrounding the protection of confidential data. this program includes various technical controls, including security monitoring, data leakage protection, network segmentation and access controls around the computer resources that house confidential or sensitive data. we have also implemented employee awareness training programs around phishing, malware, and other cyber risks. we continually evaluate the security environment surrounding the handling and control of our critical data, especially the private data we receive from our customers, employees and partners, and have instituted additional measures to help protect us from system intrusion or data breaches. additionally, we have purchased network security and cyber liability insurance in order to provide a level of financial protection, should a data breach occur. despite the security measures we currently have in place, our facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, phishing attacks, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other internet or email events. the increased use of smartphones, tablets, and other devices may also heighten these and other operational risks. the retail industry in particular continues to be the target of many cyber-attacks, which are becoming increasingly more difficult to anticipate and prevent due to their rapidly evolving nature. the technology we use to protect our systems from being breached or compromised could become outdated as a result of advances in computer capabilities or other technological developments. additionally, measures we implement to protect our computer systems against cyber-attacks may make them harder to use or reduce the speed at which they operate, which in turn could negatively impact our customers' shopping experience resulting in reduced website traffic, diminished loyalty to our brands, and lost sales. 26 any perceived or actual electronic or physical security breach involving the misappropriation, loss, or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential or personally identifiable information, including penetration of our network security, whether by us or by a third party, could disrupt our business, severely damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers or employees, expose us to risks of litigation, significant fines and penalties, and liability, and result in deterioration in our customers' and employees' confidence in us, and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. since we do not control third-party service providers and cannot guarantee that no electronic or physical computer break-ins and security breaches will occur in the future, any perceived or actual unauthorized disclosure of personally identifiable information regarding our employees, customers or website visitors could harm our reputation and credibility, result in lost sales, impair our ability to attract website visitors, and/or reduce our ability to attract and retain employees and customers. as these threats develop and grow, we may find it necessary to make significant further investments to protect data and our infrastructure, including the implementation of new computer systems or upgrades to existing systems, deployment of additional personnel and protection-related technologies, engagement of third-party consultants, and training of employees. in addition, as the regulatory environment relating to information security and privacy is becoming increasingly more demanding, we may also incur significant costs in complying with the various applicable state, federal, and foreign laws regarding protection of, and unauthorized disclosure of, personal information. risks and uncertainties associated with the implementation of information systems may negatively impact our business. we are continually improving and upgrading our computer systems and software. for example, as part of a multi-year plan to integrate and upgrade our global systems and processes, we recently completed the migration of our european operations to sap, the operating and financial reporting information technology system used by our north america operations. we also transitioned our north america digital commerce operations to a third-party cloud-based platform during fiscal 2018, and we have plans to transition our other digital commerce operations during fiscal 2019 and beyond. implementation of new information systems, such as the global operating and financial reporting system recently implemented, or the transition to a new digital commerce platform, involves risks and uncertainties. any disruptions, delays, or deficiencies in the design, implementation, or transition of such systems could result in increased costs, disruptions in the sourcing, sale, and shipment of our product, delays in the collection of cash from our customers, and/or adversely affect our ability to accurately report our financial results in a timely manner, all of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. for additional discussion of risks related to our information systems, see " our business could suffer if our computer systems and websites are disrupted or cease to operate effectively ." our business could suffer if our computer systems and websites are disrupted or cease to operate effectively. we are dependent on our computer systems to record and process transactions and manage and operate our business, including in designing, marketing, manufacturing, importing, tracking, and distributing our products, processing payments, accounting for and reporting financial results, and managing our employees and employee benefit programs. we also utilize an automated replenishment system to facilitate the processing of basic replenishment orders from our retail business and our wholesale customers, the movement of goods through distribution channels, and the collection of information for planning and forecasting. in addition, we have digital commerce and other informational internet websites in north america, europe, and asia, including australia and new zealand, and have plans for additional digital commerce sites in the future. given the complexity of our business and the significant number of transactions that we engage in on a daily basis, it is imperative that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our computer hardware and software systems. despite our preventative efforts, our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from, among other things, security breaches, computer viruses, technical malfunctions, inadequate system capacity, power outages, natural disasters, and usage errors by our employees or third-party consultants. if our information technology systems become damaged or otherwise cease to function properly, we may have to make significant investments to repair or replace them. additionally, confidential or sensitive data related to our customers or employees could be lost or compromised. any material disruptions in our information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our ability to conduct business globally may be affected by a variety of legal, regulatory, political, and economic risks. our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to maintain our current level of operations in our existing markets is subject to certain risks associated with operating in various locations around the globe. these include, but are not limited to: complying with a variety of u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, trade, labor, and product safety trading restrictions, as well as the foreign corrupt practices act, which prohibits u.s. companies from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and similar 27 foreign country laws, such as the u.k. bribery act, which prohibits u.k. and related companies from any form of bribery; adapting to local customs and culture; unexpected changes in laws, judicial processes, or regulatory requirements; the imposition of additional duties, tariffs, taxes, and other charges or other barriers to trade; changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; political instability and terrorist attacks; and general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets. changes in regulatory, geopolitical, social, economic, or monetary policies and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our business in the future, or may require us to exit a particular market or significantly modify our current business practices. for example, there are growing concerns regarding trade relations between the u.s. and china, as both countries recently indicated their intention to impose significant tariffs on the importation of certain product categories. although the u.s. has not proposed new tariffs on apparel-related imports, it had indicated that it was considering expanding the product categories that would be subject to new tariffs. as approximately one-third of our products are sourced from china, the u.s.'s imposition of new tariffs on apparel or other goods imported from china could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales and profitability. although we are actively reviewing options to mitigate this risk, including diverting production to other countries, there can be no assurance that we will be able to offset any increased costs through pricing actions or other means. for a discussion of risks associated with the importation of products, see " our business is subject to risks associated with importing products and the ability of our manufacturers to produce our goods on time and to our specifications. " our business could also be impacted by changes to the tax laws and regulations in the countries where we operate. for example, the organisation for economic co-operation and development, which represents a coalition of member countries, is supporting changes to numerous long-standing tax principles through its base erosion and profit shifting project, which is focused on a number of issues, including the shifting of profits among affiliated entities located in different tax jurisdictions. taxing authorities of certain foreign jurisdictions may also decide to modify existing tax laws in response to the recently enacted u.s. tax legislation commonly referred to as the tcja, as described in item 1 " business recent developments. " we cannot predict which, if any, of these items will be enacted into law or the resulting impact any such enactment will have on our consolidated financial statements. however, if new legislation were enacted, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. for a discussion of risks related to the tcja, see " the impact to our business of recently enacted u.s. tax legislation could differ materially from our current estimates. " additionally, in june 2016, voters in the united kingdom approved an advisory referendum to withdraw from the european union, commonly referred to as "brexit." subsequently, in march 2017, the united kingdom's government invoked article 50 of the treaty on european union, which formally triggered the two-year negotiation process to exit the european union. negotiations to determine the united kingdom's future relationship with the european union, including terms of trade, are complex and there can be no assurance regarding the terms or timing of any such arrangements. a withdrawal could significantly disrupt the free movement of goods, services, and people between the united kingdom and the european union, and result in increased legal and regulatory complexities, as well as potential higher costs of conducting business in europe. the uncertainty surrounding the terms of the united kingdom's withdrawal and its consequences could adversely impact consumer and investor confidence, and the level of consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, including our products. any of these effects, among others, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. brexit has also contributed to significant volatility and uncertainty in global stock markets and currency exchange rates, and such volatility could continue to occur as the negotiation process progresses. for a discussion of risks related to currency exchange fluctuations, see " our business is exposed to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations. " our business is subject to risks associated with importing products and the ability of our manufacturers to produce our goods on time and to our specifications. we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and depend exclusively on independent third parties for the manufacture of our products. our products are manufactured to our specifications through arrangements with over 500 foreign manufacturers in various countries. in fiscal 2018 , over 97% of our products (by dollar value) were produced outside of the u.s., primarily in asia, europe, and latin america. risks inherent in importing our products include: 28 changes in social, political, and economic conditions or terrorist acts that could result in the disruption of trade from the countries in which our manufacturers or suppliers are located; the imposition of additional regulations, quotas, or safeguards relating to imports or exports, and costs of complying with such regulations and other laws relating to the identification and reporting of the sources of minerals used in our products; the imposition of additional duties, tariffs, taxes, and other charges on imports or exports; unfavorable changes in the availability, cost, or quality of raw materials and commodities; increases in the cost of labor, travel, and transportation; disruptions of shipping and international trade caused by natural and man-made disasters, labor strikes, or other unforeseen events; heightened terrorism-related security concerns, which could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent, or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in the delivery of cargo; decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to lost sales, increased costs for our anti-counterfeiting measures, and damage to the reputation of our brands; pandemic and epidemic diseases, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials, and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas; the imposition of anti-dumping or countervailing duty proceedings resulting in the potential assessment of special duties; and the imposition of sanctions in the form of additional duties either by the u.s. or its trading partners to remedy perceived illegal actions by national governments. any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. for a discussion of risks related to the potential imposition of additional regulations and laws, see " our ability to conduct business globally may be affected by a variety of legal, regulatory, political, and economic risks. " in addition, the inability of a manufacturer to ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our strict quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items, which could result in cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries, or a substantial reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. prices of raw materials used to manufacture our products may also fluctuate, and increases in prices of such raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales. furthermore, the cost of labor at many of our third-party manufacturers has been increasing significantly and, as the middle class in developing countries such as china continues to grow, it is unlikely that such cost pressure will abate. the cost of transportation remains significant as well, and it is likely that such cost will fluctuate significantly if oil prices remain volatile. we may not be able to offset such increases in raw materials, freight, or labor costs through pricing actions or other means. fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may result in volatility of our operating results. we are subject to income taxes in many u.s. and certain foreign jurisdictions, with the applicable tax rates varying by jurisdiction. we record tax expense based on our estimates of future payments, which include reserves for uncertain tax positions in multiple tax jurisdictions. at any one time, multiple tax years are subject to audit by various taxing authorities. the results of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may affect the ultimate settlement of these issues. as a result, we expect that throughout the year there could be ongoing variability in our quarterly tax rates as events occur and exposures are evaluated. our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may also be materially impacted by changes in the mix and level of earnings by jurisdiction or by changes to existing accounting rules. for example, accounting standards update ("asu") no. 2016-09, "improvements to employee share-based payment accounting" ("asu 2016-09"), which became effective for our company during the first quarter of fiscal 2018, has resulted in, and is expected to continue to result in, increased volatility in the provision of income taxes. see note 4 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion of asu 2016-09. in addition, the tax laws and regulations in the countries where we operate may change, such as the recently enacted u.s. tax legislation commonly referred to as the tcja, or there may be changes in interpretation and enforcement of existing tax laws, which could materially affect our income tax expense in our consolidated financial statements. for a discussion of risks related 29 to the potential imposition of additional regulations and laws, see " our ability to conduct business globally may be affected by a variety of legal, regulatory, political, and economic risks " and " the impact to our business of recently enacted u.s. tax legislation could differ materially from our current estimates. " the impact to our business of recently enacted u.s. tax legislation could differ materially from our current estimates. on december 22, 2017, president trump signed into law new tax legislation commonly referred to as the tcja, as described in item 1 " business recent developments. " the tcja is complex and widely considered to be the most significant overhaul to the u.s. federal tax code since 1986. although we expect the tcja will ultimately benefit our results of operations and financial condition in future periods, primarily due to it reducing the u.s. federal statutory income tax rate from 35% to 21%, its enactment resulted in the recognition of net charges of $221.4 million within our income tax provision during fiscal 2018. these charges were recorded on a provisional basis, as permitted by sab 118, based on our present interpretations of the tcja, current available information, and assumptions about future events. although we believe these provisional amounts represent a reasonable estimate of the ultimate enactment-related impact the tcja will have on our consolidated financial statements, the amounts could be adjusted materially as additional information becomes available and further analyses are completed. the impact of the tcja to our business in future periods is also subject to a variety of factors beyond our control including, but not limited to, (i) potential amendments to the tcja; (ii) potential changes to state, local, and foreign tax laws in response to the tcja; and (iii) potential new or interpretative guidance issued by the financial accounting standards board or the internal revenue service and other tax agencies. any of these factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from our current expectations and/or investors' expectations and there can be no assurance that the tcja will ultimately benefit our business, results of operations, and financial condition in future periods. our business is exposed to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations. our business is exposed to foreign currency exchange risk. specifically, changes in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and other currencies impact our financial results from a transactional perspective, as our foreign operations generally purchase inventory in u.s. dollars, as is common for most apparel companies. given that we source most of our products overseas, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. changes in currency exchange rates may also impact consumers' willingness or ability to travel abroad and/or purchase our products while traveling, as well as affect the u.s. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated prices at which our international businesses sell products. additionally, the operating results and financial position of our international subsidiaries are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as their financial results are translated from the respective local currency into u.s. dollars during the financial statement consolidation process. the foreign currencies to which we are exposed to from a transactional and translational perspective primarily include the euro, the japanese yen, the south korean won, the australian dollar, the canadian dollar, the british pound sterling, the swiss franc, the swedish krona, the chinese renminbi, the new taiwan dollar, and the hong kong dollar. the expansion of our international business increases our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. although we hedge certain exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates arising in the ordinary course of business, we cannot fully anticipate all of our currency exposures and therefore foreign currency fluctuations may have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. in addition, factors that could impact the effectiveness of our hedging activities include the volatility of currency markets, the accuracy of forecasted transactions, and the availability of hedging instruments. as such, our hedging activities may not completely mitigate the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations. see item 7 " management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk management ." a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from a limited number of large wholesale customers. our business could be adversely affected as a result of consolidations, liquidations, restructurings, other ownership changes in the retail industry, and/or any financial instability of our large wholesale customers. several of our department store customers, including some under common ownership, account for a significant portion of our wholesale net sales. a substantial portion of sales of our licensed products by our domestic licensing partners are also made to our largest department store customers. during fiscal 2018 , sales to our largest wholesale customer, macy's, accounted for approximately 8% of total net revenues. further, sales to our three largest wholesale customers, including macy's, accounted for approximately 19% of total net revenues for fiscal 2018, and constituted approximately 29% of our total gross trade accounts receivable outstanding as of march 31, 2018 . substantially all sales to our three largest wholesale customers related to our north america segment. 30 we typically do not enter into long-term agreements with our customers. instead, we enter into a number of purchase order commitments with our customers for each of our product lines every season. a decision by the controlling owner of a group of stores or any other significant customer, whether motivated by competitive conditions, financial difficulties, or otherwise, to decrease or eliminate the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing partners or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing partners or their new strategic and operational initiatives, including their continued focus on further development of their "private label" initiatives, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. in addition, as a result of unfavorable economic conditions, certain of our large wholesale customers, particularly those located in the u.s., have been highly promotional in recent years and have aggressively marked down their merchandise, including our products. such promotional activity could negatively impact our brand image and/or lead to requests from those customers for increased markdown allowances at the end of the season, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. in response and in connection with our growth plan, we began to strategically reduce shipments to certain of our customers during fiscal 2018. the department store sector has also experienced numerous consolidations, restructurings, reorganizations, and other ownership changes in recent years. any such actions in the future could result in a reduction in the number of stores that carry our products, and the stores that remain open may purchase fewer of our products and/or reduce the retail floor space designated to our brands. there can be no assurance that consolidations, restructurings, reorganizations, or other ownership changes in the department store sector will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we sell our wholesale merchandise primarily to major department stores across north america, europe, asia, australia, and latin america, and extend credit based on an evaluation of each wholesale customer's financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. however, the financial difficulties of a wholesale customer could cause us to limit or eliminate our business with that customer. we may also assume more credit risk relating to that customer's receivables. our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. see item 1 " business wholesale credit control. " economic conditions could have a negative impact on our major customers, suppliers, vendors, and lenders, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business. although we believe that our cash provided by operations and available borrowing capacity under our credit facilities and commercial paper borrowing program will provide us with sufficient liquidity, the impact of economic conditions on our major customers, suppliers, vendors, and lenders and their ability to access global capital markets cannot be predicted. the inability of major manufacturers to ship our products could impair our ability to meet the delivery date requirements of our customers. deterioration in global financial markets could affect our ability to access sources of liquidity to provide for our future cash needs, increase the cost of any future financing, or cause our lenders to be unable to meet their funding commitments under our credit facilities. a disruption in the ability of our significant customers to access liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their businesses which could lead to a significant reduction in their future orders of our products and the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our business could suffer if we need to replace manufacturers or distribution centers. we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and depend exclusively on independent third parties for the manufacture of our products. we compete with other companies for the production capacity of our manufacturers. some of these competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have, and thus may have an advantage in securing production capacity. if we experience a significant increase in demand, or if an existing manufacturer of ours must be replaced, we may have to expand our third-party manufacturing capacity. we cannot guarantee that this additional capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us. see item 1 " business sourcing, production and quality. " we enter into a number of purchase order commitments each season specifying a time for delivery, method of payment, design and quality specifications, and other standard industry provisions, but do not have long-term contracts with any manufacturer. none of the manufacturers we use produce our products exclusively. in addition, we rely on a number of owned and independently-operated distribution facilities around the world to warehouse and ship products to our customers and perform other related logistic services. our ability to meet the needs of our customers depends on the proper operation of these distribution centers. if any of our distribution centers were closed or were to become inoperable or inaccessible for any reason, we could experience a substantial loss of inventory, disruption of deliveries to our customers and our retail stores, increased costs, and longer lead times associated with the distribution of products during the period 31 that would be required to reopen or replace the facility. these disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our business could be adversely affected by natural disasters and other catastrophic events in the locations in which we or our customers or suppliers operate. we have operations, including retail, distribution, and warehousing operations, in locations subject to natural disasters, such as severe weather, geological events, and epidemic diseases, and other catastrophic events, such as terrorist attacks and military conflict, any of which could disrupt our operations. in addition, our customers and suppliers also have operations in these locations and could experience similar disruptions. the occurrence of natural disasters or other catastrophic events may result in sudden disruptions in the business operations of the local economies affected, as well as of the regional and global economies. in addition, our business can be affected by unseasonable weather conditions, such as extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures in the winter or unseasonably cold temperatures in the summer. any of these events could result in decreased demand for our products and disruptions in our sales channels and manufacturing and distribution networks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected outside the u.s. we believe that our trademarks, intellectual property, and other proprietary rights are extremely important to our success and our competitive position. we devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and anti-counterfeiting activities worldwide. however, significant counterfeiting and imitation of our products continues to exist. in the course of our international expansion we have experienced conflicts with various third parties that have acquired or claimed ownership rights to some of our key trademarks that include polo and/or a representation of a polo player astride a horse, or otherwise have contested our rights to our trademarks. we have resolved certain of these conflicts through both legal action and negotiated settlements. we cannot guarantee that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent counterfeiting, lost business, or brand dilution, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business. we expect to continue to devote substantial resources to challenge brands arising from imitation of our products. also, there can be no assurance that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of ours or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction or at all. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect trademarks or other proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the u.s. and, as a result, our intellectual property may be more vulnerable and difficult to protect in such countries. see item 1 " business trademarks, " and item 3 " legal proceedings ." our business could suffer if we fail to comply with labor laws or if one of our manufacturers fails to use acceptable labor or environmental practices. we are subject to labor laws governing relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions, and citizenship requirements. compliance with these laws may lead to increased costs and operational complexity and may increase our exposure to governmental investigations or litigation. in addition, we require our licensing partners and independent manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. while our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices and our employees periodically visit and monitor the operations of our independent manufacturers, we do not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. the violation of labor, environmental, or other laws by an independent manufacturer used by us or one of our licensing partners, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer's or licensing partner's labor or environmental practices from those generally accepted as ethical or appropriate in the u.s., could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. any of these events, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. certain legal proceedings, regulatory matters, and accounting changes could adversely affect our business. we are involved in certain legal proceedings and regulatory matters and are subject from time to time to various claims involving alleged breach of contract claims, intellectual property and other related claims, escheatment and unclaimed property, credit card fraud, security breaches in certain of our retail store information systems, employment issues, consumer matters, and other litigation. certain of these lawsuits and claims, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, could result in material liability to our company or have a negative impact on our reputation or relations with our employees, customers, licensees, or other third parties. in addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, such proceedings could result in substantial costs and may require our company to devote substantial time and resources to defend itself. further, changes in governmental regulations both in the u.s. and in other countries where we conduct business operations could have an adverse impact on our 32 business, results of operations, and financial condition. see item 3 " legal proceedings " for further discussion of our company's legal matters. in addition, we are subject to changes in accounting rules and interpretations issued by the financial accounting standards board and other regulatory agencies. if and when effective, such changes to accounting standards could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. see note 4 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a description of certain recently issued or proposed accounting standards. the trading prices of our securities periodically may rise or fall based on the accuracy of predictions of our earnings or other financial performance, including our ability to return value to shareholders. our business planning process is designed to maximize our long-term strength, growth, and profitability, and not to achieve an earnings target in any particular fiscal quarter. we believe that this longer-term focus is in the best interests of our company and our stockholders. at the same time, however, we recognize that, from time to time, it may be helpful to provide investors with guidance as to our quarterly and annual forecast of net sales and earnings. while we generally expect to provide updates to our guidance when we report our results each fiscal quarter, we do not have any responsibility to update any of our forward-looking statements at such times or otherwise. in addition, any longer-term guidance that we provide is based on goals that we believe, at the time guidance is given, are reasonably attainable. however, such long-range targets are more difficult to predict than our current quarter and full fiscal year expectations. if, or when, we announce actual results that differ from those that have been predicted by us, outside analysts, or others, the market price of our securities could be adversely affected. investors who rely on these predictions when making investment decisions with respect to our securities do so at their own risk. we take no responsibility for any losses suffered as a result of such changes in the prices of our securities. in addition, we periodically return value to shareholders through our payment of quarterly cash dividends and common stock share repurchases. investors may have an expectation that we will continue to pay quarterly cash dividends, further increase our cash dividend rate, and/or repurchase shares available under our class a common stock repurchase program. our ability to pay quarterly cash dividends and repurchase our class a common stock will depend on our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future. this ability may be subject to certain economic, financial, competitive, and other factors that are beyond our control. further, our board of directors may, at its discretion, elect to suspend or otherwise alter these programs at any time. the market price of our securities could be adversely affected if our cash dividend payments and/or class a common stock share repurchase activity differ from investors' expectations. the voting shares of our company's stock are concentrated in one majority stockholder. as of march 31, 2018 , mr. ralph lauren, or entities controlled by the lauren family, held approximately 82% of the voting power of the outstanding common stock of our company. in addition, mr. r. lauren serves as our executive chairman and chief creative officer, mr. r. lauren's son, mr. david lauren, serves as our chief innovation officer, strategic advisor to the ceo, and vice chairman of the board of directors, and we employ other members of the lauren family. from time to time, we may have other business dealings with mr. r. lauren, members of the lauren family, or entities affiliated with mr. r. lauren or the lauren family. as a result of his stock ownership and position in our company, mr. r. lauren has the ability to exercise significant control over our business, including, without limitation, (i) the election of our class b common stock directors, voting separately as a class and (ii) any action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation and the approval of mergers or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. we rely on our licensing partners to preserve the value of our licenses. failure to maintain licensing partners could harm our business. the risks associated with our own products also apply to our licensed products in addition to any number of possible risks specific to a licensing partner's business, including risks associated with a particular licensing partner's ability to: obtain capital; execute its business plans; manage its labor relations; maintain relationships with its suppliers and customers; and manage its credit and bankruptcy risks effectively. 33 although a number of our license agreements prohibit our licensing partners from entering into licensing arrangements with our competitors, our licensing partners generally are not precluded from offering, under other non-competitor brands, the types of products covered by their license agreements with us. a substantial portion of sales of our products by our domestic licensing partners are also made to our largest customers. while we have significant control over our licensing partners' products and advertising, we rely on our licensing partners for, among other things, operational and financial control over their businesses. changes in management, reduced sales of licensed products, poor execution, or financial difficulties with respect to any of our licensing partners could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. although we believe that we could replace our existing licensing partners in most circumstances, if necessary, our inability to do so for any period of time could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. see item 1 " business our licensing business. " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. for a discussion of our exposure to market risk, see "market risk management" in item 7 included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors there are risks associated with an investment in our securities. the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risk factors could materially adversely affect our business, our prospects, our results of operations, our financial condition, our liquidity, the trading price of our securities, and/or the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently view as immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition in future periods or if circumstances change. the loss of the services of mr. ralph lauren, members of our executive management team, or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. mr. ralph lauren's leadership in the design and marketing areas of our business has been a critical element of our success since the inception of our company. mr. r. lauren is instrumental to, and closely identified with, our brand that bears his name. our ability to maintain our brand image and leverage the goodwill associated with mr. r. lauren's name may be damaged if we were to lose his services. the death or disability of mr. r. lauren or other extended or permanent loss of his services, or any negative market or industry perception with respect to him or arising from his loss, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we also depend on the service and management experience of other key executive officers and other members of senior management who have substantial experience and expertise in our industry and our business and have made significant contributions to our growth and success. competition in our industry to attract and retain these employees is intense and is influenced by our reputation, our ability to offer competitive compensation and benefits, and economic conditions, among other factors. the loss of the services of any of our key executive officers or other members of senior management, or one or more of our other key personnel, or the concurrent loss of several of these individuals or any negative public perception with respect to these individuals, could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we are not protected by a material amount of key-man or similar life insurance covering our executive officers, including mr. r. lauren, or other members of senior management. we have entered into employment agreements with certain of our executive officers, but competition for experienced executives in our industry is intense and the non-compete period with respect to certain of our executive officers could, in some circumstances in the event of their termination of employment with our company, end prior to the employment term set forth in their employment agreements. we cannot assure the successful implementation of our growth strategy. we have developed a long-term growth strategy with the objective of delivering sustainable, profitable growth and long-term value creation for shareholders, as described in item 1 " business objectives and opportunities. " our ability to successfully execute our growth strategy is subject to various risks and uncertainties, as described within this "risk factors" section of our form 10-k. although we believe that our growth strategy will lead to long-term growth in revenue and profitability, there can be no assurance regarding the timing of or extent to which we will realize the anticipated benefits, if at all. our failure to realize the anticipated benefits, which may be due to our inability to execute the various elements of our growth strategy, changes in consumer preferences, competition, economic conditions, and other risks described herein, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. such a failure could also result in the implementation of additional restructuring-related activities, which may be dilutive to our earnings in the short term. achievement of our growth strategy may require investment in new capabilities, distribution channels, and technologies. these investments may result in short-term costs without accompanying current revenues and, therefore, may be dilutive to our earnings in the short term. there can be no assurance regarding the timing of or extent to which we will realize the anticipated benefits of these investments and other costs, if at all. 22 we may not be successful in the expansion of our multi-channel distribution network or accelerating growth in certain product categories. implementation of our growth strategy involves the continuation and expansion of our multi-channel distribution network, including within international markets such as china, which is subject to many factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to: identify new or underpenetrated markets where our products and brand will be accepted by consumers; attract customers, particularly in new markets; identify desirable freestanding and department store locations, the availability of which may be out of our control; negotiate acceptable lease terms, including desired tenant improvement allowances; efficiently and cost effectively build-out stores and shop-within-shops; source sufficient inventory levels to meet the needs of the new stores and shop-within-shops; hire, train, and retain competent store personnel; and integrate new stores and shop-within-shops into our existing systems and operations. any of these challenges could delay or otherwise prevent us from successfully executing our distribution expansion strategy. there can be no assurance that our new stores and shop-within-shops will be successful and profitable or if the capital costs associated with the build-out of such new locations will be recovered. further, entry into new markets may bring us into competition with new or existing competitors that have a more established market presence than us or other competitive advantages. other risks related to our international expansion plans include general economic conditions in specific countries or markets, changes in diplomatic and trade relationships and any resulting anti-american sentiment, political instability, and foreign government regulation, among other risks described herein. if our expansion plans are unsuccessful or do not deliver an appropriate return on our investments, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. the success of our business also depends on our ability to continue to maintain, enhance, and expand our digital footprint and capabilities. consumers are increasingly shopping online using computers, smartphones, tablets, and other devices. any failure on our part, or on the part of our third party digital partners, to provide attractive, reliable, secure, and user-friendly digital commerce platforms could negatively impact our customers' shopping experience resulting in reduced website traffic, diminished loyalty to our brands, and lost sales. in addition, as we continue to expand and increase the global presence of our digital commerce business, sales from our brick and mortar stores and wholesale channels of distribution in areas where digital commerce sites are introduced may decline due to changes in consumer shopping habits and cannibalization. our growth strategy also includes accelerating growth in certain high-value, underdeveloped product categories, comprised of denim, wear to work, outerwear, footwear, and accessories. we compete with other retailers in these product categories, some of which may be significantly larger than us and more established in these product categories, and competition is intense, as described within other risk factors herein. there can be no assurance that our targeted expansion in these product categories will be successful. the success of our business depends on our ability to respond to constantly changing fashion and retail trends and consumer demands in a timely manner, develop products that resonate with our existing customers and attract new customers, and provide a seamless shopping experience to our customers. the industries in which we operate have historically been subject to rapidly changing fashion trends and consumer preferences. our success depends in large part on our ability to originate and define fashion product and home product trends, as well as to anticipate, gauge, and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers worldwide whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change, influenced by fashion trends, current economic conditions, and weather conditions, among other factors. this issue is further compounded by the increasing use of digital and social media by consumers and the speed by which information and opinions are shared across the globe. we cannot assure that we will be able to continue to develop appealing styles or successfully meet constantly changing consumer demands in the future. in addition, we cannot assure that any new products or brands that we introduce will be successfully received by consumers. any failure on our part to anticipate, identify, and respond effectively to changing consumer demands and fashion trends could adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of our products and leave us with a substantial amount of unsold inventory or missed opportunities. conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if manufacturers 23 fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages. any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. for a discussion of risks related to our inventory management, see " our profitability may decline if we are unable to effectively manage inventory or as a result of increasing pressure on margins. " our marketing and advertising programs are integral to the success of our product offerings and on our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers. our communication campaigns are increasingly being executed through digital and social media platforms to drive further engagement with the younger consumer, with a focus on influencers. however, we cannot assure that our marketing and advertising programs will be successful or appeal to consumers. the success of our business also depends on our ability to continue to develop and maintain a reliable omni-channel experience for our customers. our business has evolved from an in-store experience to a shopping experience through multiple technologies, including computers, smartphones, tablets, and other devices, as our customers have become increasingly technologically savvy. we are increasingly using digital and social media platforms to interact with customers and as a means to enhance their shopping experience. if we are unable to develop and continuously improve our customer-facing technologies, we may not be able to provide a convenient and consistent experience to our customers regardless of the sales channel. this could negatively affect our ability to compete with other retailers and result in diminished loyalty to our brands, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we have also implemented, and expect to continue to implement, new store design concepts as part of our growth strategy. there can be no assurance that any of our new store designs will resonate with customers or otherwise achieve the desired sales and profitability measures necessary to recover our initial capital investments. if we are unable to successfully develop new store designs, or if customers are not receptive to the design layout or visual merchandising, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. in addition, the failure of new store designs to achieve acceptable results could lead to our decision to close a store prior to the lease expiration date. for additional discussion of risks related to the early termination of our leases, see " our business is subject to risks associated with leasing real estate and other assets under long-term, non-cancellable leases. " our profitability may decline if we are unable to effectively manage inventory or as a result of increasing pressure on margins. we have implemented key strategic initiatives designed to optimize our inventory levels and improve the efficiency and responsiveness of our supply chain. although we have shortened lead times for the design, sourcing, and production of certain of our product lines, we expect to continue to place orders with our vendors for the majority of our products in advance of the related selling season. as a result, we are vulnerable to changes in consumer preferences and demand and pricing shifts. our failure to continue to shorten lead times or to correctly anticipate consumer preferences and demand could result in the build-up of excess inventory. if that occurs, we may be forced to rely on less preferred distribution channels, markdowns, promotional sales, destruction, or donations to dispose of excess, slow-moving inventory, which may negatively impact our overall profitability and/or impair the image of our brands. conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if manufacturers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages, which may negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty, and result in lost sales. any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. additionally, our industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition and a highly promotional retail environment, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products, and changes in consumer spending patterns. although we have reduced our promotional activity in connection with our quality of sales initiatives, these factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, which could cause our gross margin to decline if we are unable to appropriately manage inventory levels and/or otherwise offset price reductions with comparable reductions in our costs. if our sales prices decline and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, our profitability will decline. this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. in addition, changes in our customer, channel, and geographic sales mix could have a negative impact on our profitability. 24 the success of our business depends on our ability to retain the value and reputation of our brands. our success depends on the value and reputation of our brands and our ability to consistently anticipate, identify, and respond to customers' demands, preferences, and fashion trends in the design, pricing, and production of our products, including the preference for certain products to be manufactured in the u.s. as the ralph lauren name is integral to our business, any negative publicity regarding mr. r. lauren or our company, especially through social media which accelerates and increases the potential scope of negative publicity, could negatively impact the image of our brands with our customers and result in diminished loyalty to our brands, even if the subject of such publicity is unverified or inaccurate. additionally, our failure to comply with ethical, social, product safety, labor, health, environmental or other standards and regulations could damage the reputation of our brands and lead to adverse consumer actions and/or investment decisions by investors, as well as expose us to government enforcement action and/or private litigation. even if we react appropriately to negative publicity, our customers' perception of our brand image and our reputation could be negatively impacted. any failure on our part to retain the value and reputation of brands could adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we face intense competition worldwide in the markets in which we operate. we face increasing competition from companies selling apparel, footwear, accessories, home, and other of our product categories through the internet. although we sell our products through the internet, increased competition and promotional activity in the worldwide apparel, footwear, accessory, and home product industries from internet-based competitors could reduce our sales, prices, and margins and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we also face intense competition from other domestic and foreign fashion-oriented apparel, footwear, accessory, and casual apparel producers that sell products through brick and mortar stores and wholesale and licensing channels. we compete with these companies primarily on the basis of: anticipating and responding in a timely fashion to changing consumer demands and shopping preferences, including the increasing shift to digital brand engagement, social media communications, and online shopping; creating and maintaining favorable brand recognition, loyalty, and a reputation for quality; developing and producing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors, and styles that appeal to consumers of varying age groups; competitively pricing our products and creating an acceptable value proposition for consumers; providing strong and effective marketing support; obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at stores and shop-within-shops; attracting consumer traffic to stores, shop-within-shops, and websites; sourcing raw materials at cost-effective prices; anticipating and maintaining proper inventory levels; ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain and distribution efficiencies with third-party manufacturers and retailers; maintaining and growing market share; recruiting and retaining key employees; and protecting our intellectual property. some of our competitors may be significantly larger and more diversified and may have greater financial, marketing, and distribution resources, more desirable store locations, and/or greater digital commerce presence than us, among other competitive advantages. such competitive advantages may enable them to better withstand unfavorable economic conditions, compete more effectively on the basis of price and production, and/or more quickly respond to rapidly changing fashion trends and consumer demands than us. in addition, technological advances and the retail industry's low barriers to entry allow for the introduction of new competitors and products at a rapid pace. any increased competition, or our failure to adequately address any of these competitive factors, could result in reduced market share or sales, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 25 economic, political, and other conditions may adversely affect the level of consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, including our products. the industries in which we operate are cyclical. many economic and other factors outside of our control affect the level of consumer spending in the apparel, footwear, accessory, and home product industries, including, among others: actual and perceived economic conditions; employment levels and wage rates; stock market performance; inflation; interest rates; foreign currency exchange rates; the housing market; consumer debt levels; the availability of consumer credit; commodity prices, including fuel and energy costs; taxation; consumer confidence in future economic conditions; general domestic and international political conditions; the threat, outbreak, or escalation of terrorism, military conflicts, or other hostilities; and weather conditions. consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, including our products, tend to decline during recessionary periods and at other times when disposable income is lower. unfavorable economic conditions and other factors may also reduce consumers' willingness and ability to travel to major cities and vacation destinations in which our stores and shop-within-shops are located. further, consumers may prefer to spend more of their discretionary income on "experiences," such as dining and entertainment, over consumer goods. a downturn or an uncertain outlook in the economies in which we, or our wholesale and licensing partners, sell our products may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. see item 7 " management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations global economic conditions and industry trends " for further discussion. we may not fully realize the expected cost savings and/or operating efficiencies from our restructuring plans. we have implemented restructuring plans to support key strategic initiatives, such as the fiscal 2019 restructuring plan, as described in item 1 " business recent developments. " although designed to deliver long-term sustainable growth, restructuring plans present significant potential risks that may impair our ability to achieve anticipated operating enhancements and/or cost reductions, or otherwise harm our business, including: higher than anticipated costs in implementing planned workforce reductions, particularly in highly regulated locations outside the u.s.; higher than anticipated lease termination and store closure costs (see " our business is subject to risks associated with leasing real estate and other assets under long-term, non-cancellable leases "); failure to meet operational targets or customer requirements due to the loss of employees or inadequate transfer of knowledge; failure to maintain adequate controls and procedures while executing, and subsequent to completing, our restructuring plans; 26 diversion of management attention and resources from ongoing business activities and/or a decrease in employee morale; attrition beyond any planned reduction in workforce; and damage to our reputation and brand image due to our restructuring-related activities, including the closure of certain of our stores. if we are not successful in implementing and managing our restructuring plans, we may not be able to achieve targeted operating enhancements, sales growth, and/or cost reductions, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our failure to achieve targeted results could also lead to the implementation of additional restructuring-related activities, which may be dilutive to our earnings in the short term. our business is subject to risks associated with leasing real estate and other assets under long-term, non-cancellable leases. we generally operate most of our stores and corporate facilities under long-term, non-cancellable leasing arrangements. our retail store leases typically require us to make minimum rental payments, and often contingent rental payments based upon sales. in addition, our leases generally require us to pay our proportionate share of the cost of insurance, taxes, maintenance, and utilities. we generally cannot cancel our leases at our option. if we decide to close a store, or if we decide to downsize, consolidate, or relocate any of our corporate facilities, we may be required to record an impairment charge and/or exit costs associated with the disposal of the store or corporate facility. in addition, we may remain obligated under the applicable lease for, among other things, payment of the base rent for the remaining lease term, even after the space is exited. such costs and obligations related to the early closure of our stores or termination of our leases could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. in addition, as each of our leases naturally expires, we may be unable to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could lead to store closures resulting in lost sales. recent changes in our executive and senior management team may be disruptive to, or cause uncertainty in, our business. certain members of our executive and senior management team have departed in recent years, and we may implement other management and organizational changes in connection with our growth strategy. any changes in our executive and senior management team may be disruptive to, or cause uncertainty in, our business and future strategic direction. the departure of certain key individuals and the failure to ensure a smooth transition and effective transfer of knowledge involving senior employees could hinder or delay our strategic planning and execution, as well as adversely affect our ability to attract and retain other experienced and talented employees. any such disruption or uncertainty could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. further, such disruption may hinder our ability to maintain an effective system of internal controls and compliance with the requirements under the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. our ability to conduct business globally may be affected by a variety of legal, regulatory, political, and economic risks. our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to maintain our current level of operations in our existing markets is subject to certain risks associated with operating in various locations around the globe. these include, but are not limited to: complying with a variety of u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, trade, labor, product labeling, and product safety restrictions, as well as the foreign corrupt practices act, which prohibits u.s. companies from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and similar foreign country laws, such as the u.k. bribery act, which prohibits u.k. and related companies from any form of bribery; adapting to local customs and culture; unexpected changes in laws, judicial processes, or regulatory requirements; the imposition of additional duties, tariffs, taxes, and other charges or other barriers to trade; changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; political instability and terrorist attacks; and general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets. 27 changes in regulatory, geopolitical, social, economic, or monetary policies and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our business in the future, or may require us to exit a particular market or significantly modify our current business practices. for example, there continues to be concerns regarding trade relations between the u.s. and china, as both countries recently imposed significant new tariffs on each other related to the importation of certain product categories, and additional tariffs have been proposed. as approximately one-third of our products are sourced from china, the u.s.'s imposition of new tariffs on apparel or other goods imported from china could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales and profitability. although we are actively reviewing options to mitigate our exposure in the event any resulting tariffs impact our product categories, there can be no assurance that we will be able to offset any increased costs. there have also been recent changes to u.s. participation in, and discussion regarding the potential renegotiation of, certain international trade agreements. we cannot predict if, and to what extent, there will be changes to international trade agreements or the resulting impact such changes would have on our consolidated financial statements. for a discussion of risks associated with the importation of products, see " our business is subject to risks associated with importing products and the ability of our manufacturers to produce our goods on time and to our specifications. " our business could also be impacted by changes to the tax laws and regulations in the countries where we operate. for example, the organisation for economic co-operation and development (the "oecd"), which represents a coalition of member countries, has proposed changes to numerous long-standing tax principles through its base erosion and profit shifting project, which is focused on a number of issues, including the shifting of profits among affiliated entities located in different tax jurisdictions. in response, certain member countries are beginning to implement legislation to align their international tax rules with the oecd's recommendations. taxing authorities of certain state, local, and other foreign jurisdictions may also decide to modify existing tax laws. we cannot predict which, if any, of these items or others will be enacted into law or the resulting impact any such enactment will have on our consolidated financial statements. however, if new legislation were enacted, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. additionally, in june 2016, voters in the united kingdom approved an advisory referendum to withdraw from the european union, commonly referred to as "brexit." subsequently, in march 2017, the united kingdom's government invoked article 50 of the treaty on european union, which formally triggered the negotiation process to exit the european union. negotiations to determine the united kingdom's future relationship with the european union, including terms of trade, have been complex. in january 2019, british parliament rejected prime minister theresa may's proposed withdrawal agreement, and it is not clear at this time what, if any, agreements will be reached by the current october 31, 2019 deadline. a withdrawal could significantly disrupt the free movement of goods, services, and people between the united kingdom and the european union, and result in increased legal and regulatory complexities, as well as potential higher costs of conducting business in europe. the uncertainty surrounding the terms of the united kingdom's withdrawal and its consequences could adversely impact consumer and investor confidence, and the level of consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, including our products. any of these effects, among others, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. brexit has also contributed to significant volatility and uncertainty in global stock markets and currency exchange rates, and such volatility could continue to occur as the negotiation process progresses. for a discussion of risks related to currency exchange fluctuations, see " our business is exposed to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations. " our business is subject to risks associated with importing products and the ability of our manufacturers to produce our goods on time and to our specifications. we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and depend exclusively on independent third parties for the manufacture of our products. our products are manufactured to our specifications through arrangements with over 500 foreign manufacturers in various countries. in fiscal 2019 , over 97% of our products (by dollar value) were produced outside of the u.s., primarily in asia, europe, and latin america, with approximately one-third of our products sourced from china. risks inherent in importing our products include: changes in social, political, and economic conditions or terrorist acts that could result in the disruption of trade from the countries in which our manufacturers or suppliers are located; the imposition of additional regulations, quotas, or safeguards relating to imports or exports, and costs of complying with such regulations and other laws relating to the identification and reporting of the sources of minerals used in our products; the imposition of additional duties, tariffs, taxes, and other charges on imports or exports; unfavorable changes in the availability, cost, or quality of raw materials and commodities; increases in the cost of labor, travel, and transportation; 28 disruptions of shipping and international trade caused by natural and man-made disasters, labor strikes, or other unforeseen events; heightened terrorism-related cargo and supply chain security concerns, which could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent, or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in the delivery of cargo; decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to lost sales, increased costs for our anti-counterfeiting measures, and damage to the reputation of our brands; pandemic and epidemic diseases, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials, and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas; and the imposition of sanctions in the form of additional duties either by the u.s. or its trading partners to remedy perceived illegal actions by national governments. any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. for a discussion of risks related to the potential imposition of additional regulations and laws, see " our ability to conduct business globally may be affected by a variety of legal, regulatory, political, and economic risks. " in addition, the inability of a manufacturer to ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our strict quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items, which could result in cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries, or a substantial reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. prices of raw materials used to manufacture our products may also fluctuate, and increases in prices of such raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales. furthermore, the cost of labor at many of our third-party manufacturers has been increasing significantly and, as the middle class in developing countries such as china continues to grow, it is unlikely that such cost pressure will abate. the cost of transportation remains significant as well, and it is likely that such cost will fluctuate significantly if oil prices remain volatile. we may not be able to offset such increases in raw materials, freight, or labor costs through pricing actions or other means. a data security or privacy breach could damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers or employees, expose us to litigation risk, and adversely affect our business. we are dependent on information technology systems and networks, including the internet, for a significant portion of our direct-to-consumer sales, including our digital commerce operations and retail business credit card transaction authorization and processing. we are also responsible for storing data relating to our customers and employees and rely on third parties for the operation of our digital commerce websites and for the various social media tools and websites we use as part of our marketing strategy. in our normal course of business, we often collect, transmit, and/or retain certain sensitive and confidential customer information, including credit card information. there is significant concern by consumers, employees, and lawmakers alike over the security of personal information transmitted over the internet, consumer identity theft, and user privacy, as cyber-criminals are becoming increasingly more sophisticated in their attempts to gain unauthorized access to computer systems and confidential or sensitive data. we have a longstanding information security risk program committed to regular risk management practices surrounding the protection of confidential data. this program includes various technical controls, including security monitoring, data leakage protection, network segmentation and access controls around the computer resources that house confidential or sensitive data. we have also implemented employee awareness training programs around phishing, malware, and other cyber risks. we continually evaluate the security environment surrounding the handling and control of our critical data, especially the private data we receive from our customers, employees and partners, and have instituted additional measures to help protect us from system intrusion or data breaches. additionally, we have purchased network security and cyber liability insurance in order to provide a level of financial protection, should a data breach occur. despite the security measures we currently have in place, our facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, phishing attacks, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other internet or email events. the increased use of smartphones, tablets, and other wireless devices may also heighten these and other operational risks. the retail industry in particular continues to be the target of many cyber-attacks, which are becoming increasingly more difficult to anticipate and prevent due to their rapidly evolving nature. the technology we use to protect our systems from being breached or compromised could become outdated as a result of advances in computer capabilities or other technological developments. additionally, measures we implement to protect our computer systems against cyber-attacks may make them harder to use or reduce the speed at which they operate, which in turn could negatively impact our customers' shopping experience resulting in reduced website traffic, diminished loyalty to our brands, and lost sales. 29 any perceived or actual electronic or physical security breach involving the misappropriation, loss, or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential or personally identifiable information, including penetration of our network security, whether by us or by a third party, could disrupt our business, severely damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers or employees, expose us to risks of litigation, significant fines and penalties, and liability, and result in deterioration in our customers' and employees' confidence in us, and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. since we do not control third-party service providers and cannot guarantee that no electronic or physical computer break-ins and security breaches will occur in the future, any perceived or actual unauthorized disclosure of personally identifiable information regarding our employees, customers or website visitors could harm our reputation and credibility, result in lost sales, impair our ability to attract website visitors, and/or reduce our ability to attract and retain employees and customers. as these threats develop and grow, we may find it necessary to make significant further investments to protect data and our infrastructure, including the implementation of new computer systems or upgrades to existing systems, deployment of additional personnel and protection-related technologies, engagement of third-party consultants, and training of employees. in addition, the regulatory environment relating to information security and privacy is becoming increasingly more demanding with frequent new requirements surrounding the handling, protection, and use of personal and sensitive information, such as the california consumer privacy act and the european union's general data privacy regulation. we may incur significant costs in complying with the various applicable state, federal, and foreign laws regarding protection of, and unauthorized disclosure of, personal information. additionally, failing to comply with such laws and regulations could damage the reputation of our brands and lead to adverse consumer actions, as well as expose us to government enforcement action and/or private litigation, any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our business could suffer if our computer systems and websites are disrupted or cease to operate effectively. we are dependent on our computer systems to record and process transactions and manage and operate our business, including designing, marketing, manufacturing, importing, tracking, and distributing our products, processing payments, accounting for and reporting financial results, and managing our employees and employee benefit programs. in addition, we have digital commerce and other informational websites in north america, europe, and asia, including australia and new zealand, and have plans for additional digital commerce sites in the future. given the complexity of our business and the significant number of transactions that we engage in on a daily basis, it is imperative that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our computer hardware and software systems. despite our preventative efforts, our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from, among other things, security breaches, computer viruses, technical malfunctions, inadequate system capacity, power outages, natural disasters, and usage errors by our employees or third-party consultants. if our information technology systems become damaged or otherwise cease to function properly, we may have to make significant investments to repair or replace them. additionally, confidential or sensitive data related to our customers or employees could be lost or compromised. we are continually improving and upgrading our computer systems and software, which also involves risks and uncertainties. any disruptions, delays, or deficiencies in the design, implementation, or transition of such systems could result in increased costs, disruptions in the sourcing, sale, and shipment of our product, delays in the collection of cash from our customers, and/or adversely affect our ability to accurately report our financial results in a timely manner. any material disruptions in our information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may result in volatility of our operating results. we are subject to income and non-income taxes in many u.s. and certain foreign jurisdictions, with the applicable tax rates varying by jurisdiction. we record tax expense based on our estimates of future payments, which include reserves for uncertain tax positions in multiple tax jurisdictions. at any one time, multiple tax years are subject to audit by various taxing authorities. the results of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may affect the ultimate settlement of these issues. as a result, we expect that throughout the year there could be ongoing variability in our quarterly tax rates as events occur and exposures are evaluated. our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may also be materially impacted by changes in the mix and level of earnings by jurisdiction or by changes to existing accounting rules. additionally, our products are subject to import and excise duties, and/or sales, consumption, value-added taxes ("vat"), and other non-income taxes in certain international jurisdictions. failure to correctly calculate or submit the appropriate amount of income or non-income taxes could subject us to substantial fines and penalties and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. in addition, the tax laws and regulations in the countries where we operate may change or there may be changes in interpretation and enforcement of existing tax laws, which could materially affect our income tax expense in our consolidated financial statements. for a discussion of risks related to the potential imposition of additional regulations and laws, see " our ability to conduct business globally may be affected by a variety of legal, regulatory, political, and economic risks. " 30 our business is exposed to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations. our business is exposed to foreign currency exchange risk. specifically, changes in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and other currencies impact our financial results from a transactional perspective, as our foreign operations generally purchase inventory in u.s. dollars, as is common for most apparel companies. given that we source most of our products overseas, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. changes in currency exchange rates may also impact consumers' willingness or ability to travel abroad and/or purchase our products while traveling, as well as affect the u.s. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated prices at which our international businesses sell products. additionally, the operating results and financial position of our international subsidiaries are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as their financial results are translated from the respective local currency into u.s. dollars during the financial statement consolidation process. the foreign currencies to which we are exposed to from a transactional and translational perspective primarily include the euro, the japanese yen, the south korean won, the australian dollar, the canadian dollar, the british pound sterling, the swiss franc, the swedish krona, the chinese renminbi, the new taiwan dollar, and the hong kong dollar. the expansion of our international business increases our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. although we hedge certain exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates arising in the ordinary course of business, we cannot fully anticipate all of our currency exposures and therefore foreign currency fluctuations may have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. in addition, factors that could impact the effectiveness of our hedging activities include the volatility of currency markets, the accuracy of forecasted transactions, and the availability of hedging instruments. as such, our hedging activities may not completely mitigate the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations. see item 7 " management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk management ." a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from a limited number of large wholesale customers. our business could be adversely affected as a result of consolidations, liquidations, restructurings, other ownership changes in the retail industry, and/or any financial instability of our large wholesale customers. several of our department store customers, including some under common ownership, account for a significant portion of our wholesale net sales. a substantial portion of sales of our licensed products by our domestic licensing partners are also made to our largest department store customers. during fiscal 2019 , sales to our largest wholesale customer, macy's, accounted for approximately 8% of total net revenues. further, sales to our three largest wholesale customers, including macy's, accounted for approximately 19% of total net revenues for fiscal 2019 , and constituted approximately 33% of our total gross trade accounts receivable outstanding as of march 30, 2019 . substantially all sales to our three largest wholesale customers related to our north america segment. we typically do not enter into long-term agreements with our customers. instead, we enter into a number of purchase order commitments with our customers for each of our product lines every season. a decision by the controlling owner of a group of stores or any other significant customer, whether motivated by competitive conditions, financial difficulties, or otherwise, to decrease or eliminate the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing partners or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing partners or their new strategic and operational initiatives, including their continued focus on further development of their "private label" initiatives, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. in addition, as a result of unfavorable economic conditions, certain of our large wholesale customers, particularly those located in the u.s., have been highly promotional in recent years and have aggressively marked down their merchandise, including our products. such promotional activity could negatively impact our brand image and/or lead to requests from those customers for increased markdown allowances at the end of the season, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. in response and in connection with our growth plan, we strategically reduce shipments to certain of our customers when deemed appropriate. the department store sector has also experienced numerous consolidations, restructurings, reorganizations, and other ownership changes in recent years. any such actions in the future could result in a reduction in the number of stores that carry our products, and the stores that remain open may purchase fewer of our products and/or reduce the retail floor space designated to our brands. there can be no assurance that consolidations, restructurings, reorganizations, or other ownership changes in the department store sector will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we sell our wholesale merchandise primarily to major department stores across north america, europe, asia, and australia, and extend credit based on an evaluation of each wholesale customer's financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. however, the financial difficulties of a wholesale customer could cause us to limit or eliminate our business with that customer. 31 we may also assume more credit risk relating to that customer's receivables. our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. see item 1 " business wholesale credit control. " economic conditions could have a negative impact on our major customers, suppliers, vendors, and lenders, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business. although we believe that our cash provided by operations and available borrowing capacity under our credit facilities and commercial paper borrowing program will provide us with sufficient liquidity, the impact of economic conditions on our major customers, suppliers, vendors, and lenders and their ability to access global capital markets cannot be predicted. the inability of major manufacturers to ship our products could impair our ability to meet the delivery date requirements of our customers. deterioration in global financial markets could affect our ability to access sources of liquidity to provide for our future cash needs, increase the cost of any future financing, or cause our lenders to be unable to meet their funding commitments under our credit facilities. a disruption in the ability of our significant customers to access liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their businesses which could lead to a significant reduction in their future orders of our products and the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our business could suffer if we need to replace manufacturers or distribution centers. we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and depend exclusively on independent third parties for the manufacture of our products. we compete with other companies for the production capacity of our manufacturers. some of these competitors may place larger orders than we do, and thus may have an advantage in securing production capacity. if we experience a significant increase in demand, or if an existing manufacturer of ours must be replaced, we may have to expand our third-party manufacturing capacity. we cannot guarantee that this additional capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us. see item 1 " business sourcing, production and quality. " we enter into a number of purchase order commitments each season specifying a time for delivery, method of payment, design and quality specifications, and other standard industry provisions, but do not have long-term contracts with any manufacturer. none of the manufacturers we use produce our products exclusively. in addition, we rely on a number of owned, leased, and independently-operated distribution facilities around the world to warehouse and ship products to our customers and perform other related logistic services. our ability to meet the needs of our customers depends on the proper operation of these distribution centers. if any of our distribution centers were closed or were to become inoperable or inaccessible for any reason, including failure to successfully consolidate existing facilities or transition to new facilities, we could experience a substantial loss of inventory, disruption of deliveries to our customers and our stores, increased costs, and longer lead times associated with the distribution of products during the period that would be required to reopen or replace the facility. these disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we also rely upon third-party transportation providers for substantially all of our product shipments, including shipments to and from our distribution centers, to our stores and shop-within-shops, and to our digital commerce and wholesale customers. our utilization of these shipping services are subject to various risks, including, but not limited to, potential labor strikes and severe weather, which could delay the timing of shipments, and increases in wages and fuel prices, which could result in higher transportation costs. any delays in the timing of our product shipments or increases in transportation costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our business could be adversely affected by natural disasters and other catastrophic events in the locations in which we or our customers or suppliers operate. we have operations, including retail, distribution, and warehousing operations, in locations subject to natural disasters, such as severe weather, geological events, and epidemic diseases, and other catastrophic events, such as terrorist attacks and military conflict, any of which could disrupt our operations. in addition, our customers and suppliers also have operations in these locations and could experience similar disruptions. the occurrence of natural disasters or other catastrophic events may result in sudden disruptions in the business operations of the local economies affected, as well as of the regional and global economies. in addition, our business can be affected by unseasonable weather conditions, such as extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures in the winter or unseasonably cold temperatures in the summer. any of these events could result in decreased demand for our products and disruptions in our sales channels and manufacturing and distribution networks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 32 our trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected outside the u.s. we believe that our trademarks, intellectual property, and other proprietary rights are extremely important to our success and our competitive position. we devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and anti-counterfeiting activities worldwide. however, significant counterfeiting and imitation of our products continue to exist. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect trademarks or other proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the u.s. and, as a result, our intellectual property may be more vulnerable and difficult to protect in such countries. in the course of our international expansion we have experienced conflicts with various third parties that have acquired or claimed ownership rights to some of our key trademarks that include polo and/or a representation of a polo player astride a horse, or otherwise have contested our rights to our trademarks. we have resolved certain of these conflicts through both legal action and negotiated settlements. we cannot guarantee that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent counterfeiting, lost business, or brand dilution, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business. we expect to continue to devote substantial resources to challenge brands arising from imitation of our products. also, there can be no assurance that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of ours or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction or at all. see item 1 " business trademarks, " and item 3 " legal proceedings ." our business could suffer if we fail to comply with labor laws or if one of our manufacturers fails to use acceptable labor or environmental practices. we are subject to labor laws governing relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions, and citizenship requirements. compliance with these laws may lead to increased costs and operational complexity and may increase our exposure to governmental investigations or litigation. in addition, we require our licensing partners and independent manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. while our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices and our employees periodically visit and monitor the operations of our independent manufacturers, we do not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. the violation of labor, environmental, or other laws by an independent manufacturer used by us or one of our licensing partners, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer's or licensing partner's labor or environmental practices from those generally accepted as ethical or appropriate in the u.s., could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. any of these events, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. certain legal proceedings, regulatory matters, and accounting changes could adversely affect our business. we are involved in certain legal proceedings and regulatory matters and are subject from time to time to various claims involving alleged breach of contract claims, intellectual property and other related claims, escheatment and unclaimed property, credit card fraud, security breaches in certain of our retail store information systems, employment issues, consumer matters, and other litigation. certain of these lawsuits and claims, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, could result in material liability to our company or have a negative impact on our reputation or relations with our employees, customers, licensees, or other third parties. in addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, such proceedings could result in substantial costs and may require our company to devote substantial time and resources to defend itself. further, changes in governmental regulations both in the u.s. and in other countries where we conduct business operations could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. see item 3 " legal proceedings " for further discussion of our company's legal matters. in addition, we are subject to changes in accounting rules and interpretations issued by the financial accounting standards board and other regulatory agencies. if and when effective, such changes to accounting standards could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. see note 4 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a description of certain recently issued accounting standards. the trading prices of our securities periodically may rise or fall based on the accuracy of predictions of our earnings or other financial performance, including our ability to return value to shareholders. our business planning process is designed to maximize our long-term strength, growth, and profitability, and not to achieve an earnings target in any particular fiscal quarter. we believe that this longer-term focus is in the best interests of our company and our stockholders. at the same time, however, we recognize that, from time to time, it may be helpful to provide investors with guidance as to our quarterly and annual forecast of net sales and earnings. while we generally expect to provide updates to our guidance when we report our results each fiscal quarter, we do not have any responsibility to update any of our forward-looking 33 statements at such times or otherwise. in addition, any longer-term guidance that we provide is based on goals that we believe, at the time guidance is given, are reasonably attainable. however, such long-range targets are more difficult to predict than our current quarter and full fiscal year expectations. if, or when, we announce actual results that differ from those that have been predicted by us, outside analysts, or others, the market price of our securities could be adversely affected. investors who rely on these predictions when making investment decisions with respect to our securities do so at their own risk. we take no responsibility for any losses suffered as a result of such changes in the prices of our securities. in addition, we periodically return value to shareholders through our payment of quarterly cash dividends and common stock share repurchases. investors may have an expectation that we will continue to pay quarterly cash dividends, further increase our cash dividend rate, and/or repurchase shares available under our class a common stock repurchase program. our ability to pay quarterly cash dividends and repurchase our class a common stock will depend on our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future. this ability may be subject to certain economic, financial, competitive, and other factors that are beyond our control. further, our board of directors may, at its discretion, elect to suspend or otherwise alter these programs at any time. the market price of our securities could be adversely affected if our cash dividend payments and/or class a common stock share repurchase activity differ from investors' expectations. the voting shares of our company's stock are concentrated in one majority stockholder. as of march 30, 2019 , mr. ralph lauren, or entities controlled by the lauren family, held approximately 83% of the voting power of the outstanding common stock of our company. in addition, mr. r. lauren serves as our executive chairman and chief creative officer, mr. r. lauren's son, mr. david lauren, serves as our chief innovation officer, strategic advisor to the ceo, and vice chairman of the board of directors, and we employ other members of the lauren family. from time to time, we may have other business dealings with mr. r. lauren, members of the lauren family, or entities affiliated with mr. r. lauren or the lauren family. as a result of his stock ownership and position in our company, mr. r. lauren has the ability to exercise significant control over our business, including, without limitation, (i) the election of our class b common stock directors, voting separately as a class and (ii) any action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation and the approval of mergers or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. we rely on our licensing partners to preserve the value of our licenses. failure to maintain licensing partners could harm our business. the risks associated with our own products also apply to our licensed products in addition to any number of possible risks specific to a licensing partner's business, including risks associated with a particular licensing partner's ability to: obtain capital; execute its business plans; manage its labor relations; maintain relationships with its suppliers and customers; and manage its credit and bankruptcy risks effectively. although a number of our license agreements prohibit our licensing partners from entering into licensing arrangements with our competitors, our licensing partners generally are not precluded from offering, under other non-competitor brands, the types of products covered by their license agreements with us. a substantial portion of sales of our products by our domestic licensing partners are also made to our largest customers. while we have significant control over our licensing partners' products and advertising, we rely on our licensing partners for, among other things, operational and financial control over their businesses. changes in management, reduced sales of licensed products, poor execution, or financial difficulties with respect to any of our licensing partners could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. although we believe that we could replace our existing licensing partners in most circumstances, if necessary, our inability to do so for any period of time could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. see item 1 " business our licensing business. " 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. for a discussion of our exposure to market risk, see "market risk management" in item 7 included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors there are risks associated with an investment in our securities. the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risk factors could materially adversely affect our business, our prospects, our results of operations, our financial condition, our liquidity, the trading price of our securities, and/or the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently view as immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition in future periods or if circumstances change. the loss of the services of mr. ralph lauren, members of our executive management team, or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. mr. ralph lauren's leadership in the design and marketing areas of our business has been a critical element of our success since the inception of our company. mr. r. lauren is instrumental to, and closely identified with, our brand that bears his name. our ability to maintain our brand image and leverage the goodwill associated with mr. r. lauren's name may be damaged if we were to lose his services. the death or disability of mr. r. lauren or other extended or permanent loss of his services, or any negative market or industry perception with respect to him or arising from his loss, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we also depend on the service and management experience of other key executive officers and other members of senior management who have substantial experience and expertise in our industry and our business and have made significant contributions to our growth and success. competition in our industry to attract and retain these employees is intense and is influenced by our reputation, our ability to offer competitive compensation and benefits, and economic conditions, among other factors. the loss of the services of any of our key executive officers or other members of senior management, or one or more of our other key personnel, or the concurrent loss of several of these individuals or any negative public perception with respect to these individuals, could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we are not protected by a material amount of key-man or similar life insurance covering our executive officers, including mr. r. lauren, or other members of senior management. we have entered into employment agreements with certain of our executive officers, but competition for experienced executives in our industry is intense and the non-compete period with respect to certain of our executive officers could, in some circumstances in the event of their termination of employment with our company, end prior to the employment term set forth in their employment agreements. infectious disease outbreaks, such as the recent covid-19 pandemic, could have a material adverse effect on our business. our business could be adversely affected by infectious disease outbreaks, such as the recent novel strain of coronavirus commonly referred to as covid-19. covid-19 has spread rapidly across the globe in recent months, including throughout all major geographies in which we operate (north america, europe, and asia), resulting in adverse economic conditions and business disruptions, as well as significant volatility in global financial markets. governments worldwide have imposed varying degrees of preventative and protective actions, such as temporary travel bans, forced business closures, and stay-at-home orders, all in an effort to reduce the spread of the virus. in connection with the covid-19 pandemic, we have experienced varying degrees of business disruptions and periods of closure of our stores, distribution centers, and corporate facilities, as have our wholesale customers, licensing partners, suppliers, and vendors, as described in item 1 " business recent developments. " the covid-19 pandemic remains highly volatile and continues to evolve on a daily basis. accordingly, we cannot predict for how long and to what extent this crisis will impact our business operations or the global economy as a whole. potential impacts to our business include, but are not limited to, the following: our ability to successfully execute our long-term growth strategy during these uncertain times; temporary closures of our stores, distribution centers, and corporate facilities for unknown periods of time, as well as those of our wholesale customers and licensing partners; potential declines in the level of consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, including our products, caused by lower disposal income levels, travel restrictions, or other factors beyond our control; 23 the potential build-up of excess inventory as a result of store closures and/or lower consumer demand, including those resulting from potential changes in consumer behavior and/or shopping preferences, such as their willingness to congregate in shopping centers or other populated locations; supply chain disruptions resulting from closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials, and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas; our ability to access capital markets and maintain compliance with covenants associated with our existing debt instruments, as well as the ability of our key customers, suppliers, and vendors to do the same in regard to their own obligations; the potential loss of one or more of our significant wholesale customers, or the loss of a large number of smaller wholesale customers, if they are not able to withstand prolonged periods of adverse economic conditions, and our ability to collect outstanding receivables; our ability to maintain an effective system of internal controls and compliance with the requirements under the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002; and diversion of management attention and resources from ongoing business activities and/or a decrease in employee morale. additional discussion related to the various risks and uncertainties described above is included elsewhere within this "risk factors" section of our form 10-k. economic, political, and other conditions may adversely affect the level of consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, including our products. the industries in which we operate are cyclical. many economic and other factors outside of our control affect the level of consumer spending in the apparel, footwear, accessory, and home product industries, including, among others: man-made or natural disasters, including pandemic diseases such as covid-19; consumer perceptions of personal well-being and safety; consumer perceptions of current and future economic conditions; employment levels and wage rates; stock market performance; inflation; interest rates; foreign currency exchange rates; the housing market; consumer debt levels; the availability of consumer credit; commodity prices, including fuel and energy costs; taxation; general domestic and international political conditions; the threat, outbreak, or escalation of terrorism, military conflicts, or other hostilities; and weather conditions. consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, including our products, tend to decline during recessionary periods and at other times when disposable income is lower. unfavorable economic conditions and other factors, such as disease pandemics and other health-related concerns, political unrest, war, and acts of terrorism, may also reduce consumers' willingness and ability to travel to major cities and vacation destinations in which our stores and shop-within-shops are located. 24 further, consumers may prefer to spend more of their discretionary income on "experiences," such as dining and entertainment, over consumer goods. a downturn or an uncertain outlook in the economies in which we, or our wholesale customers and licensing partners, sell our products may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. see item 7 " management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations global economic conditions and industry trends " for further discussion. our profitability may decline if we are unable to effectively manage inventory or as a result of increasing pressure on margins. we have implemented key strategic initiatives designed to optimize our inventory levels and improve the efficiency and responsiveness of our supply chain. although we have shortened lead times for the design, sourcing, and production of certain of our product lines, we expect to continue to place orders with our vendors for the majority of products in advance of the related selling season. as a result, we are vulnerable to changes in consumer preferences and demand and pricing shifts. our failure to continue to shorten lead times or to correctly anticipate consumer preferences and demand could result in the build-up of excess inventory. other factors beyond our control could also result in the build-up of excess inventory, including unforeseen adverse economic conditions or business disruptions, such as those caused by the covid-19 pandemic. excess inventory levels could result in the utilization of less-preferred distribution channels, markdowns, promotional sales, destruction, or donations to dispose of such excess or slow-moving inventory, which may negatively impact our overall profitability and/or impair the image of our brands. conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if manufacturers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages, which may negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty, and result in lost sales. any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. additionally, our industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition and a highly promotional retail environment, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products, and changes in consumer spending patterns. although we continue to limit our promotional activity in connection with our quality of sales initiatives, these factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, which could cause our gross margin to decline if we are unable to appropriately manage inventory levels and/or otherwise offset price reductions with comparable reductions in our costs. if our sales prices decline and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, our profitability will decline. this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. in addition, changes in our customer, channel, and geographic sales mix could have a negative impact on our profitability. a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from a limited number of large wholesale customers. our business could be adversely affected as a result of consolidations, liquidations, restructurings, other ownership changes in the retail industry, and/or any financial instability of our large wholesale customers. several of our department store customers, including some under common ownership, account for a significant portion of our wholesale net sales. a substantial portion of sales of our licensed products by our domestic licensing partners are also made to our largest department store customers. during fiscal 2020 , sales to our three largest wholesale customers, accounted for approximately 18% of total net revenues for fiscal 2020 , and constituted approximately 32% of our total gross trade accounts receivable outstanding as of march 28, 2020 . substantially all sales to our three largest wholesale customers related to our north america segment. we typically do not enter into long-term agreements with our customers. instead, we enter into a number of purchase order commitments with our customers for each of our product lines every season. a decision by the controlling owner of a group of stores or any other significant customer, whether motivated by economic conditions, financial difficulties, competitive conditions, or otherwise, to decrease or eliminate the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing partners or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing partners or their new strategic and operational initiatives, including their continued focus on further development of their "private label" initiatives, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. additionally, as a result of the covid-19 pandemic, our wholesale customers have experienced significant business disruptions, including reduced traffic and temporary store closures. there can be no assurance that our wholesale customers have adequate financial resources and/or access to additional capital to withstand prolonged periods of such adverse economic conditions. the loss of one or more significant wholesale customers, or the loss of a large number of smaller wholesale customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 25 further, prior to the covid-19 pandemic, certain of our large wholesale customers, particularly those located in the u.s., have been highly promotional and have aggressively marked down their merchandise, including our products. the continuation of such promotional activity could negatively impact our brand image and/or lead to requests from those customers for increased markdown allowances at the end of the season, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. in response and in connection with our growth plan, we strategically reduce shipments to certain of our customers when deemed appropriate. the department store sector has also experienced numerous consolidations, restructurings, reorganizations, and other ownership changes in recent years, which could potentially increase in frequency in the near-term given the covid-19 pandemic. any such actions could result in a reduction in the number of stores that carry our products, and the stores that remain open may purchase fewer of our products and/or reduce the retail floor space designated to our brands. there can be no assurance that consolidations, restructurings, reorganizations, or other ownership changes in the department store sector will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we sell our wholesale merchandise primarily to major department stores, specialty stores, and third-party digital partners across north america, europe, asia, and australia, and extend credit based on an evaluation of each wholesale customer's financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. however, the financial difficulties of a wholesale customer, including those resulting from the covid-19 pandemic, could cause us to limit or eliminate our business with that customer. we may also assume more credit risk relating to that customer's receivables. our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. see item 1 " business wholesale credit control. " economic conditions could have a negative impact on our major customers, suppliers, vendors, and lenders, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business. although we believe that our existing cash and investments, cash provided by operations, and available borrowing capacity under our credit facilities and commercial paper borrowing program will provide us with sufficient liquidity, the impact of economic conditions on our major customers, suppliers, vendors, and lenders, including those resulting from the covid-19 pandemic, and their ability to access global capital markets cannot be predicted. the inability of major manufacturers to ship our products could impair our ability to meet the delivery date requirements of our customers. deterioration in global financial or capital markets could affect our ability to access sources of liquidity to provide for our future cash needs, increase the cost of any future financing, or cause our lenders to be unable to meet their funding commitments under our credit facilities. a disruption in the ability of our significant customers to access liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their businesses which could lead to a significant reduction in their future orders of our products and the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we cannot assure the successful implementation of our growth strategy. we have developed a long-term growth strategy with the objective of delivering sustainable, profitable growth and long-term value creation for shareholders, as described in item 1 " business objectives and opportunities. " our ability to successfully execute our growth strategy is subject to various risks and uncertainties, as described within this "risk factors" section of our form 10-k. although we believe that our growth strategy will lead to long-term growth in revenue and profitability, there can be no assurance regarding the timing of or extent to which we will realize the anticipated benefits, if at all. our failure to realize the anticipated benefits, which may be due to our inability to execute the various elements of our growth strategy, changes in consumer preferences, competition, economic conditions, and other risks described herein, such as those related to the covid-19 pandemic, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. such a failure could also result in the implementation of additional restructuring-related activities, which may be dilutive to our earnings in the short term. achievement of our growth strategy may require investment in new capabilities, distribution channels, and technologies. these investments may result in short-term costs without accompanying current revenues and, therefore, may be dilutive to our earnings in the short term. there can be no assurance regarding the timing of or extent to which we will realize the anticipated benefits of these investments and other costs, if at all. 26 we may not be successful in the expansion of our multi-channel distribution network or accelerating growth in certain product categories. implementation of our growth strategy involves the continuation and expansion of our multi-channel distribution network, including within international markets such as china, which is subject to many factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to: identify new or underpenetrated markets where our products and brand will be accepted by consumers; attract customers, particularly in new markets; identify desirable freestanding and department store locations, the availability of which may be out of our control; negotiate acceptable lease terms, including desired tenant improvement allowances; efficiently and cost effectively build-out stores and shop-within-shops; source sufficient inventory levels to meet the needs of the new stores and shop-within-shops; hire, train, and retain competent store personnel; and integrate new stores and shop-within-shops into our existing systems and operations. any of these challenges could delay or otherwise prevent us from successfully executing our distribution expansion strategy. there can be no assurance that our new stores and shop-within-shops will be successful and profitable or if the capital costs associated with the build-out of such new locations will be recovered. further, entry into new markets may bring us into competition with new or existing competitors that have a more established market presence than us or other competitive advantages. other risks related to our international expansion plans include general economic conditions in specific countries or markets, changes in diplomatic and trade relationships and any resulting anti-american sentiment, political instability, and foreign government regulation, among other risks described herein. if our expansion plans are unsuccessful or do not deliver an appropriate return on our investments, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. the success of our business also depends on our ability to continue to maintain, enhance, and expand our digital footprint and capabilities. consumers are increasingly shopping online using computers, smartphones, tablets, and other devices. any failure on our part, or on the part of our third-party digital partners, to provide attractive, reliable, secure, and user-friendly digital commerce platforms, including mobile apps, could negatively impact our customers' shopping experience resulting in reduced website traffic, diminished loyalty to our brands, and lost sales. in addition, as we continue to expand and increase the global presence of our digital commerce business, sales from our brick and mortar stores and wholesale channels of distribution in areas where digital commerce sites are introduced may decline due to changes in consumer shopping habits and cannibalization. our growth strategy also includes accelerating growth in certain high-value, underdeveloped product categories, comprised of denim, wear to work, outerwear, footwear, and accessories. we compete with other retailers in these product categories, some of which may be significantly larger than us and more established in these product categories, and competition is intense, as described within other risk factors herein. there can be no assurance that our targeted expansion in these product categories will be successful. the success of our business depends on our ability to respond to constantly changing fashion and retail trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner, develop products that resonate with our existing customers and attract new customers, and provide a seamless shopping experience to our customers. the industries in which we operate have historically been subject to rapidly changing fashion trends and consumer preferences. our success depends in large part on our ability to originate and define fashion product and home product trends, as well as to anticipate, gauge, and react to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner. our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers worldwide whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change, influenced by fashion trends, current economic conditions, and weather conditions, among other factors. this issue is further compounded by the increasing use of digital and social media by consumers and the speed by which information and opinions are shared across the globe. we cannot assure that we will be able to continue to develop appealing styles or successfully meet constantly changing consumer preferences in the future. in addition, we cannot assure that any new products or brands that we introduce will be successfully received by consumers. any failure on our part to anticipate, identify, and respond effectively to changing consumer preferences and fashion trends could adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of our products and leave us with a substantial amount of unsold inventory or missed opportunities. conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if 27 manufacturers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages. any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. for a discussion of risks related to our inventory management, see " our profitability may decline if we are unable to effectively manage inventory or as a result of increasing pressure on margins. " our marketing and advertising programs are integral to the success of our product offerings and on our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers. our communication campaigns are increasingly being executed through digital and social media platforms to drive further engagement with the younger consumer, with a focus on influencers. however, we cannot assure that our marketing and advertising programs will be successful or appeal to consumers. the success of our business also depends on our ability to continue to develop and maintain a reliable omni-channel experience for our customers. our business has evolved from an in-store experience to a shopping experience through multiple technologies, including computers, smartphones, tablets, and other devices, as our customers have become increasingly technologically savvy. we are increasingly using digital and social media platforms to interact with customers and enhance their shopping experience. if we are unable to develop and continuously improve our customer-facing technologies, we may not be able to provide a convenient and consistent experience to our customers regardless of the sales channel. this could negatively affect our ability to compete with other retailers and result in diminished loyalty to our brands, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we have also implemented, and expect to continue to implement, new store design concepts as part of our growth strategy. there can be no assurance that any of our store designs will resonate with customers or otherwise achieve the desired sales and profitability measures necessary to recover our initial capital investments. if customers are not receptive to the design layout or visual merchandising of our stores, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. in addition, the failure of our store designs to achieve acceptable results could lead to our decision to close a store prior to the lease expiration date. for additional discussion of risks related to the early termination of our leases, see " our business is subject to risks associated with leasing real estate and other assets under long-term, non-cancellable leases. " the success of our business depends on our ability to retain the value and reputation of our brands. our success depends on the value and reputation of our brands and our ability to consistently anticipate, identify, and respond to customers' demands, preferences, and fashion trends in the design, pricing, and production of our products, including the preference for certain products to be manufactured in the u.s. as the ralph lauren name is integral to our business, any negative publicity regarding mr. r. lauren or our company, especially through social media which accelerates and increases the potential scope of negative publicity, could negatively impact the image of our brands with our customers and result in diminished loyalty to our brands, even if the subject of such publicity is unverified or inaccurate. there is also increased focus from consumers, employees, investors, and other stakeholders concerning corporate citizenship and sustainability matters. although we have established certain long-term initiatives and goals regarding our impact on the environment and society as a whole, there can be no assurance that our various stakeholders will agree with our initiatives or if we will be successful in achieving our goals. our failure to comply with ethical, social, product safety, labor, health, environmental or other standards and regulations could damage the reputation of our brands and lead to adverse consumer actions and/or investment decisions by investors, as well as expose us to government enforcement action and/or private litigation. even if we react appropriately to negative publicity, our customers' perception of our brand image and our reputation could be negatively impacted. any failure on our part to retain the value and reputation of brands could adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we face intense competition worldwide in the markets in which we operate. we face increasing competition from companies selling apparel, footwear, accessories, home, and other of our product categories through the internet. although we sell our products through the internet, increased competition and promotional activity in the worldwide apparel, footwear, accessory, and home product industries from internet-based competitors could reduce our sales, prices, and margins and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we also face intense competition from other domestic and foreign fashion-oriented apparel, footwear, accessory, and casual apparel producers that sell products through brick and mortar stores and wholesale and licensing channels. we compete with these companies primarily on the basis of: anticipating and responding in a timely fashion to changing consumer demands and shopping preferences, including the increasing shift to digital brand engagement, social media communications, and online shopping; creating and maintaining favorable brand recognition, loyalty, and a reputation for quality; 28 developing and producing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors, and styles that appeal to consumers of varying age groups; competitively pricing our products and creating an acceptable value proposition for consumers; providing strong and effective marketing support; obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at stores and shop-within-shops; attracting consumer traffic to stores, shop-within-shops, and websites; sourcing raw materials at cost-effective prices; anticipating and maintaining proper inventory levels; ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain and distribution efficiencies with third-party manufacturers and retailers; maintaining and growing market share; recruiting and retaining key employees; protecting our intellectual property; and the ability to withstand prolonged periods of adverse economic conditions or business disruptions. some of our competitors may be significantly larger and more diversified and may have greater financial, marketing, and distribution resources, more desirable store locations, and/or greater digital commerce presence than us, among other competitive advantages. such competitive advantages may enable them to better withstand unfavorable economic conditions, compete more effectively on the basis of price and production, and/or more quickly respond to rapidly changing fashion trends and consumer preferences than us. in addition, technological advances and the retail industry's low barriers to entry allow for the introduction of new competitors and products at a rapid pace. any increased competition, or our failure to adequately address any of these competitive factors, could result in reduced market share or sales, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could restrict our ability to engage in additional capital-related transactions in the future. as of march 28, 2020, our consolidated indebtedness was approximately $1.171 billion, comprised of our outstanding borrowings under our global credit facility and senior notes. additionally, in accordance with the terms of the original agreement, we have the ability to expand our borrowing availability under the global credit facility from $500 million to $1 billion through the full term of the facility, subject to the agreement of one or more new or existing lenders under the facility to increase their commitments. further, in may 2020, we entered into a new credit facility with the same lenders that are parties to the global credit facility, which provides for an additional $500 million senior unsecured revolving line of credit that matures on may 25, 2021, or earlier in the event we are able to obtain other additional financing, as described in note 11 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. we rely on our operating cash flows to repay our outstanding borrowings, as well as to fund any working capital needs, capital expenditures, dividend payments, share repurchases, and other general corporate purposes. prolonged periods of adverse economic conditions or business disruptions in any of our key regions, or a combination thereof, such as our recent store closures in north america, europe, and asia due to covid-19, could impede our ability to pay our obligations as they become due or return value to our shareholders, as well as delay previously planned expenditures related to our operations. in addition, certain of our debt instruments contain a number of affirmative and negative covenants. on may 26, 2020, we entered into an amendment to our global credit facility that relaxed certain financial covenants while providing additional restrictions under our negative covenants for a specified period of time as further described in note 11 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. our failure to comply with such covenants, or otherwise secure temporary waivers of non-compliance, could result in our lenders demanding all amounts outstanding to be immediately repaid. credit rating agencies also periodically review our capital structure and our ability to generate earnings. a prolonged period of deteriorated financial performance or our inability to comply with debt covenants could make future financing more difficult to secure and/or expensive. 29 moreover, our global credit facility contains representations and warranties, including that there has been no material adverse change in the business, operations, property or condition (financial or otherwise) of the company and its subsidiaries, taken as a wholes, since march 2019. it is a condition to making each borrowing and to the issuance, increase, renewal or extension of each letter of credit that our representations be true at the time of the event in question. the recent amendment to the global credit facility provides that through march 31, 2021, the impact of the covid-19 pandemic as disclosed to the lenders in may 2020 or reasonably foreseeable based on the disclosure to the lenders will be disregarded for purposes of determining whether a material adverse change has occurred. further, factors beyond our control, such as adverse economic conditions, could disrupt capital markets and limit the availability or willingness of financial institutions to extend capital to us in the future. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our ability to conduct business globally may be affected by a variety of legal, regulatory, political, and economic risks. our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to maintain our current level of operations in our existing markets is subject to certain risks associated with operating in various locations around the globe. these include, but are not limited to: complying with a variety of u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, trade, labor, product labeling, and product safety restrictions, as well as the foreign corrupt practices act, which prohibits u.s. companies from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and similar foreign country laws, such as the u.k. bribery act, which prohibits u.k. and related companies from any form of bribery; adapting to local customs and culture; unexpected changes in laws, judicial processes, or regulatory requirements; the imposition of additional duties, tariffs, taxes, and other charges or other barriers to trade; changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; political instability, such as the recent protests in hong kong, and terrorist attacks; pandemic diseases, such as covid-19; and general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets. changes in regulatory, geopolitical, social, economic, or monetary policies and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our business in the future or may require us to exit a particular market or significantly modify our current business practices. for example, although trade relations between the u.s. and china have begun to ease, both countries have imposed new tariffs on each other related to the importation of certain product categories, including imports of apparel into the u.s. from china. as a result of actions to mitigate our exposure to the resulting tariffs, which include diverting production to and sourcing from other countries, driving productivity within our existing supplier base, and taking pricing actions, the tariffs enacted to date are not expected to have a material adverse impact on our business operations. however, if the u.s. decides to impose additional tariffs on apparel or other of our goods imported from china, there can be no assurance that we will be able to offset all related increased costs, which could be material to our business operations as approximately 25% of our products are sourced from china. there have also been recent changes to u.s. participation in, and discussion regarding the potential renegotiation of, certain international trade agreements such as the north american free trade agreement, now known as the u.s.-mexico-canada agreement. we cannot predict if, and to what extent, there will be changes to international trade agreements or the resulting impact such changes would have on our business operations. for a discussion of risks associated with the importation of products, see " our business is subject to risks associated with importing products and the ability of our manufacturers to produce our goods on time and to our specifications. " our business could also be impacted by changes to the tax laws and regulations in the countries where we operate. for example, the organisation for economic co-operation and development (the "oecd"), which represents a coalition of member countries, has proposed changes to numerous long-standing tax principles through its base erosion and profit shifting project, which is focused on a number of issues, including the shifting of profits among affiliated entities located in different tax jurisdictions. in response, certain member countries are beginning to implement legislation to align their international tax rules with the oecd's recommendations, such as switzerland's recently enacted swiss tax act, as described in item 1 " business recent developments. " taxing authorities of certain state, local, and other foreign jurisdictions may also decide to modify existing tax 30 laws. we cannot predict which, if any, of these items or others will be enacted into law or the resulting impact any such enactment will have on our business operations. however, if new legislation were enacted, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. additionally, the united kingdom recently withdrew from the european union, commonly referred to as "brexit." although it ceased to be a member of the european union effective january 31, 2020, the united kingdom is now in a transition period during which its existing trading relationship with the european union will remain in place and it will continue to follow the european union's rules. negotiations during the transition period to determine the united kingdom's future relationship with the european union post-transition period, including terms of trade, are expected to be complex. it is not clear at this time what, if any, agreements will be reached by the current december 31, 2020 transition period deadline. brexit could significantly disrupt the free movement of goods, services, and people between the united kingdom and the european union, and result in increased legal and regulatory complexities, as well as potential higher costs of conducting business in europe. the uncertainty surrounding the united kingdom's future relationship with the european union could also adversely impact consumer and investor confidence, and the level of consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, including our products. although we are closely monitoring the latest developments regarding brexit and are assessing risk and opportunities and developing strategies to mitigate our exposure once the transition period expires, any of these effects, among others, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. brexit has also contributed to significant volatility and uncertainty in global stock markets and currency exchange rates, and such volatility could continue to occur as the negotiation process progresses. for a discussion of risks related to currency exchange fluctuations, see " our business is exposed to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations. " our business is subject to risks associated with importing products and the ability of our manufacturers to produce our goods on time and to our specifications. we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and depend exclusively on independent third parties for the manufacture of our products. our products are manufactured to our specifications through arrangements with over 500 foreign manufacturers in various countries. in fiscal 2020 , approximately 98% of our products (by dollar value) were produced outside of the u.s., primarily in asia, europe, and latin america, with approximately 25% of our products sourced from china. risks inherent in importing our products include: pandemic diseases, such as covid-19, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials, and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas; changes in social, political, and economic conditions or terrorist acts that could result in the disruption of trade from the countries in which our manufacturers or suppliers are located; the imposition of additional regulations, quotas, or safeguards relating to imports or exports, and costs of complying with such regulations and other laws relating to the identification and reporting of the sources of minerals used in our products; the imposition of additional duties, tariffs, taxes, and other charges on imports or exports; unfavorable changes in the availability, cost, or quality of raw materials and commodities; increases in the cost of labor, travel, and transportation; disruptions of shipping and international trade caused by natural and man-made disasters, labor shortages (stemming from labor disputes, strikes, or otherwise), or other unforeseen events; heightened terrorism-related cargo and supply chain security concerns, which could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent, or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in the delivery of cargo; decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to lost sales, increased costs for our anti-counterfeiting measures, and damage to the reputation of our brands; and the imposition of sanctions in the form of additional duties either by the u.s. or its trading partners to remedy perceived illegal actions by national governments. any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. for a discussion of risks related to the potential imposition of additional regulations and laws, see " our ability to conduct business globally may be affected by a variety of legal, regulatory, political, and economic risks. " 31 in addition, the inability of a manufacturer to ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our strict quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items, which could result in cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries, or a substantial reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. prices of raw materials used to manufacture our products may also fluctuate significantly as a result of many factors, including general economic conditions, energy prices, crop yields, and availability of labor and the related costs of such labor. any increases in prices of such raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales. furthermore, the cost of labor at many of our third-party manufacturers has been increasing significantly and, as the middle class in developing countries such as china continues to grow, it is unlikely that such cost pressure will abate. the cost of transportation remains significant as well, and it is likely that such cost will fluctuate significantly if oil prices remain volatile. we may not be able to offset such increases in raw materials, freight, or labor costs through pricing actions or other means. a data security or privacy breach could damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers or employees, expose us to litigation risk, and adversely affect our business. we are dependent on information technology systems and networks, including the internet, for a significant portion of our direct-to-consumer sales, including our digital commerce operations and retail business credit card transaction authorization and processing. we are also responsible for storing data relating to our customers and employees and rely on third parties for the operation of our digital commerce websites and for the various social media tools and websites we use as part of our marketing strategy. in our normal course of business, we often collect, transmit, and/or retain certain sensitive and confidential customer information, including credit card information. there is significant concern by consumers, employees, and lawmakers alike over the security of personal information transmitted over the internet, consumer identity theft, and user privacy, as cyber-criminals are becoming increasingly more sophisticated in their attempts to gain unauthorized access to computer systems and confidential or sensitive data. despite the security measures we currently have in place (including those described in item 1 " business information systems "), our facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, phishing attacks, computer viruses, malware, ransomware, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other internet or email events. the increased use of smartphones, tablets, and other wireless devices, as well as the need for a substantial portion of our corporate employees to work remotely during the covid-19 pandemic, may also heighten these and other operational risks. the retail industry in particular continues to be the target of many cyber-attacks, which are becoming increasingly more difficult to anticipate and prevent due to their rapidly evolving nature. although we have purchased network security and cyber liability insurance to provide a level of financial protection should a data breach occur, such insurance may not cover us against all claims or costs associated with such a breach. additionally, the technology we use to protect our systems from being breached or compromised could become outdated as a result of advances in computer capabilities or other technological developments. further, measures we implement to protect our computer systems against cyber-attacks may make them harder to use or reduce the speed at which they operate, which in turn could negatively impact our customers' shopping experience resulting in reduced website traffic, diminished loyalty to our brands, and lost sales. any perceived or actual electronic or physical security breach involving the misappropriation, loss, or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential or personally identifiable information, including penetration of our network security, whether by us or by a third party, could disrupt our business, severely damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers or employees, expose us to risks of litigation, significant fines and penalties, and liability, and result in deterioration in our customers' and employees' confidence in us, and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. since we do not control third-party service providers and cannot guarantee that no electronic or physical computer break-ins and security breaches will occur in the future, any perceived or actual unauthorized disclosure of personally identifiable information regarding our employees, customers or website visitors could harm our reputation and credibility, result in lost sales, impair our ability to attract website visitors, and/or reduce our ability to attract and retain employees and customers. as these threats develop and grow, we may find it necessary to make significant further investments to protect data and our infrastructure, including the implementation of new computer systems or upgrades to existing systems, deployment of additional personnel and protection-related technologies, engagement of third-party consultants, and training of employees. in addition, the regulatory environment relating to information security and privacy is becoming increasingly more demanding with frequent new requirements surrounding the handling, protection, and use of personal and sensitive information. we may incur significant costs in complying with the various applicable state, federal, and foreign laws regarding protection of, and unauthorized disclosure of, personal information. additionally, failing to comply with such laws and regulations could damage the reputation of our brands and lead to adverse consumer actions, as well as expose us to government enforcement action and/or private litigation, any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 32 our business could suffer if our computer systems and websites are disrupted or cease to operate effectively. we are dependent on our computer systems to record and process transactions and manage and operate our business, including designing, marketing, manufacturing, importing, tracking, and distributing our products, processing payments, accounting for and reporting financial results, and managing our employees and employee benefit programs. in addition, we have digital commerce and other informational websites in north america, europe, and asia, including australia and new zealand, and have plans for additional digital commerce sites in the future. given the complexity of our business and the significant number of transactions that we engage in on a daily basis, it is imperative that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our computer hardware and software systems. despite our preventative efforts, our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from, among other things, security breaches, computer viruses, technical malfunctions, inadequate system capacity, power outages, natural disasters, and usage errors by our employees or third-party consultants. if our information technology systems become damaged or otherwise cease to function properly, we may have to make significant investments to repair or replace them. additionally, confidential or sensitive data related to our customers or employees could be lost or compromised. we are continually improving and upgrading our computer systems and software, which also involves risks and uncertainties. any disruptions, delays, or deficiencies in the design, implementation, or transition of such systems could result in increased costs, disruptions in the sourcing, sale, and shipment of our product, delays in the collection of cash from our customers, and/or adversely affect our ability to accurately report our financial results in a timely manner. any material disruptions in our information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our business could suffer if we need to replace manufacturers or distribution centers. we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and depend exclusively on independent third parties for the manufacture of our products. we compete with other companies for the production capacity of our manufacturers. some of these competitors may place larger orders than we do, and thus may have an advantage in securing production capacity. if we experience a significant increase in demand, or if an existing manufacturer of ours must be replaced, we may have to expand our third-party manufacturing capacity. we cannot guarantee that this additional capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us. see item 1 " business - sourcing, production and quality. " we enter into purchase order commitments each season specifying a time for delivery, method of payment, design and quality specifications, and other standard industry provisions, but do not have long-term contracts with any manufacturer. none of the manufacturers we use produce our products exclusively. in addition, we rely on a number of owned, leased, and independently-operated distribution facilities around the world to warehouse and ship products to our customers and perform other related logistic services. our ability to meet the needs of our customers depends on the proper operation of these distribution centers. our distributions centers generally utilize computer-controlled and automated equipment, which are subject to various risks, including software viruses, security breaches, power interruptions, or other system failures. if any of our distribution centers were to close or become inoperable or inaccessible for any reason, including pandemic diseases such as covid-19, or if we fail to successfully consolidate existing facilities or transition to new facilities, we could experience a substantial loss of inventory, disruption of deliveries to our customers and our stores, increased costs, and longer lead times associated with the distribution of products during the period that would be required to reopen or replace the facility. these disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we also rely upon third-party transportation providers for substantially all of our product shipments, including shipments to and from our distribution centers, to our stores and shop-within-shops, and to our digital commerce and wholesale customers. our utilization of these shipping services is subject to various risks, including, but not limited to, potential labor shortages (stemming from labor disputes, strikes, or otherwise), severe weather, and pandemic diseases, which could delay the timing of shipments, and increases in wages and fuel prices, which could result in higher transportation costs. any delays in the timing of our product shipments or increases in transportation costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 33 our business could be adversely affected by man-made or natural disasters and other catastrophic events in the locations in which we or our customers or suppliers operate. we have operations, including retail, distribution, and warehousing operations, in locations subject to man-made or natural disasters, including pandemic diseases such as covid-19, severe weather, geological events, and other catastrophic events, such as terrorist attacks and military conflict, any of which could disrupt our operations. in addition, our customers and suppliers also have operations in these locations and could experience similar disruptions. the occurrence of natural disasters or other catastrophic events may result in sudden disruptions in the business operations of the local economies affected, as well as of the regional and global economies. the occurrence of such events could also adversely affect financial markets and the availability of capital. in addition, our business can be affected by unseasonable weather conditions, such as extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures in the winter or unseasonably cold temperatures in the summer. any of these events could result in decreased demand for our products and disruptions in our sales channels and manufacturing and distribution networks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may result in volatility of our operating results. we are subject to income and non-income taxes in many u.s. and certain foreign jurisdictions, with the applicable tax rates varying by jurisdiction. we record tax expense based on our estimates of future payments, which include reserves for uncertain tax positions in multiple tax jurisdictions. at any given time, multiple tax years are subject to audit by various taxing authorities. the results of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may affect the ultimate settlement of these issues. as a result, we expect that throughout the year there could be ongoing variability in our quarterly tax rates as events occur and exposures are evaluated. our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may also be materially impacted by changes in the mix and level of earnings by jurisdiction or by changes to existing accounting rules. additionally, our products are subject to import and excise duties, and/or sales, consumption, value-added taxes ("vat"), and other non-income taxes in certain international jurisdictions. failure to correctly calculate or submit the appropriate amount of income or non-income taxes could subject us to substantial fines and penalties and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. in addition, the tax laws and regulations in the countries where we operate may change, such as the recently-enacted swiss tax act, or there may be changes in interpretation and enforcement of existing tax laws, which could materially affect our income tax expense in our consolidated financial statements. for a discussion of risks related to the potential imposition of additional regulations and laws, see " our ability to conduct business globally may be affected by a variety of legal, regulatory, political, and economic risks. " our business is exposed to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations. our business is exposed to foreign currency exchange risk. specifically, changes in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and other currencies impact our financial results from a transactional perspective, as our foreign operations generally purchase inventory in u.s. dollars, as is common for most apparel companies. given that we source most of our products overseas, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. changes in currency exchange rates may also impact consumers' willingness or ability to travel abroad and/or purchase our products while traveling, as well as affect the u.s. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated prices at which our international businesses sell products. additionally, the operating results and financial position of our international subsidiaries are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as their financial results are translated from the respective local currency into u.s. dollars during the financial statement consolidation process. the foreign currencies to which we are exposed to from a transactional and translational perspective primarily include the euro, the japanese yen, the south korean won, the australian dollar, the canadian dollar, the british pound sterling, the swiss franc, and the chinese renminbi. the expansion of our international business increases our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. although we hedge certain exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates arising in the ordinary course of business, we cannot fully anticipate all of our currency exposures and therefore foreign currency fluctuations may have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. in addition, factors that could impact the effectiveness of our hedging activities include the volatility of currency markets, the accuracy of forecasted transactions, and the availability of hedging instruments. as such, our hedging activities may not completely mitigate the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations. see item 7 " management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk management ." 34 our business is subject to risks associated with leasing real estate and other assets under long-term, non-cancellable leases. we generally operate most of our stores and corporate facilities under long-term, non-cancellable leasing arrangements. our retail store leases typically require us to make minimum rental payments, and often contingent rental payments based upon sales. in addition, our leases generally require us to pay our proportionate share of the cost of insurance, taxes, maintenance, and utilities. we generally cannot cancel our leases at our option. if we decide to close a store, or if we decide to downsize, consolidate, or relocate any of our corporate facilities, we may be required to record an impairment charge and/or exit costs associated with the disposal of the store or corporate facility. in addition, we may remain obligated under the applicable lease for, among other things, payment of the base rent for the remaining lease term, even after the space is exited or otherwise closed (such as our recent temporary store closures resulting from the covid-19 pandemic). such costs and obligations related to the early or temporary closure of our stores or termination of our leases could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. in addition, as each of our leases naturally expires, we may be unable to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could lead to store closures resulting in lost sales. the trading prices of our securities periodically may rise or fall based on the accuracy of predictions of our earnings or other financial performance, including our ability to return value to shareholders. our business planning process is designed to maximize our long-term strength, growth, and profitability, and not to achieve an earnings target in any particular fiscal quarter. we believe that this longer-term focus is in the best interests of our company and our stockholders. at the same time, however, we recognize that, from time to time, it may be helpful to provide investors with guidance as to our quarterly and annual forecast of net sales and earnings. while we generally expect to provide updates to our guidance when we report our results each fiscal quarter, we do not have any responsibility to update any of our guidance or other forward-looking statements at such times or otherwise. in addition, any longer-term guidance that we provide is based on goals that we believe, at the time guidance is given, are reasonably attainable. however, such long-range targets are more difficult to predict than our current quarter and full fiscal year expectations. additionally, external analysts and investors may publish their own independent predictions of our future performance. we do not endorse such predictions or assume any responsibility to correct such predictions when they differ from our own expectations. if, or when, we announce actual results that differ from those that have been predicted by us, outside analysts, or others, the market price of our securities could be adversely affected. investors who rely on these predictions when making investment decisions with respect to our securities do so at their own risk. we take no responsibility for any losses suffered as a result of such changes in the prices of our securities. in addition, we periodically return value to shareholders through our payment of quarterly cash dividends and common stock share repurchases. investors may have an expectation that we will continue to pay quarterly cash dividends, further increase our cash dividend rate, and/or repurchase shares available under our class a common stock repurchase program. our ability to pay quarterly cash dividends and repurchase our class a common stock will depend on our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future. this ability may be subject to certain economic, financial, competitive, and other factors that are beyond our control, such as impacts related to covid-19, which has resulted in us temporarily suspending our quarterly cash dividend and share repurchases during the crisis. further, our board of directors may, at its discretion, elect to suspend or otherwise alter these programs at any time. the market price of our securities could be adversely affected if our cash dividend payments and/or class a common stock share repurchase activity differ from investors' expectations. we may not fully realize the expected cost savings and/or operating efficiencies from our restructuring plans. we have implemented restructuring plans to support key strategic initiatives, such as the fiscal 2019 restructuring plan, as described in item 1 " business recent developments. " although designed to deliver long-term sustainable growth, restructuring plans present significant potential risks that may impair our ability to achieve anticipated operating enhancements and/or cost reductions, or otherwise harm our business, including: higher than anticipated costs in implementing planned workforce reductions, particularly in highly regulated locations outside the u.s.; higher than anticipated lease termination and store closure costs (see " our business is subject to risks associated with leasing real estate and other assets under long-term, non-cancellable leases "); failure to meet operational targets or customer requirements due to the loss of employees or inadequate transfer of knowledge; failure to maintain adequate controls and procedures while executing, and subsequent to completing, our restructuring plans; 35 diversion of management attention and resources from ongoing business activities and/or a decrease in employee morale; attrition beyond any planned reduction in workforce; and damage to our reputation and brand image due to our restructuring-related activities, including the closure of certain of our stores. if we are not successful in implementing and managing our restructuring plans, we may not be able to achieve targeted operating enhancements, sales growth, and/or cost reductions, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our failure to achieve targeted results for any reason, including the impact of the covid-19 pandemic, could also lead to the implementation of additional restructuring-related activities, which may be dilutive to our earnings in the short term. changes in our executive and senior management team may be disruptive to, or cause uncertainty in, our business. certain members of our executive and senior management team have departed in recent years, and we may implement other management and organizational changes in connection with our growth strategy. any changes in our executive and senior management team may be disruptive to, or cause uncertainty in, our business and future strategic direction. the departure of certain key individuals and the failure to ensure a smooth transition and effective transfer of knowledge involving senior employees could hinder or delay our strategic planning and execution, as well as adversely affect our ability to attract and retain other experienced and talented employees. further, our recent decision to furlough a significant portion of our employees in response to the covid-19 pandemic could disrupt our business operations and processes, as well as our ability to maintain an effective system of internal controls and compliance with the requirements under the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. any such disruption or uncertainty could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected outside the u.s. we believe that our trademarks, intellectual property, and other proprietary rights are extremely important to our success and our competitive position. we devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and anti-counterfeiting activities worldwide. however, significant counterfeiting and imitation of our products continue to exist. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect trademarks or other proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the u.s. and, as a result, our intellectual property may be more vulnerable and difficult to protect in such countries. over the course of our international expansion, we have experienced conflicts with various third parties that have acquired or claimed ownership rights to some of our key trademarks that include polo and/or a representation of a polo player astride a horse, or otherwise have contested our rights to our trademarks. we have resolved certain of these conflicts through both legal action and negotiated settlements. we cannot guarantee that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent counterfeiting, lost business, or brand dilution, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business. we expect to continue to devote substantial resources to challenge brands arising from imitation of our products. also, there can be no assurance that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of ours or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction or at all. see item 1 " business trademarks, " and item 3 " legal proceedings ." our business could suffer if we fail to comply with labor laws or if one of our manufacturers fails to use acceptable labor or environmental practices. we are subject to labor laws governing relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions, and citizenship requirements. compliance with these laws may lead to increased costs and operational complexity and may increase our exposure to governmental investigations or litigation. in addition, we require our licensing partners and independent manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. while our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices and our employees periodically visit and monitor the operations of our independent manufacturers, we do not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. the violation of labor, environmental, or other laws by an independent manufacturer used by us or one of our licensing partners, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer's or licensing partner's labor or environmental practices from those generally accepted as ethical or appropriate in the u.s., could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. any of these events, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 36 certain legal proceedings, regulatory matters, and accounting changes could adversely affect our business. we are involved in certain legal proceedings and regulatory matters and are subject from time to time to various claims involving alleged breach of contract claims, intellectual property and other related claims, escheatment and unclaimed property, credit card fraud, security breaches in certain of our retail store information systems, employment issues, consumer matters, and other litigation. certain of these lawsuits and claims, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, could result in material liability to our company or have a negative impact on our reputation or relations with our employees, customers, licensees, or other third parties. in addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, such proceedings could result in substantial costs and may require our company to devote substantial time and resources to defend itself. further, changes in governmental regulations both in the u.s. and in other countries where we conduct business operations could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. see item 3 " legal proceedings " for further discussion of our company's legal matters. in addition, we are subject to changes in accounting rules and interpretations issued by the financial accounting standards board and other regulatory agencies. if and when effective, such changes to accounting standards could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. see note 4 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a discussion of certain recently issued accounting standards. the voting shares of our company's stock are concentrated in one majority stockholder. as of march 28, 2020 , mr. ralph lauren, or entities controlled by the lauren family, held approximately 84% of the voting power of the outstanding common stock of our company. in addition, mr. r. lauren serves as our executive chairman and chief creative officer, mr. r. lauren's son, mr. david lauren, serves as our chief innovation officer, strategic advisor to the ceo, and vice chairman of the board of directors, and we employ other members of the lauren family. from time to time, we may have other business dealings with mr. r. lauren, members of the lauren family, or entities affiliated with mr. r. lauren or the lauren family. as a result of his stock ownership and position in our company, mr. r. lauren has the ability to exercise significant control over our business, including, without limitation, (i) the election of our class b common stock directors, voting separately as a class and (ii) any action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation and the approval of mergers or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. we rely on our licensing partners to preserve the value of our licenses. failure to maintain licensing partners could harm our business. the risks associated with our own products also apply to our licensed products in addition to any number of possible risks specific to a licensing partner's business, including risks associated with a particular licensing partner's ability to: obtain capital; execute its business plans; manage its labor relations; maintain relationships with its suppliers and customers; and manage its credit and bankruptcy risks effectively. although a number of our license agreements prohibit our licensing partners from entering into licensing arrangements with our competitors, our licensing partners generally are not precluded from offering, under other non-competitor brands, the types of products covered by their license agreements with us. a substantial portion of sales of our products by our domestic licensing partners are also made to our largest customers. while we have significant control over our licensing partners' products and advertising, we rely on our licensing partners for, among other things, operational and financial control over their businesses. changes in management, reduced sales of licensed products, poor execution, or financial difficulties with respect to any of our licensing partners could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. although we believe that we could replace our existing licensing partners in most circumstances, if necessary, our inability to do so for any period of time could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. see item 1 " business our licensing business. " 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. for a discussion of our exposure to market risk, see "market risk management" in item 7 included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors. there are risks associated with an investment in our securities. the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risk factors could materially adversely affect our business, our prospects, our results of operations, our financial condition, our liquidity, the trading prices of our securities, and/or the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently view as immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in future periods or if circumstances change. risks related to our business the loss of the services of mr. ralph lauren, members of our executive management or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. mr. ralph lauren leadership in the design, marketing and operational areas of our business has been a critical element of our success since the inception of our company. he is instrumental to, and closely identified with, our brand that bears his name. our ability to maintain our brand image and leverage the goodwill associated with mr. lauren name may be damaged if we were to lose his services. we depend on the service and management experience of mr. lauren and other key executive officers, who have substantial experience and expertise in our industry and our business. the death or disability of mr. lauren or other extended or permanent loss of his services, or any negative market or industry perception with respect to him or arising from his loss, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our other executive officers and other members of senior management have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our growth and success. the loss of the services of roger farah, our president and chief operating officer, or one or more of our other key personnel or the concurrent loss of several of these individuals could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are not protected by a material amount of key-man or similar life insurance covering mr. lauren, our other executive officers and certain other members of senior management. we have entered into employment agreements with mr. lauren and our other executive officers, but competition for experienced executives in our industry is intense and the non-compete period with respect to mr. lauren and certain other executive officers could, in some circumstances in the event of their termination of employment with our company, end prior to the employment term set forth in their employment agreements. our business could be negatively impacted by any financial instability of our customers. we sell our wholesale merchandise primarily to major department stores across the u.s. and canada, europe and asia and extend credit based on an evaluation of each customer financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. however, the financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail or eliminate business with that customer. we may also assume more credit risk relating to that customer receivables. in the aggregate, our three largest wholesale customers constituted approximately 25% of our gross trade accounts receivable outstanding as of march 31, 2012 and contributed approximately 40% of all wholesale revenues for fiscal 2012. our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or liquidity. see item 1 business wholesale credit control. uncertain economic conditions could have a negative impact on our major customers, suppliers and lenders, which in turn could materially adversely affect our operating results and liquidity. the uncertain state of the global economy continues to impact businesses around the world. the current political and economic global environment has resulted in continued economic unpredictability, particularly in europe where there are concerns regarding the increased debt levels of certain countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations, as well as the overall stability of the euro currency. although we believe that our cash provided by operations and available borrowing capacity under our credit facilities will provide us with sufficient liquidity through the current global economic uncertainty, the impact of economic conditions on our major customers, suppliers and lenders and their ability to access global capital markets cannot be predicted and may be 25 quite severe. the inability of major manufacturers to ship our products could impair our ability to meet the delivery date requirements of our customers. deterioration in global financial markets could increase the cost of any future financing or cause our lenders to be unable to meet their funding commitments under our credit facilities. a disruption in the ability of our significant customers to access liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their businesses which could lead to a significant reduction in their future orders of our products and the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and liquidity. we cannot assure the successful implementation of our growth strategy. as part of our growth strategy, we seek to extend our brands and merchandise categories, expand our geographic coverage and increase direct management of our brands by opening more of our own stores, strategically acquiring or integrating select businesses previously held by our licensees and enhancing our operations. implementation of our strategy involves the continued expansion of our business in asia, europe and other international areas. as discussed in item 1 business recent developments, in fiscal 2011, we acquired our previously licensed ralph lauren-branded apparel and accessories business in south korea. in fiscal 2010, we acquired our previously licensed ralph lauren-branded apparel business in the greater china and southeast asia region. we may have difficulty integrating acquired businesses into our operations, hiring and retaining qualified key employees, or otherwise successfully managing such expansion. furthermore, we may not be able to successfully integrate the business of any licensee that we acquire into our own business or achieve any expected cost savings or synergies from such integration. implementation of our growth strategy involves the continuation and expansion of our retail distribution network, including our e-commerce operations, on a global basis, which is subject to many factors beyond our control. we may not be able to procure, purchase or lease desirable free-standing or department store locations, or renew and maintain existing free-standing store leases and department store locations on acceptable terms, or secure suitable replacement locations. the lease negotiation, as well as the number and timing of new stores and shop-in-shop locations actually opened during any given period and their associated contribution to net income for the period, depends on a number of factors including, but not limited to: (i) the availability of suitable financing to us and our landlords; (ii) the timing of the delivery of the leased premises to us from our landlords in order to commence build-out construction activities; (iii) our ability and our landlords ability to obtain all necessary governmental licenses and permits to construct and operate our stores on a timely basis; (iv) our ability to manage the construction and development costs of new stores; (v) the rectification of any unforeseen engineering or environmental problems with the leased premises; (vi) adverse weather during the construction period; and (vii) the hiring and training of qualified operating personnel in the local market. while we continue to explore new markets and are always evaluating new potential locations, any of the above factors could have an adverse impact on our financial operations. further, as we continue to expand and increase the global presence of our e-commerce business, sales from our brick and mortar stores in areas where e-commerce sites are introduced may decline due to cannibalization. in europe, we lack the large wholesale distribution channels we have in the u.s., and we may have difficulty developing and maintaining successful distribution strategies and alliances in certain of the major european countries. in asia, our primary mode of distribution is via a network of shops located within leading department stores. as we do not yet have significant experience in operating a direct-to-consumer business in this region and face established competitors, we may have difficulty in successfully retaining this network, and expanding into alternate distribution channels. in addition, certain of the international countries in which we operate, particularly in asia, have unique operational characteristics that vary from the u.s., including but not limited to employment and labor, transportation, logistics, real estate and legal requirements, which may pose challenges to the execution and success of our related growth strategies. further, macroeconomic trends may not be favorable, and could limit our ability to implement our growth strategies in select geographies where we have foreign operations, such as europe and asia. achievement of our growth strategy requires investment in new capabilities, distribution channels and technologies worldwide. these investments may result in short-term costs without accompanying current revenues 26 and therefore, may be dilutive to our earnings in the short term. in addition, we may continue to incur costs in connection with repositioning our business in certain geographic areas, including in the asia-pacific region. although we believe that our strategy will lead to long-term growth in revenue and profitability, the anticipated benefits may not be fully realized. a data security or privacy breach could damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers, expose us to litigation risk and adversely affect our business. we are dependent on information technology systems and networks, including the internet, for a significant portion of our direct-to-consumer sales, including our e-commerce operations and retail business credit card transaction authorization and processing. we are also responsible for storing data relating to our customers and employees and rely on third parties for the operation of our e-commerce websites and for the various social media tools and websites we use as part of our marketing strategy. as part of our normal course of business, we often collect, retain, and transmit certain sensitive and confidential customer information, including credit card information, over public networks. there is a significant concern by consumers and employees over the security of personal information transmitted over the internet, consumer identity theft and user privacy. despite the security measures we currently have in place, our facilities and systems and those of our third party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other similar events. any electronic or physical security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential or personally identifiable information, including penetration of our network security, whether by us or by a third-party, could disrupt our business, severely damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers, expose us to risks of litigation and liability and adversely affect our business and results of operations. since we do not control third-party service providers and cannot guarantee that no electronic or physical computer break-ins and security breaches will occur in the future, any perceived or actual unauthorized disclosure of personally identifiable information regarding our customers or website visitors could harm our reputation and credibility, reduce our e-commerce net sales, impair our ability to attract website visitors and reduce our ability to attract and retain customers. we may also incur significant costs in complying with the various applicable state, federal and foreign laws regarding unauthorized disclosure of personal information. our business could suffer if our computer systems and websites are disrupted or cease to operate effectively. we are dependent on our computer systems to record and process transactions and manage and operate our business, including in designing, marketing, manufacturing, importing, tracking and distributing our products, processing payments, and accounting for and reporting results. we also utilize an automated replenishment system to facilitate the processing of basic replenishment orders from our retail segment and our wholesale customers, the movement of goods through distribution channels, and the collection of information for planning and forecasting. in addition, we have e-commerce and other internet websites in the u.s. and europe and have plans for new e-commerce sites in asia and other parts of the world. given the complexity of our business and the significant number of transactions that we engage in on an annual basis, it is imperative that we maintain constant operation of our computer hardware and software systems. despite our preventative efforts, our systems are vulnerable from time to time to damage or interruption from, among other things, security breaches, computer viruses or power outages. any material disruptions in our information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. implementation of management information systems may negatively impact our business. we are continually improving and upgrading our computer systems and software. we are in the process of implementing a new global operating and financial reporting system as part of a multi-year plan to integrate and upgrade our operational and financial systems and processes. the implementation of this global system, scheduled to occur in phases over the next several years, began with the migration of certain of our domestic human resource systems during fiscal 2011 and continued with transition of certain of our operational and financial systems to the new global operating and financial reporting system during fiscal 2012. the next phase of this implementation effort involves the migration of certain core areas of our domestic business to the new system, including customer order-to-cash settlement and global merchandise procurement, during fiscal 2013. 27 implementation of a new management information system involves risks and uncertainties. any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design or implementation of a new system, such as the new global operating and financial reporting system currently being implemented, could result in increased costs, disruptions in the sourcing and shipment of our product and delays in the collection of cash from our customers, as well as have an adverse effect on our ability to timely report our financial results, all of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business is subject to risks associated with importing products and could suffer as a result of increases in the price of raw materials, freight or labor or a manufacturer inability to produce our goods on time and to our specifications. we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and depend exclusively on independent third parties for the manufacture of all of our products. our products are manufactured to our specifications through arrangements with over 600 foreign manufacturers in various countries. in fiscal 2012, over 98%, by dollar value, of our products were produced outside the u.s., primarily in asia, europe and south america. risks inherent in importing our products include: changes in social, political and economic conditions or terrorist acts that could result in the disruption of trade from the countries in which our manufacturers or suppliers are located; the imposition of additional regulations relating to imports or exports; the imposition of additional duties, taxes and other charges on imports or exports; significant fluctuations of the cost of raw materials; increases in the cost of labor, fuel, travel and transportation; disruptions of shipping and international trade caused by natural and man-made disasters; significant delays in the delivery of cargo due to security considerations; the imposition of antidumping or countervailing duty proceedings resulting in the potential assessment of special antidumping or countervailing duties; and the imposition of sanctions in the form of additional duties either by the u.s. or its trading partners to remedy perceived illegal actions by national governments. any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, the inability of a manufacturer to ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items, which could result in cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a substantial reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. prices of raw materials used to manufacture our products may also fluctuate and increases in prices of such raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales. furthermore, the cost of labor at many of our third-party manufacturers has been increasing significantly and, as the middle class in developing countries such as china continues to grow, it is unlikely that such cost pressure will abate. the cost of transportation has been increasing as well and it is unlikely that such cost pressure will abate if oil prices continue to rise and there is continued significant unrest in the middle east. we may not be able to offset such increases in raw materials, freight or labor costs through pricing actions or other means. our profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. our industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer spending patterns. these factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, which could cause our gross margin to decline if we are unable to appropriately manage inventory levels and/or otherwise offset price reductions with comparable reductions in our operating costs. if our sales prices decline and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, our profitability will decline. this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. 28 our business is exposed to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations. we generally purchase our products in u.s. dollars. however, we source most of our products overseas. as a result, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the u.s. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated prices at which our international businesses sell products. furthermore, our international sales are primarily derived from sales in foreign currencies, as is a portion of our licensing revenues. these foreign currencies primarily include the euro, the japanese yen, the hong kong dollar, the south korean won, the canadian dollar, and the british pound sterling, and this revenue could be materially affected by currency fluctuations. although we hedge certain exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates arising in the ordinary course of business, we cannot fully anticipate all of our currency exposures and therefore foreign currency fluctuations may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, factors that could impact the effectiveness of our hedging activities include the volatility of currency markets, the accuracy of forecasted transactions and the availability of hedging instruments. as such, our hedging activities may not completely mitigate the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations. see item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk managemen t. fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may result in volatility of our operating results and stock price. we are subject to income taxes in many u.s. and certain foreign jurisdictions. we record tax expense based on our estimates of future payments, which include reserves for uncertain tax positions in multiple tax jurisdictions. at any one time, multiple tax years are subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. the results of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may affect the ultimate settlement of these issues. as a result, we expect that throughout the year there could be ongoing variability in our quarterly tax rates as events occur and exposures are evaluated. in addition, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be materially impacted by changes in the mix and level of earnings by jurisdiction or by changes to existing accounting rules or regulations. we have significant undistributed earnings held by our subsidiaries outside the u.s. we currently intend to reinvest the cash and cash equivalents arising from these earnings in order to fund strategic initiatives, working capital requirements and debt repayments (both third party and intercompany) of such foreign subsidiaries. any future repatriation of such amounts to the u.s. could result in a significant incremental tax liability in the period in which the decision to repatriate is made. our company has an exclusive relationship with certain customers for some of our products. the loss or significant decline in business of these customers could negatively impact our business. we have exclusive relationships with certain customers for distribution of some of our products, including with kohl corporation ( kohl ) for our chaps products. our arrangement with kohl makes us dependent on the company financial and operational health for such products. the loss of this relationship could have an adverse effect on our wholesale business. our business could suffer as a result of consolidations, liquidations, restructurings and other ownership changes in the retail industry. several of our department store customers, including some under common ownership, account for significant portions of our wholesale net sales. a substantial portion of sales of our licensed products by our domestic licensing partners are also made to our largest department store customers. in the aggregate, our three largest wholesale customers accounted for approximately 40% of our wholesale net sales during fiscal 2012. there can be no assurance that consolidations, restructurings, reorganizations or other ownership changes in the department store sector will not have a material adverse effect on our wholesale business. we typically do not enter into long-term agreements with our customers. instead, we enter into a number of purchase order commitments with our customers for each of our lines every season. a decision by the controlling owner of a group of stores or any other significant customer, whether motivated by competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease or eliminate the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing partners; or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing partners or their new strategic and 29 operational initiatives, including their continued focus on further development of their private label initiatives, could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. certain legal proceedings, regulatory matters and accounting changes could adversely impact our results of operations. we are involved in certain legal proceedings and regulatory matters and are subject from time to time to various claims involving alleged breach of contract claims, intellectual property and other related claims, credit card fraud, security breaches in certain of our retail store information systems, employment issues, consumer matters and other litigations. certain of these lawsuits and claims, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, could result in material liability to our company or have a negative impact on our reputation or relations with our employees, customers, licensees or other third parties. in addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, such proceedings could result in substantial costs and may require that our company devotes substantial time and resources to defend itself. further, changes in governmental regulations both in the u.s., including potential changes in state laws regarding the escheatment of unredeemed gift cards, and in other countries where we conduct business operations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. see item 3 legal proceedings for further discussion of our company legal matters. in addition, we are subject to changes in accounting rules and interpretations. the financial accounting standards board is currently in the process of amending a number of existing accounting standards governing a variety of areas. certain of these proposed standards, particularly the proposed standard governing accounting for leases, if and when effective, would likely have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. see note 4 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements for further discussion of proposed amendments to current accounting standards. our ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets is subject to risks associated with international operations. these include: the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, including trade and labor restrictions; compliance with u.s. and other country laws relating to foreign operations, including the foreign corrupt practices act, which prohibits u.s. companies from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and the u.k. bribery act, which prohibits u.k. and related companies from any form of bribery; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and new tariffs or other barriers in some international markets. we are also subject to general political and economic risks in connection with our international operations, including: political instability and terrorist attacks; changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets. we cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, or other similar restrictions will be imposed by the u.s., the european union, asia, or other countries upon the import or export of our products in the future, or what effect any of these actions would have, if any, on our business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in regulatory, geopolitical, social or economic policies and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our business in the future or may require us to exit a particular market or significantly modify our current business practices. 30 our results of operations could be affected by natural events in the locations in which we or our customers or suppliers operate. we have operations, including retail, distribution and warehousing operations, in locations subject to natural disasters such as severe weather and geological events that could disrupt our operations. in addition, our suppliers and customers also have operations in these locations. the occurrence of natural events may result in sudden disruptions in business conditions of the local economies affected, as well as of the regional and global economies. such disruptions could result in decreased demand for our products and disruptions in our sales channels and manufacturing and distribution networks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected outside the u.s. we believe that our trademarks, intellectual property and other proprietary rights are extremely important to our success and our competitive position. we devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and anti-counterfeiting activities worldwide. significant counterfeiting of our products continues, however, and in the course of our international expansion we have experienced conflicts with various third parties that have acquired or claimed ownership rights in some trademarks that include polo and/or a representation of a polo player astride a horse, or otherwise have contested our rights to our trademarks. we have in the past resolved certain of these conflicts through both legal action and negotiated settlements, none of which, we believe, has had a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. we cannot guarantee that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent counterfeiting or a material adverse effect on our business or brands arising from imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and proprietary rights of others. also, there can be no assurance that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of ours or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction or at all. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect trademarks or other proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the u.s. and, as a result, our intellectual property may be more vulnerable and difficult to protect in such countries. see item 1 business trademarks, and item 3 legal proceedings. our business could suffer if one of our manufacturers fails to use acceptable labor or environmental practices. we require our licensing partners and independent manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. while our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices and our staff periodically visits and monitors the operations of our independent manufacturers, we do not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. the violation of labor, environmental or other laws by an independent manufacturer used by us or one of our licensing partners, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer or licensing partner labor or environmental practices from those generally accepted as ethical or appropriate in the u.s., could interrupt, or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. any of these, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business could suffer if we need to replace manufacturers or distribution centers. we compete with other companies for the production capacity of our manufacturers. some of these competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have, and thus may have an advantage in the competition for production. if we experience a significant increase in demand, or if an existing manufacturer of ours must be replaced, we may have to expand our third-party manufacturing capacity. we cannot guarantee that this additional capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us. see item 1 business sourcing, production and quality. we enter into a number of purchase order commitments each season specifying a time for delivery, method of payment, design and quality specifications and other standard industry provisions, but do not have long-term contracts with any manufacturer. none of the manufacturers we use produce our products exclusively. in addition, we rely on a number of owned and independently-operated distribution facilities around the world to warehouse and ship products to our customers and perform other related logistic services. as such, our ability to 31 meet the needs of our customers depends on the proper operation of our distribution centers. if any of our distribution centers were closed or were to become inoperable for any reason, we could experience a substantial loss of inventory, disruption of deliveries to our customers and our retail stores, increased costs, and longer lead times associated with the distribution of products during the period that would be required to reopen or replace the facility. these disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we rely on our licensing partners to preserve the value of our licenses. the risks associated with our own products also apply to our licensed products in addition to any number of possible risks specific to a licensing partner business, including, for example, risks associated with a particular licensing partner ability to: obtain capital; manage its labor relations; maintain relationships with its suppliers; manage its credit and bankruptcy risks effectively; and maintain relationships with its customers. although a number of our license agreements prohibit our licensing partners from entering into licensing arrangements with our competitors, our licensing partners generally are not precluded from offering, under other non-competitor brands, the types of products covered by their license agreements with us. a substantial portion of sales of our products by our domestic licensing partners are also made to our largest customers. while we have significant control over our licensing partners products and advertising, we rely on our licensing partners for, among other things, operational and financial control over their businesses. changes in management, reduced sales of licensed products, poor execution or financial difficulties with respect to any of our licensing partners could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. see item 1 business our licensing segment. failure to maintain licensing partners could harm our business. although we believe in most circumstances we could replace existing licensing partners if necessary, our inability to do so for any period of time could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. see item 1 business our licensing segment. the voting shares of our company stock are concentrated in one majority stockholder. as of march 31, 2012, mr. ralph lauren, or entities controlled by the lauren family, owned approximately 73% of the voting power of the outstanding common stock of our company. mr. lauren also serves as our chairman and chief executive officer, and we employ members of the lauren family. from time to time, and as approved or authorized by our board of directors, we may have other business dealings with mr. lauren, or members of the lauren family or entities affiliated with mr. lauren or the lauren family. as a result of his stock ownership and position in our company, mr. lauren has the ability to exercise significant control over our business, including, without limitation, (i) the election of our class b common stock directors, voting separately as a class, and (ii) any action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation and the approval of mergers or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. the trading prices of our securities periodically may rise or fall based on the accuracy of predictions of our earnings or other financial performance. our business planning process is designed to maximize our long-term strength, growth and profitability, not to achieve an earnings target in any particular fiscal quarter. we believe that this longer-term focus is in the best interests of our company and our stockholders. at the same time, however, we recognize that from time to time it may be helpful to provide investors with guidance as to our quarterly and annual forecast of net sales and earnings. while we generally expect to provide updates to our guidance when we report our results each fiscal quarter, we 32 assume no responsibility to update any of our forward-looking statements at such times or otherwise. if and when we announce actual results that differ from those that have been predicted by us, outside analysts or others, the market price of our securities could be affected. investors who rely on the predictions when making investment decisions with respect to our securities do so at their own risk. we take no responsibility for any losses suffered as a result of such changes in the prices of our securities. risks relating to the industry in which we compete the downturn in the global economy may continue to affect consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, which could adversely affect our sales. the industries in which we operate are cyclical. many economic factors outside of our control affect the level of consumer spending in the apparel, cosmetic, fragrance, accessories, jewelry, watches, and home products industries, including, among others: general business conditions; economic downturns; employment levels; downturns in the stock market; interest rates; the housing market; consumer debt levels; the availability of consumer credit; increases in fuel prices; taxation; and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, including our products, tend to decline during recessionary periods and at other times when disposable income is lower. a downturn or an uncertain outlook in the economies in which we, or our licensing partners, sell our products may materially adversely affect our businesses and our revenues and profits. see item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations global economic developments for further discussion. the domestic and international political situation also affects consumer confidence. the threat, outbreak or escalation of terrorism, military conflicts or other hostilities could lead to a decrease in consumer spending and may materially adversely affect our business, revenues and profits. we face intense competition worldwide in the markets in which we operate. we face intense competition from other domestic and foreign fashion-oriented apparel, footwear, accessories and casual apparel producers, some of which may be significantly larger and more diversified and have greater financial and marketing resources than us. we compete with these companies primarily on the basis of: anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; creating and maintaining favorable brand recognition, loyalty and reputation for quality; developing and maintaining innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors and styles that appeal to consumers; appropriately sourcing raw materials at cost-effective prices; appropriately pricing products; anticipating and maintaining proper inventory levels; 33 providing strong and effective marketing support; retaining and recruiting key employees; creating an acceptable value proposition for retail customers; ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain efficiencies with manufacturers and retailers; obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at retail stores; maintaining and growing market share; and protecting our intellectual property. we also face increasing competition from companies selling apparel, accessories (including footwear), home and other of our product categories through the internet. although we sell our products through the internet, increased competition in the worldwide apparel, accessories and home product industries from internet-based competitors could reduce our sales, prices and margins and adversely affect our results of operations. any increased competition, or our failure to adequately address any of these competitive factors, could result in reduced market share or sales, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the success of our business depends on our ability to respond to constantly changing fashion and retail trends and consumer demands in a timely manner. the industries in which we operate have historically been subject to rapidly changing fashion trends and consumer preferences. our success depends in large part on our ability to originate and define fashion product and home product trends, as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers worldwide whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change, influenced by fashion trends, current economic conditions and weather conditions, among other factors. we cannot assure that we will be able to continue to develop appealing styles or successfully meet constantly changing consumer demands in the future. in addition, we cannot assure that any new products or brands that we introduce will be successfully received by consumers. any failure on our part to anticipate, identify and respond effectively to changing consumer demands and fashion trends could adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of our products and leave us with a substantial amount of unsold inventory or missed opportunities. if that occurs, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess, slow-moving inventory, which may harm our business and impair the image of our brands. conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if manufacturers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages, which may result in unfilled orders, negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty and result in lost revenues. any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. see item 1 business sourcing, production and quality. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. for a discussion of our exposure to market risk, see market risk management in item 7 included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. 67