risk factors 11 risk factors for additional information. customers, strategic alliances and preferred provider relationships our customers include electric power, natural gas, oil, telecommunications and cable television companies, as well as commercial, industrial and governmental entities. our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 32% of our consolidated revenues during the year ended december 31, 2009. our largest customer accounted for approximately 5% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended december 31, 2009. although we have a centralized marketing strategy, management at each of our operating units is responsible for developing and maintaining successful long-term relationships with customers. our operating unit management teams build upon existing customer relationships to secure additional projects and increase revenue from our current customer base. many of these customer relationships originated decades ago and are maintained through a partnering approach to account management that includes project evaluation and consulting, quality performance, performance measurement and direct customer contact. on an operating unit level, management maintains a parallel focus on pursuing growth opportunities with prospective customers. we continue to encourage operating unit management to cross-sell services of other operating units to their customers. in addition, our business development group promotes and markets our services for prospective large national accounts and projects that would require services from multiple operating units. we strive to maintain our status as a preferred vendor to our customers. many of our customers and prospective customers maintain a list of preferred vendors with whom the customer enters into a formal contractual agreement as a result of a request-for-proposal process. as a preferred vendor, we have met minimum standards for a specific category of service, maintain a high level of performance and agree to certain payment terms and negotiated rates. we believe that our strategic relationships with customers in the electric power, natural gas, oil and telecommunications industries will continue to result in future opportunities. many of these strategic relationships take the form of a strategic alliance or long-term maintenance agreement. strategic alliance agreements generally state an intention to work together, and many provide us with preferential bidding procedures. strategic alliances and long-term maintenance agreements are typically agreements for an initial term of approximately two to four years that may include an option to add extensions at the end of the initial term. certain of our strategic alliance and long-term maintenance agreements are evergreen contracts with exclusivity clauses providing that we will be awarded all contracts, or giving us a right of first refusal for contracts, for a certain type of work or work in a certain geographic region. backlog backlog represents the amount of revenue that we expect to realize from work to be performed in the future on uncompleted contracts, including new contractual agreements on which work has not begun. the backlog estimates include amounts under long-term maintenance contracts in addition to construction contracts. we determine the amount of backlog for work under long-term maintenance contracts, or master service agreements (msas), by using recurring historical trends inherent in the current msas, factoring in seasonal demand and projected customer needs based upon ongoing communications with the customer. we also include in backlog our share of work to be performed under contracts signed by joint ventures in which we have an ownership interest. the following tables 6 table of contents present our total backlog by reportable segment as of december 31, 2009 and 2008 along with an estimate of the backlog amounts expected to be realized within 12 months of each balance sheet date (in $000 s): backlog as of backlog as of december 31, 2009 december 31, 2008 12 month total 12 month total electric power infrastructure services $ 1,312,141 $ 3,855,320 $ 1,629,474 $ 3,556,191 natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services 847,702 1,120,795 584,602 847,641 telecommunications infrastructure services 222,999 285,295 290,846 406,831 fiber optic licensing 87,786 387,373 72,378 381,907 total $ 2,470,628 $ 5,648,783 $ 2,577,300 $ 5,192,570 information quantifying our backlog by reportable segment was not captured for the 2007 period; however, our total backlog at december 31, 2007 was approximately $4.67 billion, of which the 12 month backlog was approximately $2.36 billion. as discussed above, our backlog estimates include amounts under msas. in many instances, our customers are not contractually committed to specific volumes of services under our msas, and many of our contracts may be terminated with notice. there can be no assurance as to our customers requirements or that our estimates are accurate. in addition, many of our msas, as well as contracts for fiber optic licensing, are subject to renewal options. for purposes of calculating backlog, we have included future renewal options only to the extent the renewals can reasonably be expected to occur. competition the markets in which we operate are highly competitive. we compete with other contractors in most of the geographic markets in which we operate, and several of our competitors are large domestic companies that have significant financial, technical and marketing resources. in addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry into some of the industries in which we operate and, as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become a competitor. a significant portion of our revenues is currently derived from unit price or fixed price agreements, and price is often an important factor in the award of such agreements. accordingly, we could be underbid by our competitors in an effort by them to procure such business. the current economic environment has increased the impacts of competitive pricing in certain of the markets that we serve. we believe that as demand for our services increases, customers will increasingly consider other factors in choosing a service provider, including technical expertise and experience, financial and operational resources, nationwide presence, industry reputation and dependability, which we expect to benefit larger contractors such as us. there can be no assurance, however, that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services, or that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position. we also face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers, including electric power, natural gas and pipeline, telecommunications, cable television and engineering companies, which employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services as those provided by us. although a significant portion of these services is currently outsourced by our customers, in particular relating to larger energy transmission infrastructure projects, there can be no assurance that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource services in the future. employees as of december 31, 2009, we had 2,260 salaried employees, including executive officers, professional and administrative staff, project managers and engineers, job superintendents and clerical personnel, and 12,413 hourly employees, the number of which fluctuates depending upon the number and size of the projects we undertake at any particular time. approximately 44% of our hourly employees at december 31, 2009 were covered by collective bargaining agreements, primarily with the international brotherhood of electrical workers (ibew) and the four pipeline construction trade unions administered by the pipe line contractors association (plca), which are the 7 table of contents laborers international union of north america, international brotherhood of teamsters, united association of plumbers and pipefitters and the international union of operating engineers. these collective bargaining agreements require the payment of specified wages to our union employees, the observance of certain workplace rules and the payment of certain amounts to multi-employer pension plans and employee benefit trusts rather than administering the funds on behalf of these employees. these collective bargaining agreements have varying terms and expiration dates. the majority of the collective bargaining agreements contain provisions that prohibit work stoppages or strikes, even during specified negotiation periods relating to agreement renewal, and provide for binding arbitration dispute resolution in the event of prolonged disagreement. we provide health, welfare and benefit plans for employees who are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. we have a 401(k) plan pursuant to which eligible employees who are not provided retirement benefits through a collective bargaining agreement may make contributions through a payroll deduction. we make matching cash contributions of 100% of each employee contribution up to 3% of that employee salary and 50% of each employee contribution between 3% and 6% of such employee salary, up to the maximum amount permitted by law. our industry is experiencing a shortage of journeyman linemen in certain geographic areas. in response to the shortage, we seek to take advantage of various ibew and national electrical contractors association (neca) training programs and support the joint ibew/neca apprenticeship program which trains qualified electrical workers. we have also established apprenticeship training programs approved by the u.s. department of labor for employees not subject to the ibew/neca apprenticeship program, as well as additional company-wide and project-specific employee training and educational programs. we believe our relationships with our employees and union representatives are good. materials our customers typically supply most or all of the materials required for each job. however, for some of our contracts, we may procure all or part of the materials required. we purchase such materials from a variety of sources and do not anticipate experiencing any significant difficulties in procuring such materials. training, quality assurance and safety performance of our services requires the use of equipment and exposure to conditions that can be dangerous. although we are committed to a policy of operating safely and prudently, we have been and will continue to be subject to claims by employees, customers and third parties for property damage and personal injuries resulting from performance of our services. our operating units have established comprehensive safety policies, procedures and regulations and require that employees complete prescribed training and service programs prior to performing more sophisticated and technical jobs, which is in addition to those programs required, if applicable, by the ibew/neca apprenticeship program, the training programs sponsored by the four trade unions administered by the plca or our equivalent programs. under the ibew/neca apprenticeship program, all journeyman linemen are required to complete a minimum of 7,000 hours of on-the-job training, approximately 200 hours of classroom education and extensive testing and certification. certain of our operating units have established apprenticeship training programs approved by the u.s. department of labor that prescribe equivalent training requirements for employees who are not otherwise subject to the requirements of the ibew/neca apprenticeship program. in addition, the laborers international union of north america, international brotherhood of teamsters, united association of plumbers and pipefitters and the international union of operating engineers have training programs specifically designed for developing and improving the skills of their members who work in the pipeline construction industry. our operating units also benefit from sharing best practices regarding their training and educational programs and comprehensive safety policies and regulations. regulation our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws and regulations including: licensing, permitting and inspection requirements applicable to electricians and engineers; 8 table of contents building and electrical codes; permitting and inspection requirements applicable to construction projects; regulations relating to worker safety and environmental protection; telecommunication regulations affecting our fiber optic licensing business; and special bidding, procurement and other requirements on government projects. we believe that we have all the licenses required to conduct our operations and that we are in substantial compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating licenses. environmental matters and climate change impacts we are committed to the protection of the environment and train our employees to perform their duties accordingly. we are subject to numerous federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations governing our operations, including the handling, transportation and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous substances and wastes, as well as emissions and discharges into the environment, including discharges to air, surface water and groundwater and soil. we also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and cleanup responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. under certain of these laws and regulations, such liabilities can be imposed for cleanup of previously owned or operated properties, or properties to which hazardous substances or wastes were sent by current or former operations at our facilities, regardless of whether we directly caused the contamination or violated any law at the time of discharge or disposal. the presence of contamination from such substances or wastes could interfere with ongoing operations or adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or use our properties as collateral for financing. in addition, we could be held liable for significant penalties and damages under certain environmental laws and regulations and also could be subject to a revocation of our licenses or permits, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. from time to time, we may incur costs and obligations for correcting environmental noncompliance matters and for remediation at or relating to certain of our properties. we believe that we are in substantial compliance with our environmental obligations to date and that any such obligations will not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial performance. the potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain. climate change may result in, among other things, changing rainfall patterns, changing storm patterns and intensities and changing temperature levels. as discussed below, our operating results are significantly influenced by weather. therefore, significant changes in historical weather patterns could significantly impact our future operating results. for example, if climate change results in drier weather and more accommodating temperatures over a greater period of time in a given period, we may be able to increase our productivity, which could have a positive impact on our revenues and gross margins. in addition, if climate change results in an increase in severe weather, such as hurricanes and ice storms, we could experience a greater amount of higher margin emergency restoration service work, which generally has a positive impact on our gross margins. conversely, if climate change results in a greater amount of rainfall, snow, ice or other less accommodating weather over a greater period of time in a given period, we could experience reduced productivity, which could negatively impact our revenues and gross margins. risk management and insurance we are insured for employer liability, general liability, auto liability and workers compensation claims. as of august 1, 2009, we renewed our employer liability, general liability, auto liability and workers compensation policies for the current 2009 to 2010 policy year. as a result of the renewal, the deductibles for all policies have increased to $5.0 million per occurrence, other than employer liability which is subject to a deductible of $1.0 million. additionally, in connection with this renewal, the amount of letters of credit required by us to secure our obligations under our casualty insurance program, which is discussed further below, has increased. we also have 9 table of contents employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $350,000 per claimant per year. for the policy year ended july 31, 2009, employer liability claims were subject to a deductible of $1.0 million per occurrence, general liability and auto liability claims were subject to a deductible of $3.0 million per occurrence, and workers compensation claims were subject to a deductible of $2.0 million per occurrence. additionally, for the same period, our workers compensation claims were subject to an annual cumulative aggregate liability of up to $1.0 million on claims in excess of $2.0 million per occurrence. our deductibles have varied in periods prior to august 1, 2008. losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimate of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. these insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety program. the accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals to be adequate. as of december 31, 2008 and 2009, the gross amount accrued for insurance claims totaled $147.9 million and $153.6 million, with $105.0 million and $109.8 million considered to be long-term and included in other non-current liabilities. related insurance recoveries/receivables as of december 31, 2008 and 2009 were $12.5 million and $33.7 million, of which $7.2 million and $13.4 million are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $5.3 million and $20.3 million are included in other assets, net. we renew our insurance policies on an annual basis, and therefore deductibles and levels of insurance coverage may change in future periods. in addition, insurers may cancel our coverage or determine to exclude certain items from coverage, or the cost to obtain such coverage may become unreasonable. in any such event, our overall risk exposure would increase, which could have a material adverse impact on our business or financial performance. seasonality and cyclicality our revenues and results of operations can be subject to seasonal and other variations. these variations are influenced by weather, customer spending patterns, bidding seasons, project schedules and timing and holidays. typically, our revenues are lowest in the first quarter of the year because cold, snowy or wet conditions cause delays. the second quarter is typically better than the first, as some projects begin, but continued cold and wet weather can often impact second quarter productivity. the third quarter is typically the best of the year, as a greater number of projects are underway and weather is more accommodating to work on projects. revenues during the fourth quarter of the year are typically lower than the third quarter but higher than the second quarter. many projects are completed in the fourth quarter and revenues often are impacted positively by customers seeking to spend their capital budget before the end of the year; however, the holiday season and inclement weather sometimes can cause delays and thereby reduce revenues and increase costs. working capital needs are generally higher during the summer and fall months due to increased construction activity in weather affected regions of the country. conversely, working capital assets are typically converted to cash during the winter months. additionally, our industry can be highly cyclical. as a result, our volume of business may be adversely affected by declines or delays in new projects in various geographic regions in the united states. project schedules, in particular in connection with larger, longer-term projects, can also create fluctuations in the services provided, which may adversely affect us in a given period. the financial condition of our customers and their access to capital, variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular period, regional, national and global economic and market conditions, timing of acquisitions, the timing and magnitude of acquisition assimilation costs, interest rate fluctuations and other factors may also materially affect our periodic results. accordingly, our operating results for any particular period may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other period. an investor should read understanding gross margins and outlook included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for additional discussion of trends and challenges that may affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. website access and other information our website address is www.quantaservices.com. you may obtain free electronic copies of our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to these 10 table of contents reports through our website under the heading sec filings or through the website of the securities and exchange commission (the sec) at www.sec.gov. these reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the sec. in addition, our corporate governance guidelines, code of ethics and business conduct and the charters of our audit committee, compensation committee and governance and nominating committee are posted on our website under the heading corporate governance. we intend to disclose on our website any amendments or waivers to our code of ethics and business conduct that are required to be disclosed pursuant to item 5.05 of form 8-k. you may obtain free copies of these items from our website or by contacting our corporate secretary. this annual report on form 10-k and our website contain information provided by other sources that we believe are reliable. we cannot assure you that the information obtained from other sources is accurate or complete. no information on our website is incorporated by reference herein. item 1a. risk factors our business is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described below. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below also may impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected and we may not be able to achieve our goals or expectations. this annual report on form 10-k also includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended as forward-looking statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and should be read in conjunction with the section entitled uncertainty of forward-looking statements and information included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. our business can be highly cyclical and subject to seasonal and other variations that can result in significant differences in operating results from quarter to quarter. for example, we typically experience lower gross and operating margins during winter months due to lower demand for our services and more difficult operating conditions. additionally, our quarterly results may be materially and adversely affected by: variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular quarter; unfavorable regional, national or global economic and market conditions; a reduction in the demand for our services; the budgetary spending patterns of customers; increases in construction and design costs; the timing and volume of work we perform; the effects of adverse or favorable weather conditions; the termination or expiration of existing agreements; losses experienced in our operations not otherwise covered by insurance; a change in the mix of our customers, contracts and business; payment risk associated with the financial condition of our customers; changes in bonding and lien requirements applicable to existing and new agreements; implementation of various information systems, which could temporarily disrupt day-to-day operations; the recognition of tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions; permitting, regulatory or customer caused delays; 11 table of contents decreases in interest rates we receive on our cash and cash equivalents; changes in accounting pronouncements that require us to account for items differently than historical pronouncements have; costs we incur to support growth internally or through acquisitions or otherwise; the timing and integration of acquisitions and the magnitude of the related acquisition and integration costs; and the timing and significance of potential impairments of long-lived assets, goodwill or other intangible assets. accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that you can expect for any other quarter or for the entire year. the ongoing economic downturn and instability in the financial markets may adversely impact our customers future spending as well as payment for our services and, as a result, our operations and growth. the u.s. economy is still recovering from the recent recession, and growth in economic activity has slowed substantially. the financial markets also have not fully recovered. it is uncertain when these conditions will significantly improve. stagnant or declining economic conditions have adversely impacted the demand for our services and resulted in the delay, reduction or cancellation of certain projects and may continue to adversely affect us in the future. additionally, our customers may finance their projects through the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. the availability of credit remains constrained, and many of our customers equity values have not fully recovered from the negative impact of the recession. a reduction in cash flow or the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may continue to result in a reduction in our customers spending for our services and may also impact the ability of our customers to pay amounts owed to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our ability to grow at historical levels. an economic downturn in any of the industries we serve may lead to less demand for our services. because the vast majority of our revenue is derived from a few industries, a downturn in any of those industries would adversely affect our results of operations. specifically, an economic downturn in any industry we serve could result in the delay, reduction or cancellation of projects by our customers as well as cause our customers to outsource less work, resulting in decreased demand for our services and potentially impacting our operations and our ability to grow at historical levels. a number of other factors, including financing conditions and potential bankruptcies in the industries we serve or a prolonged economic downturn or recession, could adversely affect our customers and their ability or willingness to fund capital expenditures in the future or pay for past services. for example, our telecommunications infrastructure services segment has been negatively impacted since mid-2008 by the slowdown in fiber deployment initiatives from customers such as at t and verizon, and we expect this slowdown will likely continue, at least in the near-term. we continue to see reduced spending in electric and natural gas distribution work under our electric power infrastructure services and natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services segments due to capital expenditure reductions by our customers. another area of business under our natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services segment, gas gathering and pipeline installation and maintenance, has also declined during 2009, which we believe is due to lower natural gas prices and capital constraints on spending by our customers. consolidation, competition, capital constraints or negative economic conditions in the electric power, natural gas, oil and telecommunications industries may also result in reduced spending by, or the loss of, one or more of our customers. project performance issues, including those caused by third parties, or certain contractual obligations may result in additional costs to us, reductions in revenues or the payment of liquidated damages. in certain circumstances, we guarantee project completion by a scheduled acceptance date or achievement of certain acceptance and performance testing levels. many projects involve challenging engineering, procurement and construction phases that may occur over extended time periods, sometimes over several years. we may encounter difficulties as a result of delays in designs, engineering information or materials provided by the customer 12 table of contents or a third party, delays or difficulties in equipment and material delivery, schedule changes, delays from our customer failure to timely obtain permits or rights-of-way, weather-related delays and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, that impact our ability to complete the project in accordance with the original delivery schedule. in addition, we occasionally contract with third-party subcontractors to assist us with the completion of contracts. any delay or failure by suppliers or by subcontractors in the completion of their portion of the project may result in delays in the overall progress of the project or may cause us to incur additional costs, or both. we also may encounter project delays due to local opposition, which may include injunctive actions as well as public protests, to the siting of electric power, natural gas or oil transmission lines, solar or wind projects, or other facilities. delays and additional costs may be substantial and, in some cases, we may be required to compensate the customer for such delays. we may not be able to recover all of such costs. failure to meet any of our schedules or performance requirements could also result in additional costs or penalties, including liquidated damages, and such amounts could exceed expected project profit. in extreme cases, the above-mentioned factors could cause project cancellations, and we may not be able to replace such projects with similar projects or at all. such delays or cancellations may impact our reputation or relationships with customers, adversely affecting our ability to secure new contracts. our customers may change or delay various elements of the project after its commencement or the project schedule or the design, engineering information, equipment or materials that are to be provided by the customer or other parties may be deficient or delivered later than required by the project schedule, resulting in additional direct or indirect costs. under these circumstances, we generally negotiate with the customer with respect to the amount of additional time required and the compensation to be paid to us. we are subject to the risk that we may be unable to obtain, through negotiation, arbitration, litigation or otherwise, adequate amounts to compensate us for the additional work or expenses incurred by us due to customer-requested change orders or failure by the customer to timely deliver items, such as engineering drawings or materials, required to be provided by the customer. litigation or arbitration of claims for compensation may be lengthy and costly, and it is often difficult to predict when and for how much the claims will be resolved. a failure to obtain adequate compensation for these matters could require us to record a reduction to amounts of revenue and gross profit recognized in prior periods under the percentage-of-completion accounting method. any such adjustments could be substantial. we may also be required to invest significant working capital to fund cost overruns while the resolution of claims is pending, which could adversely affect liquidity and financial results in any given period. under our contracts with our customers, we typically provide a warranty for the services we provide, guaranteeing the work performed against defects in workmanship and material. the majority of our contracts have a warranty period of 12 months. as much of the work we perform is inspected by our customers for any defects in construction prior to acceptance of the project, the warranty claims that we have historically received have been minimal. additionally, materials used in construction are often provided by the customer or are warranted against defects from the supplier. however, certain projects, such as utility-scale solar facilities, may have longer warranty periods and include facility performance warranties that may be broader than the warranties we generally provide. in these circumstances, if warranty claims occurred, it could require us to reperform the services or to repair or replace the warranted item, at a cost to us, and could also result in other damages if we are not able to adequately satisfy our warranty obligations. in addition, we may be required under contractual arrangements with our customers to warrant any defects or failures in materials we provide that we purchase from third parties. while we generally require the materials suppliers to provide us warranties that are consistent with those we provide to the customers, if any of these suppliers default on their warranty obligations to us, we may incur costs to repair or replace the defective materials for which we are not reimbursed. costs incurred as a result of warranty claims could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our use of fixed price contracts could adversely affect our business and results of operations. we currently generate a portion of our revenues under fixed price contracts. we also expect to generate a greater portion of our revenues under this type of contract in the future as a result of the acquisition of price gregory, which conducts most of its work through fixed price arrangements, and as larger projects, such as electric power transmission build-outs and utility-scale solar facilities, become a more significant aspect of our business. we must estimate the costs of completing a particular project to bid for fixed price contracts. the actual cost of labor and 13 table of contents materials, however, may vary from the costs we originally estimated, and we may bear the risk of certain unforeseen circumstances not included in our cost estimates for which we cannot obtain adequate compensation. these variations, along with other risks inherent in performing fixed price contracts, may cause actual revenue and gross profits for a project to differ from those we originally estimated and could result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. depending upon the size of a particular project, variations from the estimated contract costs could have a significant impact on our operating results for any fiscal period. our operating results can be negatively affected by weather conditions. we perform substantially all of our services in the outdoors. as a result, adverse weather conditions, such as rainfall or snow, may affect our productivity in performing our services or may temporarily prevent us from performing services. the affect of weather delays on projects that are under fixed price arrangements may be greater if we are unable to adjust the project schedule for such delays. a reduction in our productivity in any given period or our inability to meet guaranteed schedules may adversely affect the profitability of our projects, and as a result, our results of operations. our use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits. as discussed in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 hereof, a significant portion of our revenues is recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, utilizing the cost-to-cost method. this method is used because management considers expended costs to be the best available measure of progress on these contracts. this accounting method is generally accepted for fixed price contracts. the percentage-of-completion accounting practice we use results in our recognizing contract revenues and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. the earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability. contract losses are recognized in full when determined to be probable and reasonably estimatable, and contract profit estimates are adjusted based on ongoing reviews of contract profitability. further, a substantial portion of our contracts contain various cost and performance incentives. penalties are recorded when known or finalized, which generally occurs during the latter stages of the contract. in addition, we record cost recovery claims when we believe recovery is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. actual collection of claims could differ from estimated amounts and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings. in certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be significant. we may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth. our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to: expand the range of services we offer to customers to address their evolving network needs; attract new customers; increase the number of projects performed for existing customers; hire and retain qualified employees; expand geographically, including internationally; and address the challenges presented by difficult economic or market conditions that may affect us or our customers. in addition, our customers may cancel or delay or reduce the number or size of projects available to us due to their inability to obtain capital or pay for services provided, the risk of which has become evident in light of the continuing economic downturn. many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies for achieving internal growth will be successful. 14 table of contents as a result of the acquisition of price gregory, our profitability and financial condition may be adversely affected by risks associated with the natural gas and oil industry, such as price fluctuations and supply and demand for natural gas. as a result of our acquisition of price gregory, our exposure to risks associated with providing services under our natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services segment have now increased due to the increase in the portion of our revenues attributable to these services. these risks, which are not subject to our control, include the volatility of natural gas prices, the lack of demand for power generation from natural gas and a slowdown in the discovery or development of natural gas and/or oil reserves. specifically, lower natural gas and oil prices generally result in decreased spending by our natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services segment customers. while higher natural gas and oil prices generally result in increased spending by these customers, sustained high energy prices could be an impediment to economic growth and could result in reduced spending by such customers. additionally, higher prices will likely reduce demand for power generation from natural gas, which could result in decreased demand for the expansion of north america natural gas pipeline infrastructure, and consequently result in less capital spending by these customers and less demand for our services. further, if the discovery or development of natural gas and/or oil reserves slowed or stopped, customers would likely reduce capital spending on transmission pipelines, gas gathering and compressor systems and other related infrastructure, resulting in less demand for our services. if the profitability of our business under natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services segment were to decline, our overall profitability, results of operations and cash flows could also be adversely affected. we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from acquiring price gregory. the success of our acquisition of price gregory will depend, in part, on our ability to realize anticipated benefits from acquiring price gregory, including the significant expansion of our operations in our natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services segment, certain eliminations of redundant costs and cross-selling opportunities with our other operations. to realize these benefits, however, we must successfully integrate the operations and personnel of price gregory into our business. if this integration is unsuccessful, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer or cost more to realize than expected. because we and price gregory have previously operated as independent companies, it is possible the integration may result in the future loss of valuable employees, the disruption of our business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, policies and compensation arrangements. furthermore, price gregory was formed on january 31, 2008 through a combination of h.c. price company and gregory cook construction, inc., both independently operated companies with separate ownership prior to the combination. although substantial progress had been made at the time of the acquisition of price gregory, the integration of these two companies is continuing, and this integration may result in similar adverse impacts to our business. if we are unable to successfully complete these integrations, we may not fully realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of price gregory or we may be impacted negatively by the integration process, which could adversely affect our revenues, earnings and cash flows. our business is highly competitive. the specialty contracting business is served by numerous small, owner-operated private companies, some public companies and several large regional companies. in addition, relatively few barriers prevent entry into some areas of our business. as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become one of our competitors. competition in the industry depends on a number of factors, including price. for example, we are currently experiencing the impacts of competitive pricing in certain of the markets we serve. certain of our competitors may have lower overhead cost structures and, therefore, may be able to provide their services at lower rates than we are able to provide. in addition, some of our competitors have significant resources including financial, technical and marketing resources. we cannot be certain that our competitors do not have or will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services. similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position within the specialty contracting business or maintain our customer base at current levels. we also may face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective 15 table of contents customers. electric power, natural gas, oil and telecommunications service providers usually employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services we do, and we cannot be certain that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource services in the future. legislative actions and initiatives relating to electric power, renewable energy and telecommunications may fail to result in increased demand for our services. demand for our services may not result from renewable energy initiatives. while many states currently have mandates in place that require certain percentages of power to be generated from renewable sources, states could reduce those mandates or make them optional, which could reduce, delay or eliminate renewable energy development in the affected states. additionally, renewable energy is generally more expensive to produce and may require additional power generation sources as backup. the locations of renewable energy projects are often remote and are not viable unless new or expanded transmission infrastructure to transport the power to demand centers is economically feasible. furthermore, funding for renewable energy initiatives may not be available, which may be further constrained as a result of the current tight credit markets. these factors have resulted in fewer renewable energy projects than anticipated and a delay in the construction of these projects and the related infrastructure, which has adversely affected the demand for our services. these factors could continue to result in delays or reductions in projects, which could further negatively impact our business. the arra provides for various stimulus programs, such as grants, loan guarantees and tax incentives, relating to renewable energy, energy efficiency and electric power and telecommunications infrastructure. we cannot predict when programs under the arra will be implemented, the timing and scope of any investments to be made under these programs or whether these programs will result in increased demand for our services. investments for renewable energy, electric power infrastructure and telecommunications fiber deployment under arra programs may not occur, may be less than anticipated or may be delayed, any of which would negatively impact demand for our services. in addition, other current and potential legislative initiatives may not result in increased demand for our services. for instance, certain provisions of the proposed american clean energy and security act (aces act) are intended to encourage electric power transmission and renewable energy projects. however, it is uncertain whether the aces act, if enacted, will positively impact infrastructure spending in the long-term. specifically, the aces act may not result in the anticipated acceleration of future transmission projects or encourage the installation of renewable energy generation facilities, which could result in fewer electric power transmission and substation projects than anticipated and consequently adversely impact demand for our services. it is not certain when or if these legislative initiatives, including the aces act, will be enacted or whether any potentially beneficial provisions will be included in the final legislation. the energy policy act of 2005 (energy act) requires the power industry to meet certain federal reliability standards for its transmission and distribution systems and provides incentives to the industry to invest in and improve maintenance on its systems. however, regulations implementing various components of the energy act that could affect demand for our services remain subject to uncertainty. accordingly, the effect of these regulations, once finally implemented, cannot be predicted. as a result, the legislation may not result in increased spending on electric power transmission infrastructure or increased demand for our services. there are also a number of other legislative and regulatory proposals, including the aces act, to address greenhouse gas emissions, which are in various phases of discussion or implementation. the outcome of federal and state actions to address global climate change could negatively affect the operations of our customers through costs of compliance or restraints on projects, which could reduce their demand for our services. many of our contracts may be canceled on short notice or may not be renewed upon completion or expiration, and we may be unsuccessful in replacing our contracts in such events. we could experience a decrease in our revenue, net income and liquidity if any of the following occur: our customers cancel a significant number of contracts or contracts having significant value; we fail to win a significant number of our existing contracts upon re-bid; 16 table of contents we complete a significant number of non-recurring projects and cannot replace them with similar projects; or we fail to reduce operating and overhead expenses consistent with any decrease in our revenue. many of our customers may cancel our contracts on short notice, typically 30 to 90 days, even if we are not in default under the contract. certain of our customers assign work to us on a project-by-project basis under master service agreements. under these agreements, our customers often have no obligation to assign a specific amount of work to us. our operations could decline significantly if the anticipated volume of work is not assigned to us, which will be more likely if customer spending continues to decrease, for example, due to the current economic downturn. many of our contracts, including our master service agreements, are opened to public bid at the expiration of their terms. there can be no assurance that we will be the successful bidder on our existing contracts that come up for re-bid. our business is labor intensive, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees. our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability will be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy. for instance, we may experience shortages of qualified journeyman linemen, who are integral to the provision of transmission and distribution services under our electric power infrastructure services segment. in addition, in our natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services segment, there is limited availability of experienced supervisors and foremen that can oversee large transmission pipeline projects. a shortage in the supply of these skilled personnel creates competitive hiring markets and may result in increased labor expenses. labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues. backlog may not be realized or may not result in profits. backlog is difficult to determine with certainty. customers often have no obligation under our contracts to assign or release work to us, and many contracts may be terminated on short notice. reductions in backlog due to cancellation of one or more contracts by a customer or for other reasons could significantly reduce the revenue and profit we actually receive from contracts included in backlog. in the event of a project cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but typically have no contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. the backlog we obtain in connection with any companies we acquire may not be as large as we believed or may not result in the revenue or profits we expected. in addition, projects may remain in backlog for extended periods of time. all of these uncertainties are heightened as a result of negative economic conditions and their impact on our customers spending. consequently, we cannot assure you that our estimates of backlog are accurate or that we will be able to realize our estimated backlog. our financial results are based upon estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. in preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states, several estimates and assumptions are used by management in determining the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses recognized during the periods presented and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities known to exist as of the date of the financial statements. these estimates and assumptions must be made because certain information that is used in the preparation of our financial statements is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available or is not capable of being readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. in some cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine and we must exercise significant judgment. estimates are primarily used in our assessment of the allowance for doubtful accounts, valuation of inventory, useful lives of assets, fair value assumptions in analyzing goodwill, other intangibles and long-lived asset impairments, valuation of derivative contracts, purchase price allocations, liabilities for self-insured claims, convertible debt, revenue recognition for construction contracts and fiber optic licensing, share-based compensation, operating results of reportable segments, provision for income taxes and calculation of uncertain tax positions. actual results for all estimates could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 17 table of contents factors beyond our control may affect our ability to successfully execute our acquisition strategy, which may have an adverse impact on our growth strategy. our business strategy includes expanding our presence in the industries we serve through strategic acquisitions of companies that complement or enhance our business. we expect to face competition for acquisition opportunities, and some of our competitors may offer more favorable terms than us or have greater financial resources than we do. this competition may limit our acquisition opportunities and our ability to grow through acquisitions or could raise the prices of acquisitions and make them less accretive or possibly non-accretive to us. acquisitions that we may pursue may also involve significant cash expenditures, the incurrence or assumption of debt or the issuance of securities. any acquisition may ultimately have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, if we issue equity securities in connection with our acquisitions, we may dilute our earnings per share and our shareholders percentage ownership. we may be unsuccessful at integrating companies that either we have acquired or that we may acquire in the future. as a part of our business strategy, we have acquired, and seek to acquire in the future, companies that complement or enhance our business. however, we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully integrate each of these companies with our existing operations without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial problems. if we do not implement proper overall business controls, our decentralized operating strategy could result in inconsistent operating and financial practices at the companies we acquire and our overall profitability could be adversely affected. integrating our acquired companies involves a number of special risks that could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including: failure of acquired companies to achieve the results we expect; diversion of our management attention from operational and other matters; difficulties integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies; inability to retain key personnel of acquired companies; risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities; loss of business due to customer overlap; risks arising from the prior operations of acquired companies, such as performance, safety or workforce issues; and potential disruptions of our business. if one of our acquired companies suffers or has suffered customer dissatisfaction, performance problems or operational issues, the reputation of our entire company could suffer. our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of goodwill impairments. when we acquire a business, we record an asset called goodwill equal to the excess amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business we acquire. for example, in connection with the acquisition of price gregory, we recorded approximately $68.5 million in goodwill and $76.5 million of intangible assets based on the application of acquisition accounting. goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives cannot be amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairment, while intangible assets that have finite useful lives are amortized over their useful lives. the accounting literature provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for impairment. refer to item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting polices for a detailed discussion. management is required to make certain estimates and assumptions when allocating goodwill to reporting units and determining the fair value of a reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. fair value is determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow, 18 table of contents market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches. absent any impairment indicators, we perform our impairment tests annually during the fourth quarter. if there is a decrease in market capitalization below book value in the future, this may be considered an impairment indicator. any future impairments, including impairments of the goodwill or intangible assets recorded in connection with the acquisition of price gregory, and other past or future acquisitions, would negatively impact our results of operations for the period in which the impairment is recognized. our profitability and financial operations may be negatively affected by changes in, or interpretations of, existing state or federal telecommunications regulations or new regulations that could adversely affect our fiber optic licensing segment. many of our fiber optic licensing segment customers benefit from the universal service e-rate program, which was established by congress in the 1996 telecommunications act and is administered by the universal service administrative company (usac) under the oversight of the federal communications commission (fcc). under the e-rate program, schools, libraries and certain healthcare facilities may receive subsidies for certain approved telecommunications services, internet access and internal connections. from time to time, bills have been introduced in congress that would eliminate or curtail the e-rate program. passage of such actions by the fcc or usac to further limit e-rate subsidies could decrease the demand by certain customers for the services offered by our fiber optic licensing segment. the telecommunications services we provide through our fiber optic licensing segment are subject to regulation by the fcc, to the extent that they are interstate telecommunications services, and by state regulatory agencies, when wholly within a particular state. to remain eligible to provide services under the e-rate program, we must maintain telecommunications authorizations in every state where we operate, and we must obtain such authorizations in any new state where we plan to operate. changes in federal or state regulations could reduce the profitability of our fiber optic licensing segment, and delays in obtaining new authorizations could inhibit our ability to grow our fiber optic licensing segment in new geographic areas. we could be subject to fines if the fcc or a state regulatory agency were to determine that any of our activities or positions are not in compliance with certain regulations. if the profitability of our fiber optic licensing segment were to decline, or if the business of this segment were to become subject to fines, our overall results of operations and cash flows could also be adversely affected. the business of our fiber optic licensing segment is capital intensive and requires substantial investments, and returns on investments may be less than expected for various reasons. the business of our fiber optic licensing segment requires substantial amounts of capital investment to build out new fiber networks. in 2010, our proposed capital expenditures for our fiber optic licensing business is approximately $70.0 million, $12.1 million of which is related to committed licensing arrangements as of december 31, 2009. although we generally do not commit capital to new networks until we have a committed license arrangement in place with at least one customer, we may not be able to recoup our initial investment in the network if that customer defaults on its commitment. even if the customer does not default or we add additional customers to the network, we still may not realize a return on the capital investment for an extended period of time. furthermore, the amount of capital that we invest in our fiber optic network may exceed planned expenditures as a result of various factors, including difficulty in obtaining permits or rights of way or unexpected increases in costs due to labor, materials or project productivity, which would result in a decrease in the returns on our capital investments if licensing fees for the network were committed and could not be renegotiated. new or developing technologies or significant competition in any of our markets could also negatively impact the business of our fiber optic licensing segment. if any of the above events occur, it could adversely affect our results of operations or result in an impairment of our fiber optic network. 19 table of contents we extend credit to customers for purchases of our services and may enter into longer-term deferred payment arrangements or provide other financing or investment arrangements with certain of our customers, which subjects us to potential credit or investment risk that could, if realized, adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we grant credit, generally without collateral, to our customers, which include electric power utilities, oil and gas companies, telecommunications and cable television system operators, governmental entities, general contractors, and builders, owners and managers of renewal energy facilities and commercial and industrial properties located primarily in the united states. we may also agree to allow our customers to defer payment on projects until certain milestones have been met or until the projects are substantially completed, although we generally obtain some form of financial assurance to ensure payment. in addition, we may provide other forms of financing or make investments in the projects we perform. our payment arrangements with our customers subject us to potential credit or investment risk related to changes in business and economic factors affecting our customers. some of our customers are currently experiencing financial difficulties as a result of the current economic downturn. if significant customers file for bankruptcy or continue to experience financial difficulties, (or if anticipated recoveries relating to receivables in existing bankruptcies or other workout situations fail to materialize), we could experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of current allowances provided or impairments of our investments. in addition, material changes in any of our customer revenues or cash flows could affect our ability to collect amounts due from them. we are self-insured against potential liabilities. although we maintain insurance policies with respect to employer liability, general liability, auto and workers compensation claims, those policies are subject to deductibles ranging from $1.0 million to $5.0 million per occurrence depending on the insurance policy. we are primarily self-insured for all claims that do not exceed the amount of the applicable deductible. we also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $350,000 per claimant per year. losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. these insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety program. the accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends and management believes such accruals to be adequate. if we were to experience insurance claims or costs significantly above our estimates, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected in a given period. during the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to lawsuits or indemnity claims, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. we have in the past been, and may in the future be, named as a defendant in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings during the ordinary course of our business. these actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract, property damage, punitive damages, civil penalties or other losses or injunctive or declaratory relief. in addition, we generally indemnify our customers for claims related to the services we provide and actions we take under our contracts with them, and, in some instances, we may be allocated risk through our contract terms for actions by our customers or other third parties. because our services in certain instances may be integral to the operation and performance of our customers infrastructure, we may become subject to lawsuits or claims for any failure of the systems that we work on, even if our services are not the cause of such failures, and we could be subject to civil and criminal liabilities to the extent that our services contributed to any property damage, personal injury or system failure. the outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings could result in significant costs and diversion of management attention to the business. payments of significant amounts, even if reserved, could adversely affect our reputation, liquidity and results of operations. 20 table of contents unavailability or cancellation of third party insurance coverage would increase our overall risk exposure as well as disrupt our operations. we maintain insurance coverage from third party insurers as part of our overall risk management strategy and because some of our contracts require us to maintain specific insurance coverage limits. there can be no assurance that any of our existing insurance coverage will be renewable upon the expiration of the coverage period or that future coverage will be affordable at the required limits. in addition, our third party insurers could fail, suddenly cancel our coverage or otherwise be unable to provide us with adequate insurance coverage. if any of these events occur, our overall risk exposure would increase and our operations could be disrupted. for example, we have significant operations in california, which has an environment conducive to wildfires. should our insurer determine to exclude coverage for wildfires in the future, we could be exposed to significant liabilities and potentially a disruption of our california operations. if our risk exposure increases as a result of adverse changes in our insurance coverages, we could be subject to increased claims and liabilities that could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. the departure of key personnel could disrupt our business. we depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and on senior management of our operating units, including the businesses we acquire. although we have entered into employment agreements with terms of one to three years with most of our executive officers and certain other key employees, we cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time. the loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business. we do not carry key-person life insurance on any of our employees. our unionized workforce and related obligations could adversely affect our operations. as of december 31, 2009, approximately 44% of our hourly employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. the acquisition of price gregory increased our unionized workforce, as substantially all of their hourly employees are unionized. although the majority of the collective bargaining agreements prohibit strikes and work stoppages, we cannot be certain that strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the future. strikes or work stoppages would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and could cause us to lose business and decrease our revenue. additionally, our collective bargaining agreements generally require us to participate with other companies in multi-employer pension plans. to the extent those plans are underfunded, the employee retirement income security act of 1974, as amended by the multi-employer pension plan amendments act of 1980, may subject us to substantial liabilities under those plans if we withdraw from them or they are terminated. furthermore, the pension protection act of 2006 added new funding rules generally applicable to plan years beginning after 2007 for multi-employer plans that are classified as endangered, seriously endangered, or critical status. for a plan in critical status, additional required contributions or benefit reductions may apply if a plan is determined to be underfunded, which could detrimentally affect our financial condition or results of operation. we have received notifications regarding the funded status of certain multi-employer plans to which price gregory contributes in certain states. pursuant to the notifications, two plans were in critical status, one was in seriously endangered status and one was in endangered status, and in some cases additional contributions in the form of surcharges are required. should we provide in the future a significant amount of services in areas that require us to utilize unionized employees covered by these affected plans, causing us to make substantial contributions, or should a determination be made that additional plans to which any of our operating units contribute are in a critical status requiring additional contributions, it could detrimentally affect our results of operations or financial condition if we are not able to adequately mitigate these costs. our ability to complete future acquisitions could be adversely affected because of our union status for a variety of reasons. for instance, our union agreements may be incompatible with the union agreements of a business we want to acquire and some businesses may not want to become affiliated with a union-based company. additionally, we may increase our exposure to withdrawal liabilities for underfunded multi-employer pension plans to which an acquired company contributes. for example, the acquisition of price gregory increased the number of unions in which we participate, as well as the number of multi-employer pension plans to which we contribute, some of which are subject to notices of underfunded status as described above or may not otherwise be as well-funded as other 21 table of contents multi-employer pension funds to which we contribute, potentially increasing our exposure to underfunded status, which could detrimentally affect our financial condition or results of operation. approximately 56% of our hourly employees are not unionized. the new presidential administration has expressed strong support for proposed legislation that would create more flexibility and opportunity for labor unions to organize non-union workers. if passed, this legislation could result in a greater percentage of our workforce being subject to collective bargaining agreements, heightening the risks described above. in addition, certain of our customers require or prefer a non-union workforce, and they may reduce the amount of work assigned to us if our non-union labor crews were to become unionized, which could negatively affect our business and results of operations. we may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial or reputational impacts relating to occupational health and safety matters. our operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace. while we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources in our occupational health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operational risk and there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant liability exposure. although we have taken what we believe are appropriate precautions, we have suffered fatalities in the past and may suffer additional fatalities in the future. serious accidents, including fatalities, may subject us to substantial penalties, civil litigation or criminal prosecution. claims for damages to persons, including claims for bodily injury or loss of life, could result in substantial costs and liabilities, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, if our safety record were to substantially deteriorate over time or we were to suffer substantial penalties or criminal prosecution for violation of health and safety regulations, our customers could cancel our contracts and not award us future business. risks associated with operating in international markets could restrict our ability to expand globally and harm our business and prospects, and we could be adversely affected by our failure to comply with the laws applicable to our foreign activities, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and other similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. while only a small percentage of our revenue is currently derived from international markets, we hope to continue to expand the volume of services that we provide internationally. our international operations are presently conducted primarily in canada, but we have performed work in south africa, mexico and various other foreign countries, and we expect that the number of countries that we operate in could expand significantly over the next few years. economic conditions, including those resulting from wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts or volatility in the global markets, may adversely affect our customers, their demand for our services and their ability to pay for our services. in addition, there are numerous risks inherent in conducting our business internationally, including, but not limited to, potential instability in international markets, changes in regulatory requirements applicable to international operations, currency fluctuations in foreign countries, political, economic and social conditions in foreign countries and complex u.s. and foreign laws and treaties, including tax laws and the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa). these risks could restrict our ability to provide services to international customers or to operate our international business profitably, and our overall business and results of operations could be negatively impacted by our foreign activities. the fcpa and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions prohibit u.s.-based companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. we pursue opportunities in certain parts of the world that experience government corruption to some degree, and, in certain circumstances, compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. further, we require our partners, subcontractors, agents and others who work for us or on our behalf that they are obligated to comply with the fcpa and other anti-bribery laws. although we have policies and procedures designed to ensure that we, our employees and our agents comply with the fcpa and other anti-bribery laws, there is no assurance that such policies or procedures will protect us against liability under the fcpa or other laws for actions taken by our agents, employees and intermediaries. if we are found to be liable for fcpa violations (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer from severe criminal or civil penalties or 22 table of contents other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, detecting, investigating, and resolving actual or alleged fcpa violations is expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management. our participation in joint ventures exposes us to liability and/or harm to our reputation for failures of our partners. as part of our business, we have entered into joint venture arrangements and may enter into additional joint venture arrangements in the future. the purpose of these joint ventures is typically to combine skills and resources to allow for the performance of particular projects. success on these jointly performed projects depends in large part on whether our joint venture partners satisfy their contractual obligations. we and our joint venture partners are generally jointly and severally liable for all liabilities and obligations of our joint ventures. if a joint venture partner fails to perform or is financially unable to bear its portion of required capital contributions or other obligations, including liabilities stemming from claims or lawsuits, we could be required to make additional investments, provide additional services or pay more than our proportionate share of a liability to make up for our partner shortfall. further, if we are unable to adequately address our partner performance issues, the customer may terminate the project, which could result in legal liability to us, harm our reputation and reduce our profit on a project. these risks have been heightened as a result of our assumption of additional joint venture arrangements in connection with our acquisition of price gregory. we are in the process of implementing an information technology ( it ) solution, which could temporarily disrupt day-to-day operations at certain operating units. we have begun to implement a comprehensive it solution that we believe will allow for a seamless interface between functions such as accounting and finance, human resources, operations, and fleet management. continued development and implementation of the it solution will require substantial financial and personnel resources. while the it solution is intended to improve and enhance our information systems, implementation of new information systems at each operating unit exposes us to the risks of start-up of the new system and integration of that system with our existing systems and processes, including possible disruption of our financial reporting. failure to properly implement the it solution could result in substantial disruptions to our business, including coordinating and processing our normal business activities, testing and recording of certain data necessary to provide oversight over our disclosure controls and procedures and effective internal controls over our financial reporting, and other unforeseen problems. our dependence on suppliers, subcontractors and equipment manufacturers could expose us to the risk of loss in our operations. on certain projects, we rely on suppliers to obtain the necessary materials and subcontractors to perform portions of our services. we also rely on equipment manufacturers to provide us with the equipment required to conduct our operations. although we are not dependent on any single supplier, subcontractor or equipment manufacturer, any substantial limitation on the availability of required suppliers, subcontractors or equipment manufacturers could negatively impact our operations. the risk of a lack of available suppliers, subcontractors or equipment manufacturers is heightened under the current turbulent market conditions and economic downturn. to the extent we cannot engage subcontractors or acquire equipment or materials, we could experience losses in the performance of our operations. our business growth could outpace the capability of our corporate management infrastructure. we cannot be certain that our infrastructure will be adequate to support our operations as they expand. future growth also could impose significant additional responsibilities on members of our senior management, including the need to recruit and integrate new senior level managers and executives. we cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain such additional managers and executives. to the extent that we are unable to manage our growth effectively, or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified management, we may not be able to expand our operations or execute our business plan. 23 table of contents opportunities within the government arena could subject us to increased governmental regulation and costs. most government contracts are awarded through a regulated competitive bidding process. as we pursue increased opportunities in the government arena, management focus associated with the start up and bidding process may be diverted away from other opportunities. involvement with government contracts could require a significant amount of costs to be incurred before any revenues are realized from these contracts. in addition, as a government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and other public sector liabilities, any deemed violation of which could lead to fines or penalties or a loss of business. government agencies routinely audit and investigate government contractors. government agencies may review a contractor performance under its contracts, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. if government agencies determine through these audits or reviews that costs were improperly allocated to specific contracts, they will not reimburse the contractor for those costs or may require the contractor to refund previously reimbursed costs. if government agencies determine that we engaged in improper activity, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties. in addition, if the government were to even allege improper activity, we also could experience serious harm to our reputation. many government contracts must be appropriated each year. if appropriations are not made in subsequent years we would not realize all of the potential revenues from any awarded contracts. a portion of our business depends on our ability to provide surety bonds. we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects if we are not able to obtain the necessary surety bonds. current or future market conditions, including losses incurred in the construction industry or as a result of large corporate bankruptcies, as well as changes in our sureties assessment of our operating and financial risk, could cause our surety providers to decline to issue or renew, or substantially reduce the amount of, bonds for our work and could increase our bonding costs. these actions could be taken on short notice. if our surety providers were to limit or eliminate our access to bonding, our alternatives would include seeking bonding capacity from other sureties, finding more business that does not require bonds and posting other forms of collateral for project performance, such as letters of credit or cash. we may be unable to secure these alternatives in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all, which could affect our ability to bid for or work on future projects requiring financial assurances. we have also granted security interests in various of our assets to collateralize our obligations to our sureties. furthermore, under standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue or continue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing or renewing any bonds. if we were to experience an interruption or reduction in the availability of bonding capacity as a result of these or any other reasons, we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects that would require bonding. our failure to comply with environmental laws could result in significant liabilities. our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including those dealing with the handling and disposal of waste products, pcbs, fuel storage and air quality. we perform work in many different types of underground environments. if the field location maps supplied to us are not accurate, or if objects are present in the soil that are not indicated on the field location maps, our underground work could strike objects in the soil, some of which may contain pollutants. these objects may also rupture, resulting in the discharge of pollutants. in such circumstances, we may be liable for fines and damages, and we may be unable to obtain reimbursement from the parties providing the incorrect information. as a result of our acquisition of price gregory, we expect an increase in the amount of work performed in and around environmentally sensitive areas such as rivers, lakes and wetlands. in addition, we perform directional drilling operations below certain environmentally sensitive terrains and water bodies. due to the inconsistent nature of the terrain and water bodies, it is possible that such directional drilling may cause a surface fracture, resulting in the release of subsurface materials. these subsurface materials may contain contaminants in excess of amounts permitted by law, potentially exposing us to remediation costs and fines. we also own and lease several facilities at which we store our equipment. some of these facilities contain fuel storage tanks that are above or below ground. if these tanks were to leak, we could be responsible for the cost of remediation as well as potential fines. 24 table of contents in addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or leaks, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur significant costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. in certain instances, we have obtained indemnification or covenants from third parties (including predecessors or lessors) for such cleanup and other obligations and liabilities that we believe are adequate to cover such obligations and liabilities. however, such third-party indemnities or covenants may not cover all of our costs, and such unanticipated obligations or liabilities, or future obligations and liabilities, may have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition or cash flows. further, we cannot be certain that we will be able to identify or be indemnified for all potential environmental liabilities relating to any acquired business. there are also other legislative and regulatory proposals, including the aces act, to address greenhouse gas emissions. these proposals, if enacted, could result in a variety of regulatory programs including potential new regulations, additional charges to fund energy efficiency activities, or other regulatory actions. any of these actions could result in increased costs associated with our operations and impact the prices we charge our customers. for example, if new regulations are adopted regulating greenhouse gas emissions from mobile sources such as cars and trucks, we could experience a significant increase in environmental compliance costs in light of our large rolling-stock fleet. in addition, if our operations are perceived to result in high greenhouse gas emissions, our reputation could suffer. we may not be successful in continuing to meet the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 has many requirements applicable to us regarding corporate governance and financial reporting, including the requirements for management to report on our internal controls over financial reporting and for our independent registered public accounting firm to express an opinion over the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. during 2009, we continued actions to ensure our ability to comply with these requirements. as of december 31, 2009, our internal control over financial reporting was effective; however, there can be no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in future years. failure to maintain effective internal controls or the identification of significant internal control deficiencies in acquisitions already made or made in the future could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock and our other publicly traded securities, the reduced ability to obtain financing, the loss of customers, penalties and additional expenditures to meet the requirements. if we are unable to enforce our intellectual property rights or if our intellectual property rights become obsolete, our competitive position could be adversely impacted. we utilize a variety of intellectual property rights in our services. we view our portfolio of proprietary energized services tools and techniques as well as our other process and design technologies as one of our competitive strengths, and we use it as part of our efforts to differentiate our service offerings. we may not be able to successfully preserve these intellectual property rights in the future and these rights could be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries in which our services may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. we also license certain technologies from third parties, and there is a risk that our relationships with licensors may terminate or expire or may be interrupted or harmed. if we are unable to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights, or if there are any successful intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings against us, our ability to differentiate our service offerings could be reduced. in addition, if our intellectual property rights or work processes become obsolete, we may not be able to differentiate our service offerings, and some of our competitors may be able to offer more attractive services to our customers. as a result, our business and revenue could be materially and adversely affected. we may not have access in the future to sufficient funding to finance desired growth and operations. if we cannot secure funds in the future, including financing on acceptable terms, we may be unable to support our growth strategy or future operations. we cannot readily predict the ability of certain customers to pay for past services, and the current economic downturn may negatively impact the ability of our customers to pay amounts owed to us. we also cannot readily predict the timing, size and success of our acquisition efforts. using cash for acquisitions limits our 25 table of contents financial flexibility and makes us more likely to seek additional capital through future debt or equity financings. our existing credit facility contains significant restrictions on our operational and financial flexibility, including our ability to incur additional debt or conduct equity financings, and if we seek more debt we may have to agree to additional covenants that limit our operational and financial flexibility. when we seek additional debt or equity financings, we cannot be certain that additional debt or equity will be available to us on terms acceptable to us or at all, in particular under the current volatile market conditions. furthermore, our credit facility is based upon existing commitments from several banks. with the current tight credit markets, banks have become more restrictive in their lending practices, and some may be unable or unwilling to fund their commitments, which may limit our access to the capital needed to fund our growth and operations. we also rely on financing companies to fund the leasing of certain of our trucks and trailers, support vehicles and specialty construction equipment. the current credit market may cause certain of these financing companies to restrict or withhold access to capital to fund the leasing of additional equipment. although we are not dependent on any single equipment lessor, a widespread lack of available capital to fund the leasing of equipment could negatively impact our future operations. additionally, the market price of our common stock may change significantly in response to various factors and events beyond our control, which will impact our ability to use equity to obtain funds. a variety of events may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly, including overall market conditions or volatility, a shortfall in our operating results from those anticipated, negative results or other unfavorable information relating to our market peers on the risk factors described in this annual report on form 10-k. the industries we serve are subject to rapid technological and structural changes that could reduce the demand for the services we provide. the electric power, gas and oil, telecommunications and cable television industries are undergoing rapid change as a result of technological advances that could, in certain cases, reduce the demand for our services, impair the value of our fiber optic network or otherwise negatively impact our business. new or developing technologies could displace the wireline systems used for voice, video and data transmissions, and improvements in existing technology may allow our telecommunications infrastructure services segment customers to significantly improve their networks without physically upgrading them. our convertible subordinated notes may be convertible in the future, which, if converted, may result in dilution to existing stockholders, lower prevailing market prices for our common stock or cause a significant cash outlay. as a result of our common stock satisfying the market price condition of our convertible subordinated notes, our 3.75% convertible subordinated notes due 2026 (3.75% notes) have been convertible at the option of the holders at various times in the past. the 3.75% notes are not presently convertible, but may resume convertibility in future periods upon satisfaction of the market price condition or other conditions. we have the right to deliver shares of our common stock, cash or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock upon a conversion of the 3.75% notes. the number of shares issuable upon conversion will be determined based on a conversion rate of approximately $22.41. in the event that all 3.75% notes were converted for common stock, we would issue an aggregate of 6.4 million shares of our common stock. the conversion of some or all of our 3.75% notes into our common stock would dilute existing stockholders. any sales in the public market of the common stock issued upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. in addition, the possibility that the notes may be converted may encourage short-selling by market participants because the conversion of the notes could depress the price of our common stock. if we elect to satisfy the conversion obligation in cash, the amount of cash payable upon conversion of the 3.75% notes will be determined by the product of (i) the number of shares issuable for the principal amount of the converted notes at a conversion rate of approximately $22.41 per share and (ii) the average closing price of our common stock during a 20-day trading period following the holders unretracted election to convert the notes. to the extent we decide to pay cash to settle any conversions and the average closing price of our common stock during this 26 table of contents period exceeds $22.41 for the 3.75% notes, we would have to pay cash in excess of the principal amount of the notes being converted, which would result in the recording of a loss on extinguishment of debt. certain provisions of our corporate governing documents could make an acquisition of our company more difficult. the following provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as currently in effect, as well as our stockholder rights plan and delaware law, could discourage potential proposals to acquire us, delay or prevent a change in control of us or limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock: our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to issue blank check preferred stock and to adopt amendments to our bylaws; our bylaws contain restrictions regarding the right of stockholders to nominate directors and to submit proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings; our certificate of incorporation and bylaws restrict the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to act by written consent; and we are subject to provisions of delaware law which prohibit us from engaging in any of a broad range of business transactions with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date such stockholder became classified as an interested stockholder. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 64 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary exposure to market risk relates to unfavorable changes in concentration of credit risk, interest rates and currency exchange rates. credit risk. we are subject to concentrations of credit risk related to our cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivable. substantially all of our cash investments are managed by what we believe to be high credit quality financial institutions. in accordance with our investment policies, these institutions are authorized to invest this cash in a diversified portfolio of what we believe to be high-quality investments, which primarily include interest-bearing demand deposits, money market mutual funds and investment grade commercial paper with original maturities of three months or less. although we do not currently believe the principal amounts of these investments are subject to any material risk of loss, the recent volatility in the financial markets is likely to continue to have a significant negative impact on the interest income we receive from these investments. in addition, as we grant credit under normal payment terms, generally with collateral, we are subject to potential credit risk related to our customers ability to pay for services provided. this risk may be heightened as a result of the current financial crisis and volatility of the markets. however, we believe the concentration of credit risk related to trade accounts receivable is limited because of the diversity of our customers. we perform ongoing credit risk assessments of our customers and financial institutions and obtain collateral or other security from our customers when appropriate. interest rate and market risk. our exposure to interest rate and market risk for changes in interest rates relates to our convertible subordinated notes. the fair market value of our fixed rate convertible subordinated notes is subject to interest rate risk because of their fixed interest rate and market risk due to the convertible feature of our convertible subordinated notes. generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. the fair market value of our convertible subordinated notes will also increase as the market price of our stock rises and decrease as the market price falls. the interest and market value changes affect the fair market value of our convertible subordinated notes but do not impact their carrying value. as of december 31, 2008 and 2009, the fair value of the aggregate principal amount of our fixed-rate debt of $143.8 million was approximately $136.6 million and $160.8 million, based upon quoted secondary market prices on or before such dates. in addition, the volatility of the credit markets has had a negative impact on interest income in the last several quarters, and it is likely to significantly impact our interest income related to our cash investments in the near-term. currency risk. in the third quarter of 2009, one of our canadian operating units entered into three forward contracts with settlement dates in december 2009, june 2010 and november 2010, to reduce foreign currency risk associated with anticipated customer sales that are denominated in south african rand. this same operating unit also entered into three additional forward contracts to reduce the foreign currency exposure associated with a series of forecasted intercompany payments denominated in u.s. dollars to be made in the next twelve months, which also had settlement dates in december 2009, june 2010 and november 2010. 64 table of contents the south african rand to canadian dollar forward contracts had an aggregate notional amount of approximately $11.0 million ($cad) at origination, with one contract for approximately $5.8 million ($cad) being settled in december 2009. these contracts have been accounted for by the canadian operating unit as cash flow hedges. accordingly, changes in the fair value of the three forward contracts between the south african rand and the canadian dollar have been recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) prior to their settlement and have been and will be reclassified into earnings in the periods in which the hedged transactions occur. during the year ended december 31, 2009, approximately $0.3 million of loss was reclassified into income in connection with the settled contract. during the year ended december 31, 2009, a gain of $0.1 million was recorded to other comprehensive income (loss) related to the two remaining south african rand to canadian dollar forward contracts. the three canadian dollar to u.s. dollar forward contracts had an aggregate notional amount of approximately $9.5 million (u.s.) at origination, with one contract for approximately $5.0 million having settled in december 2009. such contracts have also been accounted for as cash flow hedges. accordingly, changes in the fair value of the three forward contracts between the canadian dollar and the u.s. dollar have been recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) prior to their settlement and have been or will be reclassified into earnings in the periods in which the hedged transactions occur. during the year ended december 31, 2009, a loss of $0.5 million was reclassified into earnings in connection with the settled contract and a loss of $0.5 million was recorded to other comprehensive income (loss) related to the two remaining canadian dollar to u.s. dollar forward contracts. 65 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors for additional information. customers, strategic alliances and preferred provider relationships our customers include electric power, natural gas and oil pipeline and telecommunications companies, as well as commercial, industrial and governmental entities. our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 39% of our consolidated revenues during the year ended december 31, 2010. one customer accounted for approximately 11% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended december 31, 2010. revenues from business with this customer are included in the natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services segment. although we have a centralized marketing and business development strategy, management at each of our operating units is responsible for developing and maintaining successful long-term relationships with customers. our operating unit management teams build upon existing customer relationships to secure additional projects and increase revenue from our current customer base. many of these customer relationships originated decades ago and are maintained through a partnering approach to account management that includes project evaluation and consulting, quality performance, performance measurement and direct customer contact. additionally, operating unit management focuses on pursuing growth opportunities with prospective new customers. we encourage operating unit management to cross-sell services of other operating units to their customers and to coordinate with other operating units to pursue projects, especially those that are larger and more complicated. our business development group supports the operating units activities by promoting and marketing our services for existing and prospective large national accounts, as well as projects that would require services from multiple operating units. we are a preferred vendor to many of our customers. as a preferred vendor, we have met minimum standards for a specific category of service, maintained a high level of performance and agreed to certain payment terms and negotiated rates. we strive to maintain preferred vendor status as we believe it provides us an advantage in the award of future work for the applicable customer. we believe that our strategic relationships with customers in the electric power, natural gas, oil and telecommunications industries will continue to result in future opportunities. many of these strategic relationships take the form of strategic alliance or long-term maintenance agreements. strategic alliance agreements generally state an intention to work together, and many provide us with preferential bidding procedures. strategic alliances and long-term maintenance agreements are typically agreements for an initial term of approximately two to four years that may include an option to add extensions at the end of the initial term. backlog backlog represents the amount of revenue that we expect to realize from work to be performed in the future on uncompleted contracts, including new contractual agreements on which work has not begun. the backlog estimates include amounts under long-term maintenance contracts in addition to construction contracts. we determine the amount of backlog for work under long-term maintenance contracts, or master service agreements (msas), by using recurring historical trends inherent in the current msas, factoring in seasonal demand and projected customer needs based upon ongoing communications with the customer. we also include in backlog our share of work to be performed under contracts signed by joint ventures in which we have an ownership interest. the following tables 6 present our total backlog by reportable segment as of december 31, 2010 and 2009, along with an estimate of the backlog amounts expected to be realized within 12 months of each balance sheet date (in thousands): backlog as of backlog as of december 31, 2010 december 31, 2009 12 month total 12 month total electric power infrastructure services $ 1,798,284 $ 4,473,425 $ 1,312,141 $ 3,855,320 natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services 743,970 1,026,937 847,702 1,120,795 telecommunications infrastructure services 228,549 415,460 222,999 285,295 fiber optic licensing 98,792 402,299 87,786 387,373 total $ 2,869,595 $ 6,318,121 $ 2,470,628 $ 5,648,783 as discussed above, our backlog estimates include amounts under msas. generally, our customers are not contractually committed to specific volumes of services under our msas, and many of our contracts may be terminated with notice. there can be no assurance as to our customers requirements or that our estimates are accurate. in addition, many of our msas, as well as contracts for fiber optic licensing, are subject to renewal options. for purposes of calculating backlog, we have included future renewal options only to the extent the renewals can reasonably be expected to occur. projects included in backlog can be subject to delays as a result of commercial issues, regulatory requirements, adverse weather and other factors which could cause revenue amounts to be realized in periods later than originally expected. competition the markets in which we operate are highly competitive. we compete with other contractors in most of the geographic markets in which we operate, and several of our competitors are large domestic companies that have significant financial, technical and marketing resources. in addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry into some of the industries in which we operate and, as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become a competitor. a significant portion of our revenues is currently derived from unit price or fixed price agreements, and price is often an important factor in the award of such agreements. accordingly, we could be underbid by our competitors in an effort by them to procure such business. the recent economic downturn has increased the impacts of competitive pricing in certain of the markets that we serve. we believe that as demand for our services increases, customers will increasingly consider other factors in choosing a service provider, including technical expertise and experience, financial and operational resources, nationwide presence, industry reputation and dependability, which we expect to benefit larger contractors such as us. there can be no assurance, however, that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services, or that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position. we also face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers, including electric power, natural gas and pipeline, telecommunications and engineering companies, which employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services as those provided by us. although a significant portion of these services is currently outsourced by our customers, in particular services relating to larger energy transmission infrastructure projects, there can be no assurance that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource services in the future. employees as of december 31, 2010, we had 2,287 salaried employees, including executive officers, professional and administrative staff, project managers and engineers, job superintendents and clerical personnel, and 11,464 hourly employees, the number of which fluctuates depending upon the number and size of the projects we undertake at any particular time. approximately 39% of our hourly employees at december 31, 2010 were covered by collective bargaining agreements, primarily with the international brotherhood of electrical workers (ibew), the canadian union skilled workers (cusw) and the four pipeline construction trade unions administered by the pipe line contractors association (plca), which are the laborers international union of north america, international 7 brotherhood of teamsters, united association of plumbers and pipefitters and the international union of operating engineers. these collective bargaining agreements require the payment of specified wages to our union employees, the observance of certain workplace rules and the payment of certain amounts to multi-employer pension plans and employee benefit trusts rather than administering the funds on behalf of these employees. these collective bargaining agreements have varying terms and expiration dates. the majority of the collective bargaining agreements contain provisions that prohibit work stoppages or strikes, even during specified negotiation periods relating to agreement renewal, and provide for binding arbitration dispute resolution in the event of prolonged disagreement. we provide health, welfare and benefit plans for employees who are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. we have a 401(k) plan pursuant to which eligible employees who are not provided retirement benefits through a collective bargaining agreement may make contributions through a payroll deduction. we make matching cash contributions of 100% of each employee contribution up to 3% of that employee salary and 50% of each employee contribution between 3% and 6% of such employee salary, up to the maximum amount permitted by law. our industry is experiencing a shortage of journeyman linemen in certain geographic areas. in response to the shortage and to attract qualified employees, we utilize various ibew and national electrical contractors association (neca) training programs and support the joint ibew/neca apprenticeship program which trains qualified electrical workers. certain of our canadian operations also support the cusw apprenticeship programs for training construction and maintenance electricians and powerline technicians. we have also established apprenticeship training programs approved by the u.s. department of labor for employees not subject to the ibew/neca apprenticeship program, as well as additional company-wide and project-specific employee training and educational programs. we believe our relationships with our employees and union representatives are good. materials our customers typically supply most or all of the materials required for each job. however, for some of our contracts, we may procure all or part of the materials required. we purchase such materials from a variety of sources and do not anticipate experiencing any significant difficulties in procuring such materials. training, quality assurance and safety performance of our services requires the use of equipment and exposure to conditions that can be dangerous. although we are committed to a policy of operating safely and prudently, we have been and will continue to be subject to claims by employees, customers and third parties for property damage and personal injuries resulting from performance of our services. our operating units have established comprehensive safety policies, procedures and regulations and require that employees complete prescribed training and service programs prior to performing more sophisticated and technical jobs, which is in addition to those programs required, if applicable, by the ibew/neca apprenticeship program, the training programs sponsored by the four trade unions administered by the plca, the apprenticeship training programs sponsored by the cusw or our equivalent programs. under the ibew/neca apprenticeship program, all journeyman linemen are required to complete a minimum of 7,000 hours of on-the-job training, approximately 200 hours of classroom education and extensive testing and certification. certain of our operating units have established apprenticeship training programs approved by the u.s. department of labor that prescribe equivalent training requirements for employees who are not otherwise subject to the requirements of the ibew/neca apprenticeship program. similarly, the cusw offers apprenticeship training for construction and maintenance electricians that requires five terms of 1700 hours each, combining classroom and on-the-job training, as well as training for powerline technicians that also involves classroom and jobsite training over a four-year period. in addition, the laborers international union of north america, international brotherhood of teamsters, united association of plumbers and pipefitters and the international union of operating engineers have training programs specifically designed for developing and improving the skills of their members who work in the pipeline construction industry. our operating units also benefit from sharing best practices regarding their training and educational programs and comprehensive safety policies and regulations. regulation our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws and regulations including: licensing, permitting and inspection requirements applicable to contractors, electricians and engineers; 8 regulations relating to worker safety and environmental protection; permitting and inspection requirements applicable to construction projects; wage and hour regulations; regulations relating to transportation of equipment and materials, including licensing and permitting requirements; building and electrical codes; telecommunications regulations relating to our fiber optic licensing business; and special bidding, procurement and other requirements on government projects. we believe that we have all the licenses required to conduct our operations and that we are in substantial compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating licenses, as well as give rise to termination or cancellation rights under our contracts or disqualify us from future bidding opportunities. environmental matters and climate change impacts we are committed to the protection of the environment and train our employees to perform their duties accordingly. we are subject to numerous federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations governing our operations, including the handling, transportation and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous substances and wastes, as well as emissions and discharges into the environment, including discharges to air, surface water, groundwater and soil. we also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and cleanup responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. under certain of these laws and regulations, such liabilities can be imposed for cleanup of previously owned or operated properties, or properties to which hazardous substances or wastes were sent by current or former operations at our facilities, regardless of whether we directly caused the contamination or violated any law at the time of discharge or disposal. the presence of contamination from such substances or wastes could interfere with ongoing operations or adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or use our properties as collateral for financing. in addition, we could be held liable for significant penalties and damages under certain environmental laws and regulations and also could be subject to a revocation of our licenses or permits, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. our contracts with our customers may also impose liabilities on us regarding environmental issues that arise through the performance of our services. from time to time, we may incur costs and obligations for correcting environmental noncompliance matters and for remediation at or relating to certain of our properties. we believe that we are in substantial compliance with our environmental obligations to date and that any such obligations will not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial performance. the potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain. climate change may result in, among other things, changes in rainfall patterns, storm patterns and intensities and temperature levels. as discussed elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k, including in item 1a. risk factors , our operating results are significantly influenced by weather. therefore, significant changes in historical weather patterns could significantly impact our future operating results. for example, if climate change results in drier weather and more accommodating temperatures over a greater period of time in a given period, we may be able to increase our productivity, which could have a positive impact on our revenues and gross margins. in addition, if climate change results in an increase in severe weather, such as hurricanes and ice storms, we could experience a greater amount of higher margin emergency restoration service work, which generally has a positive impact on our gross margins. conversely, if climate change results in a greater amount of rainfall, snow, ice or other less accommodating weather conditions in a given period, we could experience reduced productivity, which could negatively impact our revenues and gross margins. 9 risk management and insurance we are insured for employer liability, general liability, auto liability and workers compensation claims. since august 1, 2009, all policy deductible levels are $5.0 million per occurrence, other than employer liability, which is subject to a deductible of $1.0 million. we also have employee healthcare benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $350,000 per claimant per year. for the policy year ended july 31, 2009, employer liability claims were subject to a deductible of $1.0 million per occurrence, general liability and auto liability claims were subject to a deductible of $3.0 million per occurrence, and workers compensation claims were subject to a deductible of $2.0 million per occurrence. additionally, for the policy year ended july 31, 2009, our workers compensation claims were subject to an annual cumulative aggregate liability of up to $1.0 million on claims in excess of $2.0 million per occurrence. our deductibles were generally lower in periods prior to august 1, 2008. losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimate of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. these insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the number of incidents not reported. the accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals are adequate. as of december 31, 2010 and 2009, the gross amount accrued for insurance claims totaled $216.8 million and $184.7 million, with $164.3 million and $130.1 million considered to be long-term and included in other non-current liabilities. related insurance recoveries/receivables as of december 31, 2010 and 2009 were $66.3 million and $33.7 million, of which $9.4 million and $13.4 million are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $56.9 million and $20.3 million are included in other assets, net. we renew our insurance policies on an annual basis, and therefore deductibles and levels of insurance coverage may change in future periods. in addition, insurers may cancel our coverage or determine to exclude certain items from coverage, or the cost to obtain such coverage may become unreasonable. in any such event, our overall risk exposure would increase, which could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. seasonality and cyclicality our revenues and results of operations can be subject to seasonal and other variations. these variations are influenced by weather, customer spending patterns, bidding seasons, project timing and schedules and holidays. typically, our revenues are lowest in the first quarter of the year because cold, snowy or wet conditions cause delays in projects. the second quarter is typically better than the first, as some projects begin, but continued cold and wet weather can often impact second quarter productivity. the third quarter is typically the best of the year, as a greater number of projects are underway and weather is more accommodating to work on projects. generally, revenues during the fourth quarter of the year are lower than the third quarter but higher than the second quarter. many projects are completed in the fourth quarter, and revenues are often impacted positively by customers seeking to spend their capital budgets before the end of the year; however, the holiday season and inclement weather can sometimes cause delays, reducing revenues and increasing costs. any quarter may be positively or negatively affected by atypical weather patterns in a given part of the country such as severe weather, excessive rainfall or warmer winter weather, making it difficult to predict these variations quarter-to-quarter and their effect on particular projects. additionally, our industry can be highly cyclical. as a result, our volume of business may be adversely affected by declines or delays in new projects in various geographic regions in the united states and canada. project schedules, in particular in connection with larger, longer-term projects, can also create fluctuations in the services provided, which may adversely affect us in a given period. the financial condition of our customers and their access to capital, variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular period, regional, national and global economic and market conditions, timing of acquisitions, the timing and magnitude of acquisition and integration costs associated with acquisitions and interest rate fluctuations may also materially affect quarterly results. accordingly, our operating results in any particular period may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other period. you should read outlook and understanding margins included in item 7. management 10 discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for additional discussion of trends and challenges that may affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. website access and other information our website address is www.quantaservices.com. you may obtain free electronic copies of our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to these reports through our website under the heading investors media/sec filings or through the website of the securities and exchange commission (the sec) at www.sec.gov. these reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the sec. in addition, our corporate governance guidelines, code of ethics and business conduct and the charters of each of our audit committee, compensation committee and governance and nominating committee are posted on our website under the heading investors media/corporate governance. we intend to disclose on our website any amendments or waivers to our code of ethics and business conduct that are required to be disclosed pursuant to item 5.05 of form 8-k. you may obtain free copies of these items from our website. we will make available to any stockholder, without charge, copies of our annual report on form 10-k as filed with the sec. for copies of this or any other quanta publication, stockholders may submit a request in writing to quanta services, inc., attn: corporate secretary, 1360 post oak blvd., suite 2100, houston, tx 77056, or by phone at 713-629-7600. this annual report on form 10-k and our website contain information provided by other sources that we believe are reliable. we cannot assure you that the information obtained from other sources is accurate or complete. no information on our website is incorporated by reference herein. item 1a. risk factors our business is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described below. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below also may impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected and we may not be able to achieve our goals or expectations. this annual report on form 10-k also includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended as forward-looking statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and should be read in conjunction with the section entitled uncertainty of forward-looking statements and information included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. our business can be highly cyclical and subject to seasonal and other variations that can result in significant differences in operating results from quarter to quarter. for example, we typically experience lower gross and operating margins during winter months due to lower demand for our services and more difficult operating conditions. additionally, our quarterly results may be materially and adversely affected by: variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular quarter; unfavorable regional, national or global economic and market conditions; a reduction in the demand for our services; the budgetary spending patterns of customers; increases in construction and design costs; the timing and volume of work we perform; the effects of adverse or favorable weather conditions; permitting, regulatory or customer-caused delays; the magnitude of work performed under change orders and the timing of their recognition; 11 the termination or expiration of existing agreements; pricing pressures resulting from competition; losses experienced in our operations not otherwise covered by insurance; a change in the mix of our customers, contracts and business; payment risk associated with the financial condition of our customers; changes in bonding and lien requirements applicable to existing and new agreements; implementation of various information systems, which could temporarily disrupt day-to-day operations; the recognition of tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions; decreases in interest rates we receive on our cash and cash equivalents; changes in accounting pronouncements that require us to account for items differently than historical pronouncements have; costs we incur to support growth internally or through acquisitions or otherwise; the timing and integration of acquisitions and the magnitude of the related acquisition and integration costs; and the timing and significance of potential impairments of long-lived assets, goodwill or other intangible assets. accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that you can expect for any other quarter or for the entire year. negative economic and market conditions may adversely impact our customers future spending as well as payment for our services and, as a result, our operations and growth. the economy is still recovering from the recent recession, and economic growth remains slow. the financial markets also have not fully recovered. it is uncertain when these conditions will significantly improve. stagnant or declining economic conditions have adversely impacted the demand for our services and resulted in the delay, reduction or cancellation of certain projects and may continue to adversely affect us in the future. additionally, many of our customers finance their projects through the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. the availability of credit remains constrained, and many of our customers equity values have not fully recovered from the negative impact of the recession. a reduction in cash flow or the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may continue to result in a reduction in our customers spending for our services and may also impact the ability of our customers to pay amounts owed to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our ability to grow at historical levels. economic conditions and regulatory requirements affecting any of the industries we serve may lead to less demand for our services. because the vast majority of our revenue is derived from a few industries, a downturn in economic conditions in any of those industries would adversely affect our results of operations. specifically, unfavorable economic conditions in any industry we serve could result in the delay, reduction or cancellation of projects by our customers as well as cause our customers to outsource less work. customers in the industries we serve may also face increased regulatory requirements as they implement plans for their projects, which could result in the delay, reduction or cancellation of these projects. these economic and regulatory factors may result in decreased demand for our services and potentially impact our operations and our ability to grow at historical levels. a number of other factors, including financing conditions and potential bankruptcies in the industries we serve or a prolonged economic downturn or recession, could adversely affect our customers and their ability or willingness to fund capital expenditures in the future or pay for past services. for example, our telecommunications infrastructure services segment has been negatively impacted since mid-2008 by the slowdown in fiber deployment initiatives from customers such as at t and verizon, and we expect this slowdown will likely continue. we continue to see 12 reduced spending in electric and natural gas distribution work under our electric power infrastructure services and natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services segments due to capital expenditure reductions by our customers. customers also delayed certain projects involving services under our electric power and telecommunications infrastructure services segments due to regulatory requirements, such as permitting or environmental approvals. another area of business under our natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services segment, gas gathering and pipeline installation and maintenance, declined during 2009 and 2010, which we believe is due to lower natural gas prices and capital constraints on spending by our customers. consolidation, competition, capital constraints or negative economic conditions in the electric power, natural gas, oil and telecommunications industries may also result in reduced spending by, or the loss of, one or more of our customers. project performance issues, including those caused by third parties, or certain contractual obligations may result in additional costs to us, reductions in revenues or the payment of liquidated damages. many projects involve challenging engineering, procurement and construction phases that may occur over extended time periods, sometimes over several years. we may encounter difficulties as a result of delays in designs, engineering information or materials provided by the customer or a third party, delays or difficulties in equipment and material delivery, schedule changes, delays from our customer failure to timely obtain permits or rights-of-way or meet other regulatory requirements, weather-related delays and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, that impact our ability to complete the project in accordance with the original delivery schedule. in addition, we occasionally contract with third-party subcontractors to assist us with the completion of contracts. any delay or failure by suppliers or by subcontractors in the completion of their portion of the project may result in delays in the overall progress of the project or may cause us to incur additional costs, or both. we also may encounter project delays due to local opposition, which may include injunctive actions as well as public protests, to the siting of electric power, natural gas or oil transmission lines, solar or wind projects, or other facilities. delays and additional costs may be substantial and, in some cases, we may be required to compensate the customer for such delays. we may not be able to recover all of such costs. in certain circumstances, we guarantee project completion by a scheduled acceptance date or achievement of certain acceptance and performance testing levels. failure to meet any of our schedules or performance requirements could also result in additional costs or penalties, including liquidated damages, and such amounts could exceed expected project profit. in extreme cases, the above-mentioned factors could cause project cancellations, and we may not be able to replace such projects with similar projects or at all. such delays or cancellations may impact our reputation or relationships with customers, adversely affecting our ability to secure new contracts. our customers may change or delay various elements of the project after its commencement or the project schedule or the design, engineering information, equipment or materials that are to be provided by the customer or other parties may be deficient or delivered later than required by the project schedule, resulting in additional direct or indirect costs. under these circumstances, we generally negotiate with the customer with respect to the amount of additional time required and the compensation to be paid to us. we are subject to the risk that we may be unable to obtain, through negotiation, arbitration, litigation or otherwise, adequate amounts to compensate us for the additional work or expenses incurred by us due to customer-requested change orders or failure by the customer to timely deliver items, such as engineering drawings or materials, required to be provided by the customer. litigation or arbitration of claims for compensation may be lengthy and costly, and it is often difficult to predict when and for how much the claims will be resolved. a failure to obtain adequate compensation for these matters could require us to record a reduction to amounts of revenue and gross profit recognized in prior periods under the percentage-of-completion accounting method. any such adjustments could be substantial. we may also be required to invest significant working capital to fund cost overruns while the resolution of claims is pending, which could adversely affect liquidity and financial results in any given period. under our contracts with our customers, we typically provide a warranty for the services we provide, guaranteeing the work performed against defects in workmanship and material. the majority of our contracts have a warranty period of 12 months. as much of the work we perform is inspected by our customers for any defects in construction prior to acceptance of the project, the warranty claims that we have historically received have been minimal. additionally, materials used in construction are often provided by the customer or are warranted against 13 defects from the supplier. however, certain projects, such as utility-scale solar facilities, may have longer warranty periods and include facility performance warranties that may be broader than the warranties we generally provide. in these circumstances, if warranty claims occurred, it could require us to re-perform the services or to repair or replace the warranted item, at a cost to us, and could also result in other damages if we are not able to adequately satisfy our warranty obligations. in addition, we may be required under contractual arrangements with our customers to warrant any defects or failures in materials we provide that we purchase from third parties. while we generally require the materials suppliers to provide us warranties that are consistent with those we provide to the customers, if any of these suppliers default on their warranty obligations to us, we may incur costs to repair or replace the defective materials for which we are not reimbursed. costs incurred as a result of warranty claims could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our use of fixed price contracts could adversely affect our business and results of operations. we currently generate a portion of our revenues under fixed price contracts. we also expect to generate a greater portion of our revenues under this type of contract in the future as larger projects, such as electric power and pipeline transmission build-outs and utility-scale solar facilities, become a more significant aspect of our business. we must estimate the costs of completing a particular project to bid for fixed price contracts. the actual cost of labor and materials, however, may vary from the costs we originally estimated, and we may bear the risk of certain unforeseen circumstances not included in our cost estimates for which we cannot obtain adequate compensation. these variations, along with other risks inherent in performing fixed price contracts, may cause actual revenue and gross profits for a project to differ from those we originally estimated and could result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. depending upon the size of a particular project, variations from the estimated contract costs could have a significant impact on our operating results for any fiscal period. our use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits. as discussed in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data , a significant portion of our revenues are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, utilizing the cost-to-cost method. this method is used because management considers expended costs to be the best available measure of progress on these contracts. this accounting method is generally accepted for fixed price contracts. the percentage-of-completion accounting practice we use results in our recognizing contract revenues and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. the earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability. contract losses are recognized in full when determined to be probable and reasonably estimatable, and contract profit estimates are adjusted based on ongoing reviews of contract profitability. further, a substantial portion of our contracts contain various cost and performance incentives. penalties are recorded when known or finalized, which generally occurs during the latter stages of the contract. in addition, we record cost recovery claims when we believe recovery is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. actual collection of claims could differ from estimated amounts and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings. in certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be significant. our operating results can be negatively affected by weather conditions. we perform substantially all of our services in the outdoors. as a result, adverse weather conditions, such as rainfall or snow, may affect our productivity in performing our services or may temporarily prevent us from performing services. the effect of weather delays on projects that are under fixed price arrangements may be greater if we are unable to adjust the project schedule for such delays. a reduction in our productivity in any given period or our inability to meet guaranteed schedules may adversely affect the profitability of our projects, and as a result, our results of operations. 14 we may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth. our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to: expand the range of services we offer to customers to address their evolving network needs; attract new customers; increase the number of projects performed for existing customers; hire and retain qualified employees; expand geographically, including internationally; and address the challenges presented by difficult economic or market conditions that may affect us or our customers. in addition, our customers may cancel or delay or reduce the number or size of projects available to us due to their inability to obtain capital or pay for services provided, the risk of which increases during unfavorable economic conditions, such as those experienced in the past two years. many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies for achieving internal growth will be successful. our business is highly competitive. the specialty contracting business is served by numerous small, owner-operated private companies, some public companies and several large regional companies. in addition, relatively few barriers prevent entry into some areas of our business. as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become one of our competitors. competition in the industry depends on a number of factors, including price. for example, we are currently experiencing the impacts of competitive pricing in certain of the markets we serve, such as the electric power market with respect to smaller scale transmission projects and distribution services. certain of our competitors may have lower overhead cost structures and, therefore, may be able to provide their services at lower rates than we are able to provide. in addition, some of our competitors have significant resources, including financial, technical and marketing resources. we cannot be certain that our competitors do not have or will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services. similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position within the specialty contracting business or maintain our customer base at current levels. we also may face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers. electric power, natural gas, oil and telecommunications service providers usually employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services we do, and we cannot be certain that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource services in the future. legislative actions and initiatives relating to renewable energy, telecommunications and electric power may fail to result in increased demand for our services. demand for our services may not result from renewable energy initiatives. while many states currently have mandates in place that require specified percentages of power to be generated from renewable sources, states could reduce those mandates or make them optional, which could reduce, delay or eliminate renewable energy development in the affected states. additionally, renewable energy is generally more expensive to produce and may require additional power generation sources as backup. the locations of renewable energy projects are often remote and are not viable unless new or expanded transmission infrastructure to transport the power to demand centers is economically feasible. furthermore, funding for renewable energy initiatives may not be available, which has been further constrained as a result of tight credit markets. these factors have resulted in fewer renewable energy projects than anticipated and a delay in the construction of these projects and the related infrastructure, which has adversely affected the demand for our services. these factors could continue to result in delays or reductions in projects, which could further negatively impact our business. the arra provides for various stimulus programs, such as grants, loan guarantees and tax incentives, relating to renewable energy, energy efficiency and electric power and telecommunications infrastructure. while a 15 significant amount of stimulus funds have been awarded, we cannot predict the timing and scope of any investments to be made under stimulus funding or whether stimulus funding will result in increased demand for our services. investments for renewable energy, electric power infrastructure and telecommunications fiber deployment under arra programs may not occur, may be less than anticipated or may be delayed, any of which would negatively impact demand for our services. other current and potential legislative or regulatory initiatives may not result in increased demand for our services. examples include legislation or regulations to require utilities to meet reliability standards, to ease siting and right-of-way issues for the construction of transmission lines, and to encourage installation of new electric power transmission and renewable energy generation facilities. it is not certain whether existing legislation will create sufficient incentives for new projects, when or if proposed legislative initiatives will be enacted or whether any potentially beneficial provisions will be included in the final legislation. there are also a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to address greenhouse gas emissions, which are in various phases of discussion or implementation. the outcome of federal and state actions to address global climate change could negatively affect the operations of our customers through costs of compliance or restraints on projects, which could reduce their demand for our services. we are self-insured against potential liabilities. although we maintain insurance policies with respect to employer liability, general liability, auto and workers compensation claims, those policies are subject to deductibles ranging from $1.0 million to $5.0 million per occurrence depending on the insurance policy. we are primarily self-insured for all claims that do not exceed the amount of the applicable deductible. we also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $350,000 per claimant per year. our insurance policies include various coverage requirements, including the requirement to give appropriate notice. if we fail to comply with these requirements, our coverage could be denied. losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. these insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the number of incidents not reported. the accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals are adequate. if we were to experience insurance claims or costs significantly above our estimates, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected in a given period. during the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to lawsuits or indemnity claims, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. we have in the past been, and may in the future be, named as a defendant in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings during the ordinary course of our business. these actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract, property damage, environmental liabilities, punitive damages, and civil penalties or other losses or injunctive or declaratory relief. in addition, we generally indemnify our customers for claims related to the services we provide and actions we take under our contracts with them, and, in some instances, we may be allocated risk through our contract terms for actions by our customers or other third parties. because our services in certain instances may be integral to the operation and performance of our customers infrastructure, we have been and may become subject to lawsuits or claims for any failure of the systems that we work on, even if our services are not the cause of such failures, and we could be subject to civil and criminal liabilities to the extent that our services contributed to any property damage, personal injury or system failure. the outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings could result in significant costs and diversion of management attention to the business. payments of significant amounts, even if reserved, could adversely affect our reputation, liquidity and results of operations. for details on our existing litigation and claims, refer to note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. 16 unavailability or cancellation of third party insurance coverage would increase our overall risk exposure as well as disrupt our operations. we maintain insurance coverage from third party insurers as part of our overall risk management strategy and because some of our contracts require us to maintain specific insurance coverage limits. there can be no assurance that any of our existing insurance coverage will be renewed upon the expiration of the coverage period or that future coverage will be affordable at the required limits. in addition, our third party insurers could fail, suddenly cancel our coverage or otherwise be unable to provide us with adequate insurance coverage. if any of these events occur, our overall risk exposure would increase and our operations could be disrupted. for example, we have significant operations in california, which has an environment conducive to wildfires. should our insurer determine to exclude coverage for wildfires in the future, we could be exposed to significant liabilities and potentially a disruption of our california operations. if our risk exposure increases as a result of adverse changes in our insurance coverage, we could be subject to increased claims and liabilities that could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. many of our contracts may be canceled on short notice or may not be renewed upon completion or expiration, and we may be unsuccessful in replacing our contracts in such events, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we could experience a decrease in our revenue, net income and liquidity if any of the following occur: our customers cancel a significant number of contracts or contracts having significant value; we fail to renew a significant number of our existing contracts; we complete a significant number of non-recurring projects and cannot replace them with similar projects; or we fail to reduce operating and overhead expenses consistent with any decrease in our revenue. many of our customers may cancel our contracts on short notice, typically 30 to 90 days, even if we are not in default under the contract. certain of our customers assign work to us on a project-by-project basis under master service agreements. under these agreements, our customers often have no obligation to assign a specific amount of work to us. our operations could decline significantly if the anticipated volume of work is not assigned to us, which will be more likely if customer spending continues to decrease, for example, due to the slow recovery of the economy and the financial markets. many of our contracts, including our master service agreements, are opened to public bid at the expiration of their terms. there can be no assurance that we will be the successful bidder on our existing contracts that come up for re-bid. the loss of one or a few customers could have an adverse effect on us. a few clients have in the past and may in the future account for a significant portion of our revenue in any one year or over a period of several consecutive years. although we have long-standing relationships with many of our significant clients, our clients may unilaterally reduce or discontinue their contracts with us at any time. our loss of business from a significant client could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our profitability and financial condition may be adversely affected by risks associated with the natural gas and oil industry, such as price fluctuations and supply and demand for natural gas. certain of our services, in particular those under our natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services segment, are exposed to risks associated with the natural gas and oil industry. these risks, which are not subject to our control, include the volatility of natural gas and oil prices, the lack of demand for power generation from natural gas and a slowdown in the discovery or development of natural gas and/or oil reserves. specifically, lower natural gas and oil prices generally result in decreased spending by our customers in our natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services segment. while higher natural gas and oil prices generally result in increased infrastructure spending by these customers, sustained high energy prices could be an impediment to economic growth and could result in reduced infrastructure spending by such customers. additionally, higher prices will likely reduce demand for power 17 generation from natural gas, which could result in decreased demand for the expansion of north america natural gas pipeline infrastructure, and consequently result in less capital spending by these customers and less demand for our services. further, if the discovery or development of natural gas and/or oil reserves slowed or stopped, customers would likely reduce capital spending on transmission pipelines, gas gathering and compressor systems and other related infrastructure, resulting in less demand for our services. if the profitability of our business under natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services segment were to decline, our overall profitability, results of operations and cash flows could also be adversely affected. our business is labor intensive, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees. our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability will be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy. for instance, we may experience shortages of qualified journeyman linemen, who are integral to the provision of transmission and distribution services under our electric power infrastructure services segment. in addition, in our natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services segment, there is limited availability of experienced supervisors and foremen that can oversee large transmission pipeline projects. a shortage in the supply of these skilled personnel creates competitive hiring markets and may result in increased labor expenses. labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues. backlog may not be realized or may not result in profits. backlog is difficult to determine with certainty. customers often have no obligation under our contracts to assign or release work to us, and many contracts may be terminated on short notice. reductions in backlog due to cancellation of one or more contracts by a customer or for other reasons could significantly reduce the revenue and profit we actually receive from contracts included in backlog. in the event of a project cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but would not have a contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. the backlog we obtain in connection with any companies we acquire may not be as large as we believed or may not result in the revenue or profits we expected. in addition, projects that are delayed may remain in backlog for extended periods of time. all of these uncertainties are heightened as a result of negative economic conditions and their impact on our customers spending, as well as the effects of regulatory requirements and weather conditions. consequently, we cannot assure that our estimates of backlog are accurate or that we will be able to realize our estimated backlog. our financial results are based upon estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. in preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states, several estimates and assumptions are used by management in determining the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses recognized during the periods presented and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities known to exist as of the date of the financial statements. these estimates and assumptions must be made because certain information that is used in the preparation of our financial statements is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available or is not capable of being readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. in some cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine and we must exercise significant judgment. estimates are primarily used in our assessment of the allowance for doubtful accounts, valuation of inventory, useful lives of assets, fair value assumptions in analyzing goodwill, other intangibles and long-lived asset impairments, valuation of derivative contracts, purchase price allocations, liabilities for self-insured claims, revenue recognition for construction contracts and fiber optic licensing, share-based compensation, operating results of reportable segments, provision for income taxes and the calculation of uncertain tax positions. actual results for all estimates could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 18 our inability to successfully execute our acquisition strategy may have an adverse impact on our growth strategy. our business strategy includes expanding our presence in the industries we serve through strategic acquisitions of companies that complement or enhance our business. the number of acquisition targets that meet our criteria may be limited, and we may also face competition for acquisition opportunities. some of our competitors may offer more favorable terms than us or have greater financial resources than we do. this competition may further limit our acquisition opportunities and our ability to grow through acquisitions or could raise the prices of acquisitions and make them less accretive or possibly not accretive to us. acquisitions that we may pursue may also involve significant cash expenditures, the incurrence or assumption of debt or burdensome regulatory requirements. any acquisition may ultimately have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. any of these factors could inhibit our ability to consummate future acquisitions, which could negatively affect our growth strategies. we may be unsuccessful at integrating businesses that either we have acquired or that we may acquire in the future, which may reduce the anticipated benefit from acquired businesses. as a part of our business strategy, we have acquired, and may seek to acquire in the future, companies that complement or enhance our business. the success of this strategy will depend on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquired businesses, such as the expansion of our existing operations, elimination of redundant costs and capitalizing on cross-selling opportunities. to realize these benefits, however, we must successfully integrate the operations of the acquired businesses with our existing operations. we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully integrate acquired companies with our existing operations without substantial costs, delays, disruptions or other operational or financial problems. additionally, if we do not implement proper overall business controls, our decentralized operating strategy could result in inconsistent operating and financial practices at the companies we acquire. issues related to the integration process may result in adverse impact to our revenues, earnings and cash flows. integrating our acquired companies involves a number of special risks that could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including: failure of acquired companies to achieve the results we expect; diversion of our management attention from operational and other matters; difficulties integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies; inability to retain key personnel of acquired companies; risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities; loss of business due to customer overlap or change from local or private ownership; risks arising from the prior operations of acquired companies, such as performance, operational, safety or workforce issues, or customer dissatisfaction; and potential disruptions of our business. our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of goodwill impairments. when we acquire a business, we record an asset called goodwill equal to the excess amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business we acquire. goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives cannot be amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairment, while intangible assets that have finite useful lives are amortized over their useful lives. the accounting literature provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for impairment. refer to item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting polices for a detailed discussion. management is required to make certain estimates and assumptions when allocating goodwill to reporting units and determining the fair value of a reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the 19 reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. fair value is determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches. absent any impairment indicators, we perform our impairment tests annually during the fourth quarter. if there is a decrease in market capitalization below book value in the future, this may be considered an impairment indicator. any future impairments, including impairments of the goodwill or intangible assets recorded in connection with the acquisitions of valard and price gregory, and other past or future acquisitions, would negatively impact our results of operations for the period in which the impairment is recognized. our profitability and financial operations may be negatively affected by changes in, or interpretations of, existing state or federal telecommunications regulations or new regulations that could adversely affect our fiber optic licensing segment. many of our fiber optic licensing segment customers benefit from the universal service e-rate program, which was established by congress in the 1996 telecommunications act and is administered by the universal service administrative company (usac) under the oversight of the federal communications commission (fcc). under the e-rate program, schools, libraries and certain healthcare facilities may receive subsidies for certain approved telecommunications services, internet access and internal connections. from time to time, bills have been introduced in congress that would eliminate or curtail the e-rate program. passage of such actions by the fcc or usac to further limit e-rate subsidies could decrease the demand by certain customers for the services offered by our fiber optic licensing segment. the telecommunications services we provide through our fiber optic licensing segment are subject to regulation by the fcc, to the extent that they are interstate telecommunications services, and by state regulatory agencies, when wholly within a particular state. to remain eligible to provide services under the e-rate program, we must maintain telecommunications authorizations in every state where we operate, and we must obtain such authorizations in any new state where we plan to operate. changes in federal or state regulations could reduce the profitability of our fiber optic licensing segment, and delays in obtaining new authorizations could inhibit our ability to grow our fiber optic licensing segment in new geographic areas. we could be subject to fines if the fcc or a state regulatory agency were to determine that any of our activities or positions are not in compliance with certain regulations. if the profitability of our fiber optic licensing segment were to decline, or if the business of this segment were to become subject to fines, our overall results of operations and cash flows could also be adversely affected. the business of our fiber optic licensing segment is capital intensive and requires substantial investments, and returns on investments may be less than expected for various reasons. the business of our fiber optic licensing segment requires substantial amounts of capital investment to build out new fiber networks. in 2011, our proposed capital expenditures for our fiber optic licensing business is approximately $30 million to $35 million, $15.1 million of which is related to committed licensing arrangements as of december 31, 2010. although we generally do not commit capital to new networks until we have a committed license arrangement in place with at least one customer, we may not be able to recoup our initial investment in the network if that customer defaults on its commitment. even if the customer does not default or we add additional customers to the network, we still may not realize a return on the capital investment for an extended period of time. furthermore, the amount of capital that we invest in our fiber optic network may exceed planned expenditures as a result of various factors, including difficulty in obtaining permits or rights of way or unexpected increases in costs due to labor, materials or project productivity, which would result in a decrease in the returns on our capital investments if licensing fees for the network were committed and could not be renegotiated. new or developing technologies or significant competition in any of our markets could also negatively impact the business of our fiber optic licensing segment. if any of the above events occur, it could adversely affect our results of operations or result in an impairment of our fiber optic network. we extend credit to customers for purchases of our services and may enter into longer-term deferred payment arrangements or provide other financing or investment arrangements with certain of our customers, which 20 subjects us to potential credit or investment risk that could, if realized, adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we grant credit, generally without collateral, to our customers, which include electric power utilities, oil and gas companies, telecommunications service providers, governmental entities, general contractors, and builders, owners and managers of renewal energy facilities and commercial and industrial properties located primarily in the united states and canada. we may also agree to allow our customers to defer payment on projects until certain milestones have been met or until the projects are substantially completed, and customers typically withhold some portion of amounts due to us as retainage. in addition, we may provide other forms of financing to our customers or make investments in our customers projects, typically in situations where we also provide services in connection with the projects. our payment arrangements with our customers subject us to potential credit risk related to changes in business and economic factors affecting our customers, including material changes in our customers revenues or cash flows. these changes may also reduce the value of any financing or equity investment arrangements we have with our customers. many of our customers have been negatively impacted by the recent economic downturn, and some may experience financial difficulties (including bankruptcies) that could impact our ability to collect amounts owed to us or impair the value of our investments in them. if we are unable to collect amounts owed to us, our cash flows would be reduced and we could experience losses if the uncollectible amounts exceeded current allowances. we would also recognize losses with respect to any investments that are impaired as a result of our customers financial difficulties. losses experienced could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. the risks of collectability and impairment losses may increase for projects where we provide services as well as make a financing or equity investment. the loss of key personnel could disrupt our business. we depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and on senior management of our operating units, including the businesses we acquire. although we have entered into employment agreements with terms of one to three years with most of our executive officers and certain other key employees, we cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time. the loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business. we do not carry key-person life insurance on any of our employees. our unionized workforce and related obligations could adversely affect our operations. as of december 31, 2010, approximately 39% of our hourly employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. although the majority of the collective bargaining agreements prohibit strikes and work stoppages, we cannot be certain that strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the future. strikes or work stoppages would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and could cause us to lose business and decrease our revenue. additionally, our collective bargaining agreements generally require us to participate with other companies in multi-employer pension plans. to the extent those plans are underfunded, the employee retirement income security act of 1974, as amended by the multi-employer pension plan amendments act of 1980, may subject us to substantial liabilities under those plans if we withdraw from them or they are terminated. in addition, the pension protection act of 2006 added new funding rules generally applicable to plan years beginning after 2007 for multi-employer plans that are classified as endangered, seriously endangered, or critical status. for a plan in critical status, additional required contributions and benefit reductions may apply if a plan is determined to be underfunded, which could detrimentally affect our financial condition or results of operations. a number of multi-employer plans to which we contribute or may contribute in the future are in critical status, seriously endangered status or endangered status. with respect to certain of the plans in critical status, we may be required to make additional contributions, generally in the form of surcharges on contributions otherwise required. should we provide in the future a significant amount of services in areas that require us to utilize unionized employees covered by these affected plans, causing us to make substantial contributions, or should a determination be made that additional plans to which any of our operating units contribute are in a critical status requiring additional contributions, it could detrimentally affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows if we are not able to adequately mitigate these costs. 21 our ability to complete future acquisitions could be adversely affected because of our union status for a variety of reasons. for instance, our union agreements may be incompatible with the union agreements of a business we want to acquire and some businesses may not want to become affiliated with a union-based company. additionally, we may increase our exposure to withdrawal liabilities for underfunded multi-employer pension plans to which an acquired company contributes. approximately 61% of our hourly employees are not unionized. the current presidential administration has expressed strong support for proposed legislation that would create more flexibility and opportunity for labor unions to organize non-union workers. if passed, this legislation could result in a greater percentage of our workforce being subject to collective bargaining agreements, heightening the risks described above. in addition, certain of our customers require or prefer a non-union workforce, and they may reduce the amount of work assigned to us if our non-union labor crews were to become unionized, which could negatively affect our business and results of operations. we may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial or reputational impacts relating to occupational health and safety matters. our operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace. while we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources in our occupational health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operational risk and there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant liability exposure. although we have taken what we believe are appropriate precautions, we have suffered fatalities in the past and may suffer additional fatalities in the future. serious accidents, including fatalities, may subject us to substantial penalties, civil litigation or criminal prosecution. claims for damages to persons, including claims for bodily injury or loss of life, could result in substantial costs and liabilities, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, if our safety record were to substantially deteriorate over time or we were to suffer substantial penalties or criminal prosecution for violation of health and safety regulations, our customers could cancel our contracts and not award us future business. risks associated with operating in international markets could restrict our ability to expand globally and harm our business and prospects, and we could be adversely affected by our failure to comply with the laws applicable to our foreign activities, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and other similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. our international operations are presently conducted primarily in canada, but we have performed work in south africa, mexico and various other foreign countries, and we expect that the number of countries in which we operate could expand significantly over the next few years. economic conditions, including those resulting from wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts or volatility in the global markets, may adversely affect our customers, their demand for our services and their ability to pay for our services. in addition, there are numerous risks inherent in conducting our business internationally, including, but not limited to, potential instability in international markets, changes in regulatory requirements applicable to international operations, currency fluctuations in foreign countries, political, economic and social conditions in foreign countries and complex u.s. and foreign laws and treaties, including tax laws and the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa). these risks could restrict our ability to provide services to international customers or to operate our international business profitably, and our overall business and results of operations could be negatively impacted by our foreign activities. the fcpa and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions prohibit u.s.-based companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. we pursue opportunities in certain parts of the world that experience government corruption, and in certain circumstances, compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. our policies mandate compliance with all applicable anti-bribery laws. further, we require our partners, subcontractors, agents and others who work for us or on our behalf to comply with the fcpa and other anti-bribery laws. although we have policies and procedures designed to ensure that we, our employees, our agents and others who work with us in foreign countries comply with the fcpa and other anti-bribery laws, there is no assurance that such policies or procedures will protect us against liability under the fcpa or other laws for actions taken by our agents, employees 22 and intermediaries. if we are found to be liable for fcpa violations (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer from severe criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged fcpa violations is expensive and could consume significant time and attention of our senior management. we may not have access in the future to sufficient funding to finance desired growth and operations. if we cannot secure funds in the future, including financing on acceptable terms, we may be unable to support our growth strategy or future operations. we cannot readily predict the ability of certain customers to pay for past services, and unfavorable economic conditions, such as those experienced over the past two years, may negatively impact the ability of our customers to pay amounts owed to us. we may also use cash for acquisitions, as well as for investments in projects in which we provide services, both of which are elements of our growth strategy, but we cannot readily predict the timing, size and success of our acquisition or investment efforts. using cash for acquisitions and investments limits our financial flexibility and makes us more likely to seek additional capital through future debt or equity financings. our existing credit facility contains significant restrictions on our operational and financial flexibility, including our ability to incur additional debt or conduct equity financings, and if we seek more debt we may have to agree to additional covenants that limit our operational and financial flexibility. if we seek additional debt or equity financings, we cannot be certain that additional debt or equity will be available to us on terms acceptable to us or at all, in particular taking into account recent constraints in the financial markets. furthermore, our credit facility is based upon existing commitments from several banks. banks have become more restrictive in their lending practices following the difficulties in the credit markets, and some may be unable or unwilling to fund their commitments, which may limit our access to the capital needed to fund our growth and operations. our existing credit facility will expire in september 2012, and we may not be able to obtain commitments from banks to replace or renew our existing credit facility in an equivalent amount or at all. additionally, any new credit facility that replaces or renews the existing facility may be on terms that are more restrictive or costly. in the event that our credit facility is not replaced or renewed prior to october 2011, we may also be required to provide cash as collateral for any existing or new letters of credit that have maturity dates beyond the expiration date of our existing credit facility. in addition, we rely on financing companies to fund the leasing of certain of our trucks and trailers, support vehicles and specialty construction equipment. credit market conditions may cause certain of these financing companies to restrict or withhold access to capital to fund the leasing of additional equipment. although we are not dependent on any single equipment lessor, a widespread lack of available capital to fund the leasing of equipment could negatively impact our future operations. additionally, the market price of our common stock may change significantly in response to various factors and events beyond our control, which will impact our ability to use equity to obtain funds. a variety of events may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly, including overall market conditions or volatility, a shortfall in our operating results from those anticipated, negative results or other unfavorable information relating to our market peers or the risks described in this annual report on form 10-k. our participation in joint ventures exposes us to liability and/or harm to our reputation for failures of our partners. as part of our business, we have entered into joint venture arrangements and may enter into additional joint venture arrangements in the future. the purpose of these joint ventures is typically to combine skills and resources to allow for the performance of particular projects. success on these jointly performed projects depends in large part on whether our joint venture partners satisfy their contractual obligations. we and our joint venture partners are generally jointly and severally liable for all liabilities and obligations of our joint ventures. if a joint venture partner fails to perform or is financially unable to bear its portion of required capital contributions or other obligations, including liabilities stemming from claims or lawsuits, we could be required to make additional investments, provide additional services or pay more than our proportionate share of a liability to make up for our partner shortfall. further, if we are unable to adequately address our partner performance issues, the customer may terminate the project, which could result in legal liability to us, harm our reputation and reduce our profit on a project. 23 we are in the process of implementing an information technology ( it ) solution, which could temporarily disrupt day-to-day operations at certain operating units. we continue to implement a comprehensive it solution that we believe will allow for the interface between functions such as accounting and finance, human resources, operations, and fleet management. continued development and implementation of the it solution will require substantial financial and personnel resources. while the it solution is intended to improve and enhance our information systems, implementation of new information systems at each operating unit exposes us to the risks of start-up of the new system and integration of that system with our existing systems and processes, including possible disruption of our financial reporting. failure to properly implement the it solution could result in substantial disruptions to our business, including coordinating and processing our normal business activities, testing and recording of certain data necessary to provide oversight over our disclosure controls and procedures and effective internal controls over our financial reporting, and other unforeseen problems. our dependence on suppliers, subcontractors and equipment manufacturers could expose us to the risk of loss in our operations. on certain projects, we rely on suppliers to obtain the necessary materials and subcontractors to perform portions of our services. we also rely on equipment manufacturers to provide us with the equipment required to conduct our operations. although we are not dependent on any single supplier, subcontractor or equipment manufacturer, any substantial limitation on the availability of required suppliers, subcontractors or equipment manufacturers could negatively impact our operations. the risk of a lack of available suppliers, subcontractors or equipment manufacturers may be heightened as a result of recent market and economic conditions. to the extent we cannot engage subcontractors or acquire equipment or materials, we could experience losses in the performance of our operations. fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates may have a greater impact on our financial results as we expand into international markets. while only a small percentage of our revenue is currently derived from international markets, we intend to continue to expand the volume of services that we provide internationally. as a result, our reported financial condition and results of operations may be more significantly exposed to the effects (both positive and negative) that fluctuating exchange rates have on the process of translating the financial statements of our international operations, which are denominated in local currencies, into the u.s. dollar. our business growth could outpace the capability of our corporate management infrastructure. we cannot be certain that our infrastructure will be adequate to support our operations as they expand. future growth also could impose significant additional responsibilities on members of our senior management, including the need to recruit and integrate new senior level managers and executives. we cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain such additional managers and executives. to the extent that we are unable to manage our growth effectively, or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified management, we may not be able to expand our operations or execute our business plan. a portion of our business depends on our ability to provide surety bonds. we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects if we are not able to obtain the necessary surety bonds. current or future market conditions, including losses incurred in the construction industry or as a result of large corporate bankruptcies, as well as changes in our sureties assessment of our operating and financial risk, could cause our surety providers to decline to issue or renew, or substantially reduce the amount of, bid and/or performance bonds for our work and could increase our bonding costs. these actions could be taken on short notice. if our surety providers were to limit or eliminate our access to bonding, our alternatives would include seeking bonding capacity from other sureties, finding more business that does not require bonds and posting other forms of collateral for project performance, such as letters of credit or cash. we may be unable to secure these alternatives in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all, which could affect our ability to bid for or work on future projects requiring financial assurances. 24 we have also granted security interests in various of our assets to collateralize our obligations to our sureties. furthermore, under standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue or continue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing or renewing any bonds. if we were to experience an interruption or reduction in the availability of bonding capacity as a result of these or any other reasons, we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects that would require bonding. our failure to comply with environmental laws could result in significant liabilities. our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including those dealing with the handling and disposal of waste products, pcbs, fuel storage and air quality. we perform work in many different types of underground environments. if the field location maps supplied to us are not accurate, or if objects are present in the soil that are not indicated on the field location maps, our underground work could strike objects in the soil, some of which may contain pollutants. these objects may also rupture, resulting in the discharge of pollutants. in such circumstances, we may be liable for fines and damages, and we may be unable to obtain reimbursement from the parties providing the incorrect information. we perform work in and around environmentally sensitive areas such as rivers, lakes and wetlands. in addition, we perform directional drilling operations below certain environmentally sensitive terrains and water bodies. due to the inconsistent nature of the terrain and water bodies, it is possible that such directional drilling may cause a surface fracture, resulting in the release of subsurface materials. these subsurface materials may contain contaminants in excess of amounts permitted by law, potentially exposing us to remediation costs and fines. we also own and lease several facilities at which we store our equipment. some of these facilities contain fuel storage tanks that are above or below ground. if these tanks were to leak, we could be responsible for the cost of remediation as well as potential fines. in addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or leaks, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur significant costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. in certain instances, we have obtained indemnification or covenants from third parties (including predecessors or lessors) for such clean-up and other obligations and liabilities that we believe are adequate to cover such obligations and liabilities. however, such third-party indemnities or covenants may not cover all of our costs, and such unanticipated obligations or liabilities, or future obligations and liabilities, may have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition or cash flows. further, we cannot be certain that we will be able to identify or be indemnified for all potential environmental liabilities relating to any acquired business. there are also other legislative and regulatory proposals to address greenhouse gas emissions. these proposals, if enacted, could result in a variety of regulatory programs including potential new regulations, additional charges to fund energy efficiency activities, or other regulatory actions. any of these actions could result in increased costs associated with our operations and impact the prices we charge our customers. for example, if new regulations are adopted regulating greenhouse gas emissions from mobile sources such as cars and trucks, we could experience a significant increase in environmental compliance costs in light of our large rolling-stock fleet. in addition, if our operations are perceived to result in high greenhouse gas emissions, our reputation could suffer. opportunities within the government arena could subject us to increased governmental regulation and costs. most government contracts are awarded through a regulated competitive bidding process. as we pursue increased opportunities in the government arena, management focus associated with the start-up and bidding process may be diverted away from other opportunities. involvement with government contracts could require a significant amount of costs to be incurred before any revenues are realized from these contracts. in addition, as a government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and other public sector liabilities, any deemed violation of which could lead to fines or penalties or a loss of business. government agencies routinely audit and investigate government contractors. government agencies may review a contractor performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. if government agencies determine through these audits or reviews that costs were improperly allocated to specific contracts, they will not reimburse the contractor for those costs or may require the contractor to refund previously reimbursed costs. if 25 government agencies determine that we engaged in improper activity, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties. in addition, if the government were to even allege improper activity, we also could experience serious harm to our reputation. many government contracts must be appropriated each year. if appropriations are not made in subsequent years we would not realize all of the potential revenues from any awarded contracts. we may not be successful in continuing to meet the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 has many requirements applicable to us regarding corporate governance and financial reporting, including the requirements for management to report on our internal controls over financial reporting and for our independent registered public accounting firm to express an opinion over the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. during 2010, we continued actions to ensure our ability to comply with these requirements. as of december 31, 2010, our internal control over financial reporting was effective; however, there can be no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in future years. failure to maintain effective internal controls or the identification of significant internal control deficiencies in acquisitions already made or made in the future could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock and our other publicly traded securities, the reduced ability to obtain financing, the loss of customers, penalties and additional expenditures to meet the requirements. if we are unable to enforce our intellectual property rights or if our intellectual property rights become obsolete, our competitive position could be adversely impacted. we utilize a variety of intellectual property rights in our services. we view our portfolio of proprietary energized services tools and techniques as well as our other process and design technologies as one of our competitive strengths, and we use it as part of our efforts to differentiate our service offerings. we may not be able to successfully preserve these intellectual property rights in the future and these rights could be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries in which our services may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. we also license certain technologies from third parties, and there is a risk that our relationships with licensors may terminate or expire or may be interrupted or harmed. if we are unable to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights, or if there are any successful intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings against us, our ability to differentiate our service offerings could be reduced. in addition, if our intellectual property rights or work processes become obsolete, we may not be able to differentiate our service offerings, and some of our competitors may be able to offer more attractive services to our customers. as a result, our business and revenue could be materially and adversely affected. we may incur additional healthcare costs arising from federal healthcare reform legislation. in march 2010, the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 were signed into law in the u.s. this legislation expands health care coverage to many uninsured individuals and expands coverage to those already insured. the changes required by this legislation could cause us to incur additional healthcare and other costs, although we do not expect any material short-term impact on our financial results as a result of the legislation. we are currently assessing the extent of any long-term impact from the legislation, including any potential changes to this legislation. certain provisions of our corporate governing documents could make an acquisition of our company more difficult. the following provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as currently in effect, as well as delaware law, could discourage potential proposals to acquire us, delay or prevent a change in control of us or limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock: our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to issue blank check preferred stock and to adopt amendments to our bylaws; our bylaws contain restrictions regarding the right of stockholders to nominate directors and to submit proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings; 26 our certificate of incorporation and bylaws restrict the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to act by written consent; and we are subject to provisions of delaware law which prohibit us from engaging in any of a broad range of business transactions with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date such stockholder became classified as an interested stockholder. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary exposure to market risk relates to unfavorable changes in concentration of credit risk, interest rates and currency exchange rates. credit risk. we are subject to concentrations of credit risk related primarily to our cash and cash equivalents and our accounts receivable, including amounts related to unbilled accounts receivable and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts. substantially all of our cash investments are managed by what we believe to be high credit quality financial institutions. in accordance with our investment policies, these institutions are authorized to invest this cash in a diversified portfolio of what we believe to be high-quality investments, which primarily include interest-bearing demand deposits, money market mutual funds and investment grade commercial paper with original maturities of three months or less. although we do not currently believe the principal amounts of these investments are subject to any material risk of loss, the weakness in the economy has significantly impacted the interest income we receive from these investments and is likely to continue to do so in the future. in addition, as we grant credit under normal payment terms, generally with collateral, we are subject to potential credit risk related to our customers ability to pay for services provided. this risk may be heightened as a result of the depressed economic and financial market conditions that have existed over the past two years. however, we believe the concentration of credit risk related to trade accounts receivable and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts is limited because of the diversity of our customers. we perform ongoing credit risk assessments of our customers and financial institutions and obtain collateral or other security from our customers when appropriate. interest rate and market risk. currently, we do not have any significant assets or obligations with exposure to significant interest rate and market risk. currency risk. in the third quarter of 2009, one of our canadian operating units entered into three forward contracts with settlement dates in 2009 and 2010, to reduce foreign currency risk associated with anticipated customer sales that were denominated in south african rand. this same operating unit also entered into three additional forward contracts with the same settlement dates to reduce the foreign currency exposure associated with a series of forecasted intercompany payments denominated in u.s. dollars to be made over a twelve-month period. these contracts were accounted for as cash flow hedges. accordingly, changes in the fair value of the forward contracts were recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) prior to their settlement and were reclassified into earnings in the periods in which the hedged transactions occurred. the south african rand to canadian dollar forward contracts had an aggregate notional amount of approximately $11.0 million ($cad) at origination, and the canadian dollar to u.s. dollar forward contracts had an aggregate notional amount of approximately $9.5 million (u.s.) at origination. during the year ended december 31, 2010, net losses of $0.4 million were recorded in income in connection with the settled contracts. there were no forward contracts outstanding at december 31, 2010, and as a result, there is no balance related to the forward contracts in other comprehensive income. during the year ended december 31, 2009, losses of $0.8 million were recorded in income in connection with the settled contracts, and at december 31, 2009, there was $0.4 million in other comprehensive income (loss) related to the forward contracts. 61quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 33 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk primarily related to potential adverse changes in interest rates and, to a certain extent, commodity prices, as discussed below. management does not generally use derivative financial instruments for trading or to speculate on changes in interest rates or commodity prices. as of december 31, 2002, however, we had a derivative contract outstanding that related to anticipated exposure in the price of natural gas. we monitor our derivative position by regularly evaluating our position. management is actively involved in monitoring exposure to market risk and continues to develop and utilize appropriate risk management techniques. we are not exposed to any other significant market risks, foreign currency exchange risk or interest rate risk from the use of derivative financial instruments. the sensitivity analyses below, which illustrate our hypothetical potential market risk exposure, estimate the effects of hypothetical sudden and sustained changes in the applicable market conditions on 2002 earnings. the sensitivity analyses presented do not consider any additional actions we may take to mitigate our exposure to such changes. the hypothetical changes and assumptions may be different from what actually occurs in the future. interest rates. as of december 31, 2002, we had no derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate risk. as such, we are exposed to earnings and fair value risk due to changes in interest rates with respect to our long-term obligations. as of december 31, 2001 and 2002, the fair value of our fixed-rate debt of $399.0 million and $392.3 million was approximately $357.1 million and $317.3 million, respectively, based upon discounted future cash flows using incremental borrowing rates and current market prices. as of december 31, 2001, the fair value of our variable rate debt of $109.3 million approximated book value and the detrimental effect on our pretax earnings of a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in fixed interest rates would be approximately $0.5 million. as of december 31, 2002, we had no borrowings under our credit facility and no other variable rate obligations. commodity price exposure. in october 2001, we entered into a forward purchase contract (contract a) with settlements through 2006, in order to secure pricing on anticipated gas requirements related to a project in process at december 31, 2001 that was substantially complete at march 31, 2002. our objective was to mitigate the variability in the price of natural gas by securing the price we will have to pay to the contract a counterparty. on march 29, 2002, we entered into a sub-services agreement with one of our customers (the counterparty contract) whereby the customer assumed all obligations associated with contract a. on november 5, 2002, contract a was sold for a gain of $0.3 million and the related counterparty contract was terminated. in april 2002, we entered into another forward purchase contract (contract b) with settlements through march 2003, in order to secure pricing on anticipated gas requirements related to a project completed during the quarter ended september 30, 2002. our objective was to mitigate the variability in the price of natural gas by securing the price we will have to pay the contract b counterparty. as of december 31, 2002, the fair value of contract b was approximately $257,000. 33quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 32 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk primarily related to potential adverse changes in interest rates and, to a certain extent, commodity prices, as discussed below. management does not generally use derivative financial instruments for trading or to speculate on changes in interest rates or commodity prices. as of december 31, 2002, however, we had a derivative contract outstanding that related to anticipated exposure in the price of natural gas. we monitor our derivative position by regularly evaluating our position. management is actively involved in monitoring exposure to market risk and continues to develop and utilize appropriate risk management techniques. we are not exposed to any other significant market risks, foreign currency exchange risk or interest rate risk from the use of derivative financial instruments. the sensitivity analyses below, which illustrate our hypothetical potential market risk exposure, estimate the effects of hypothetical sudden and sustained changes in the applicable market conditions on 2002 earnings. the sensitivity analyses presented do not consider any additional actions we may take to mitigate our exposure to such changes. the hypothetical changes and assumptions may be different from what actually occurs in the future. interest rates. as of december 31, 2002, we had no derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate risk. as such, we are exposed to earnings and fair value risk due to changes in interest rates with respect to our long-term obligations. as of december 31, 2001 and 2002, the fair value of our fixed-rate debt of $399.0 million and $392.3 million was approximately $357.1 million and $317.3 million, respectively, based upon discounted future cash flows using incremental borrowing rates and current market prices. as of december 31, 2001, the fair value of our variable rate debt of $109.3 million approximated book value and the detrimental effect on our pretax earnings of a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in fixed interest rates would be approximately $0.5 million. as of december 31, 2002, we had no borrowings under our credit facility and no other variable rate obligations. commodity price exposure. in october 2001, we entered into a forward purchase contract (contract a) with settlements through 2006, in order to secure pricing on anticipated gas requirements related to a project in process at december 31, 2001 that was substantially complete at march 31, 2002. our objective was to mitigate the variability in the price of natural gas by securing the price we will have to pay to the contract a counterparty. on march 29, 2002, we entered into a sub-services agreement with one of our customers (the counterparty contract) whereby the customer assumed all obligations associated with contract a. on november 5, 2002, contract a was sold for a gain of $0.3 million and the related counterparty contract was terminated. in april 2002, we entered into another forward purchase contract (contract b) with settlements through march 2003, in order to secure pricing on anticipated gas requirements related to a project completed during the quarter ended september 30, 2002. our objective was to mitigate the variability in the price of natural gas by securing the price we will have to pay the contract b counterparty. as of december 31, 2002, the fair value of contract b was approximately $257,000. 32quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 32 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk related to potential adverse changes in interest rates. management does not generally use derivative financial instruments for trading or to speculate on changes in interest rates or commodity prices. management is actively involved in monitoring exposure to market risk and continues to develop and utilize appropriate risk management techniques. we are not exposed to any other significant market risks, foreign currency exchange risk or interest rate risk from the use of derivative financial instruments. the sensitivity analyses below, which illustrate our hypothetical potential market risk exposure, estimate the effects of hypothetical sudden and sustained changes in the applicable market conditions on 2003 earnings. the sensitivity analyses presented do not consider any additional actions we may take to mitigate our exposure to such changes. the hypothetical changes and assumptions may be different from what actually occurs in the future. interest rates. as of december 31, 2003, we had no derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate risk. as such, we are exposed to earnings and fair value risk due to changes in interest rates with respect to our long-term obligations. as of december 31, 2002 and 2003, the fair value of our fixed-rate debt of $392.3 million and $449.6 million was approximately $317.3 million and $449.2 million, respectively, based upon discounted future cash flows using incremental borrowing rates and current market prices. as of december 31, 2003, the fair value of our variable rate debt of $56.0 million approximated book value and the detrimental effect on our pretax earnings of a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in variable interest rates would be approximately $0.3 million. as of december 31, 2002, we had no borrowings under our credit facility and no other variable rate obligations. 32 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 35 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk related to potential adverse changes in interest rates. management does not generally use derivative financial instruments for trading or to speculate on changes in interest rates or commodity prices. management is actively involved in monitoring exposure to market risk and continues to develop and utilize appropriate risk management techniques. we are not exposed to any other significant market risks, foreign currency exchange risk or interest rate risk from the use of derivative financial instruments. the sensitivity analyses below, which illustrate our hypothetical potential market risk exposure, estimate the effects of hypothetical sudden and sustained changes in the applicable market conditions on 2004 earnings. the sensitivity analyses presented do not consider any additional actions we may take to mitigate our exposure to such changes. the hypothetical changes and assumptions may be different from what actually occurs in the future. interest rates. as of december 31, 2004, we had no derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate risk. as such, we are exposed to earnings and fair value risk due to changes in interest rates with respect to our long-term obligations. as of december 31, 2003 and 2004, the fair value of our fixed-rate debt of 35 table of contents $449.6 million and $449.8 million was approximately $449.2 million and $469.3 million, based upon current market prices. as of december 31, 2003, the fair value of our variable rate debt of $56.0 million approximated book value and the detrimental effect on our pretax earnings of a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in variable interest rates would be approximately $0.3 million. as of december 31, 2004, the fair value of our variable rate debt of $20.8 million approximated book value and the detrimental effect on our pretax earnings of a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in variable interest rates would be approximately $0.1 million. 36 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors our business is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described below. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below also may impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed and we may not be able to achieve our goals. this annual report also includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions, or beliefs about future events that are intended as forward-looking statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and should be read in conjunction with the section entitled uncertainty of forward-looking statements and information, included in item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. we experience lower gross and operating margins during winter months due to lower demand for our services and more difficult operating conditions. additionally, our quarterly results also may be materially and adversely affected by: the timing and volume of work under contract; regional or general economic conditions; the budgetary spending patterns of customers; variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular quarter; 11 table of contents a change in the demand for our services caused by severe weather conditions; increases in construction and design costs; the termination of existing agreements; losses experienced in our operations not otherwise covered by insurance; a change in the mix of our customers, contracts and business; payment risk associated with the financial condition of our customers; changes in bonding and lien requirements applicable to existing and new agreements; costs we incur to support growth internally or through acquisitions or otherwise; the timing of acquisitions; and the timing and magnitude of acquisition integration costs. accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that you can expect for any other quarter or for the entire year. an economic downturn may lead to less demand for our services. because the vast majority of our revenue is derived from a few industries, a downturn in any of those industries would adversely affect our results of operations. the telecommunications and utility markets experienced substantial change during 2002 and 2003 as evidenced by an increased number of bankruptcies in the telecommunications market, continued devaluation of many of our customers debt and equity securities and pricing pressures resulting from challenges faced by major industry participants. these factors contributed to the delay and cancellation of projects and reduction of capital spending, which impacted our operations and our ability to grow at historical levels. a number of other factors, including financing conditions for and potential bankruptcies in the industries we serve, could adversely affect our customers and their ability or willingness to fund capital expenditures in the future or pay for past services. in addition, consolidation, competition or capital constraints in the electric power, gas, telecommunications or cable television industries may result in reduced spending by, or the loss of, one or more of our customers. our industry is highly competitive. our industry is served by numerous small, owner-operated private companies, a few public companies and several large regional companies. in addition, relatively few barriers prevent entry into some of our industries. as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become one of our competitors. competition in the industry depends on a number of factors, including price. certain of our competitors may have lower overhead cost structures and, therefore, may be able to provide their services at lower rates than we are able to provide. in addition, some of our competitors have greater resources than we do. we cannot be certain that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services. similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position within our industry or maintain a customer base at current levels. we also may face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers. electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television service providers usually employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services we do. we cannot be certain that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource services in the future. we may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth. our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to: expand the range of services we offer to customers to address their evolving network needs; attract new customers; increase the number of projects performed for existing customers; hire and retain qualified employees; and open additional facilities. 12 table of contents in addition, our customers may reduce the number or size of projects available to us due to their inability to obtain capital or pay for services provided. many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies will be successful or that we will be able to generate cash flow sufficient to fund our operations and to support internal growth. if we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to achieve internal growth, expand our operations or grow our business. our financial results are based upon estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. in preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states, several estimates and assumptions are used by management in determining the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses recognized during the periods presented and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities known to exist as of the date of the financial statements. these estimates and assumptions must be made because certain information that is used in the preparation of our financial statements is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available or is not capable of being readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. in some cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine and we must exercise significant judgment. estimates are primarily used in our assessment of the allowance for doubtful accounts, valuation of inventory, useful lives of property and equipment, fair value assumptions in analyzing goodwill and long-lived asset impairments, self-insured claims liabilities, revenue recognition under percentage-of-completion accounting and provision for income taxes. actual results for all estimates could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are self-insured against potential liabilities. although we maintain insurance policies with respect to automobile, general liability, workers compensation and employers liability, those policies are subject to deductibles of $1.0 million to $2.0 million per occurrence, and we are primarily self-insured for all claims that do not exceed the amount of the applicable deductible. we also maintain a non-union employee related health care benefit plan that is subject to a deductible of $250,000 per claimant per year. losses up to the deductible amounts are accrued based upon our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims incurred and an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported, with assistance from a third-party actuary. however, insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety program. if we were to experience insurance claims or costs significantly above our estimates, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected in a given period. our casualty insurance carrier for prior periods is experiencing financial distress, which may require us to make payments for losses that otherwise would be insured. our casualty insurance carrier for the policy periods from august 1, 2000 to february 28, 2003 is experiencing financial distress, but is currently paying valid claims. in the event that this insurer financial situation deteriorates, we may be required to pay certain obligations that otherwise would have been paid by this insurer. we estimate that the total future claim amount that this insurer is currently obligated to pay on our behalf for the above mentioned policy periods is approximately $4.7 million; however, our estimate of the potential range of these future claim amounts is between $3.0 million and $8.0 million. the actual amounts ultimately paid by us related to these claims, if any, may vary materially from the above range and could be impacted by further claims development and the extent to which the insurer can not honor its obligations. in any event, we do not expect any failure by this insurer to honor its obligations to us to have a material adverse impact on our financial condition; however, the impact could be material to our results of operations or cash flow in a given period. we may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial impact relating to occupational health and safety matters. our operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace. while we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources in our occupational health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operational risk and there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant liability exposure. although we have taken what we believe are appropriate precautions, we have suffered fatalities in the past and may suffer additional fatalities in the future. claims for damages to persons, including claims for bodily injury or loss of life, could result in substantial costs 13 table of contents and liabilities. in addition, if our safety record were to substantially deteriorate over time, our customers could cancel our contracts and not award us future business. our use of percentage-of -completion accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits. as discussed in critical accounting policies and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included herein, a significant portion of our revenues is recognized on a percentage-of -completion method of accounting, using the cost-to -cost method. this method is used because management considers expended costs to be the best available measure of progress on these contracts. this accounting method is standard for fixed-price contracts. the percentage-of -completion accounting practice we use results in our recognizing contract revenues and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. the earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability. contract losses are recognized in full when determined, and contract profit estimates are adjusted based on ongoing reviews of contract profitability. further, a substantial portion of our contracts contain various cost and performance incentives. penalties are recorded when known or finalized, which generally is during the latter stages of the contract. in addition, we record cost recovery claims when we believe recovery is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. actual collection of claims could differ from estimated amounts and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings. in certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be significant. our dependence upon fixed price contracts could adversely affect our business. we currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, a portion of our revenues under fixed price contracts. we must estimate the costs of completing a particular project to bid for fixed price contracts. the cost of labor and materials, however, may vary from the costs we originally estimated. these variations, along with other risks inherent in performing fixed price contracts, may cause actual revenue and gross profits for a project to differ from those we originally estimated and could result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. depending upon the size of a particular project, variations from the estimated contract costs could have a significant impact on our operating results for any fiscal quarter or year. we extend credit to customers for purchases of our services, and in the past we have had, and in the future we may have, difficulty collecting receivables from major customers that have filed bankruptcy or are otherwise experiencing financial difficulties. we grant credit, generally without collateral, to our customers, which include electric power and gas companies, telecommunications and cable television system operators, governmental entities, general contractors, and builders, owners and managers of commercial and industrial properties located primarily in the united states. consequently, we are subject to potential credit risk related to changes in business and economic factors throughout the united states. our customers in the telecommunications business have experienced significant financial difficulties and in several instances have filed for bankruptcy. a number of our utility customers are also experiencing business challenges in the current business climate. if additional major customers file for bankruptcy or continue to experience financial difficulties, or if anticipated recoveries relating to receivables in existing bankruptcies or other workout situations fail to materialize, we could experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of current allowances provided. in addition, material changes in any of our customer revenues or cash flows could affect our ability to collect amounts due from them. the industries we serve are subject to rapid technological and structural changes that could reduce the demand for the services we provide. the electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television industries are undergoing rapid change as a result of technological advances that could, in certain cases, reduce the demand for our services or otherwise negatively impact our business. new or developing technologies could displace the wireline systems used for voice, video and data transmissions, and improvements in existing technology may allow telecommunications and cable television companies to significantly improve their networks without physically upgrading them. a portion of our business depends on our ability to provide surety bonds. we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects if we are not able to obtain the necessary surety bonds. surety market conditions currently are difficult as a result of significant losses incurred by many sureties in recent periods, both in the construction industry as well as in certain larger corporate bankruptcies. as a result, less bonding 14 table of contents capacity is available in the market and terms have become more expensive and restrictive. we have posted letters of credit in the amount of $15.0 million to support our surety bond program and have granted security interests in various of our assets to collateralize our obligations to the surety. further, under standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue or continue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing or renewing any bonds. current or future market conditions, as well as changes in our surety assessment of our operating and financial risk, could cause our surety provider to decline to issue or renew, or substantially reduce the amount of, bonds for our work and could increase our bonding costs. these actions could be taken on short notice. if our surety provider were to limit or eliminate our access to bonding, our alternatives would include seeking bonding capacity from other sureties, finding more business that does not require bonds and posting other forms of collateral for project performance, such as letters of credit or cash. we may be unable to secure these alternatives in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all. accordingly, if we were to experience an interruption or reduction in the availability of bonding capacity, we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects. many of our contracts may be canceled on short notice, and we may be unsuccessful in replacing our contracts if they are cancelled or as they are completed or expire. we could experience a decrease in our revenue, net income and liquidity if any of the following occur: our customers cancel a significant number of contracts; we fail to win a significant number of our existing contracts upon re-bid; we complete a significant number of non-recurring projects and cannot replace them with similar projects; or we fail to reduce operating and overhead expenses consistent with any decrease in our revenue. many of our customers may cancel our contracts on short notice, typically 30-90 days, even if we are not in default under the contract. certain of our customers assign work to us on a project-by-project basis under master service agreements. under these agreements, our customers often have no obligation to assign a specific amount of work to us. our operations could decline significantly if the anticipated volume of work is not assigned to us. many of our contracts, including our master service agreements, are opened to public bid at the expiration of their terms. there can be no assurance that we will be the successful bidder on our existing contracts that come up for re-bid. the departure of key personnel could disrupt our business. we depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and on senior management of the businesses we acquire. although we have entered into employment agreements with terms of one to three years with most of our executive officers and certain other key employees, we cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time. the loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business. we do not carry key-person life insurance on any of our employees. our unionized workforce could adversely affect our operations and our ability to complete future acquisitions. as of december 31, 2005, approximately 44% of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. although the majority of these agreements prohibit strikes and work stoppages, we cannot be certain that strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the future. strikes or work stoppages would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and could cause us to lose business and decrease our revenue. in addition, our ability to complete future acquisitions could be adversely affected because of our union status for a variety of reasons. for instance, our union agreements may be incompatible with the union agreements of a business we want to acquire and some businesses may not want to become affiliated with a union based company. our business is labor intensive, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees. our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability will be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain an 15 table of contents adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy. for instance, we may experience shortages of qualified journeyman linemen. in addition, we cannot be certain that our labor expenses will not increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of these skilled personnel. labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues. our business growth could outpace the capability of our corporate management infrastructure. we cannot be certain that our infrastructure will be adequate to support our operations as they expand. future growth also could impose significant additional responsibilities on members of our senior management, including the need to recruit and integrate new senior level managers and executives. we cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain such additional managers and executives. to the extent that we are unable to manage our growth effectively, or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified management, we may not be able to expand our operations or execute our business plan. our failure to comply with environmental laws could result in significant liabilities. our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including those dealing with the handling and disposal of waste products, pcbs, fuel storage and air quality. we perform work in many different types of underground environments. if the field location maps supplied to us are not accurate, or if objects are present in the soil that are not indicated on the field location maps, our underground work could strike objects in the soil, some of which may contain pollutants. in such cases, these objects may rupture, resulting in the discharge of pollutants. in such circumstances, we may be liable for fines and damages, and we may be unable to obtain reimbursement from the parties providing the incorrect information. in addition, we perform directional drilling operations below certain environmentally sensitive terrains and water bodies. due to the inconsistent nature of the terrain and water bodies, it is possible that such directional drilling may cause a surface fracture, resulting in the release of subsurface materials. these subsurface materials may contain contaminants in excess of amounts permitted by law, potentially exposing us to remediation costs and fines. we own and lease several facilities at which we store our equipment. some of these facilities contain fuel storage tanks which are above or below ground. if these tanks were to leak, we could be responsible for the cost of remediation as well as potential fines. in addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or leaks, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur significant costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could harm our financial condition and results of operations. in certain instances, we have obtained indemnification or covenants from third parties (including predecessors or lessors) for such cleanup and other obligations and liabilities that we believe are adequate to cover such obligations and liabilities. however, such third-party indemnities or covenants may not cover all of our costs, and such unanticipated obligations or liabilities, or future obligations and liabilities, may have a material adverse effect on our business operations or financial condition. further, we cannot be certain that we will be able to identify or be indemnified for all potential environmental liabilities relating to any acquired business. risks associated with operating in international markets could restrict our ability to expand globally and harm our business and prospects. while only a small percentage of our revenue is currently derived from international markets, we hope to continue to expand the volume of services that we provide internationally. we presently conduct our international sales efforts in canada, mexico and selected countries overseas, but expect that the number of countries that we operate in could expand significantly over the next few years. economic conditions, including those resulting from wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts may adversely affect the global economy, our customers and their ability to pay for our services. in addition, there are numerous risks inherent in conducting our business internationally, including, but not limited to, potential instability in international markets, changes in regulatory requirements, currency fluctuations in foreign countries, and complex foreign laws and treaties. these risks could restrict our ability to provide services to international customers and could adversely affect our ability to operate our business profitably. opportunities within the government arena could lead to increased governmental regulation applicable to us and unrecoverable start up costs. most government contracts are awarded through a regulated competitive bidding process. as we pursue increased opportunities in the government arena, management focus 16 table of contents associated with the start up and bidding process may be diverted away from other opportunities. if we were to be successful in being awarded government contracts, a significant amount of costs could be required before any revenues were realized from these contracts. in addition, as a government contractor, we would be subject to a number of procurement rules and other public sector liabilities, any deemed violation of which could lead to fines or penalties or a loss of business. government agencies routinely audit and investigate government contractors. government agencies may review a contractor performance under its contracts, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. if government agencies determine through these audits or reviews that costs were improperly allocated to specific contracts, they will not reimburse the contractor for those costs or may require the contractor to refund previously reimbursed costs. if government agencies determine that we engaged in improper activity, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties. in addition, if the government were to even allege improper activity, we also could experience serious harm to our reputation. many government contracts must be appropriated each year. if appropriations are not made in subsequent years we would not realize all of the potential revenues from any awarded contracts. we may not be successful in continuing to meet the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 has introduced many requirements applicable to us regarding corporate governance and financial reporting, including the requirements for management to report on our internal controls over financial reporting and for our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to this report. during 2005, we continued actions to ensure our ability to comply with these requirements. as of december 31, 2005, our internal control over financial reporting was effective, however, there can be no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in future years. failure to maintain effective internal controls could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock and other publicly-traded securities, the reduced ability to obtain financing, the loss of customers, penalties and additional expenditures to meet the requirements. we may not have access in the future to sufficient funding to finance desired growth. if we cannot secure additional financing in the future on acceptable terms, we may be unable to support our growth strategy. we cannot readily predict the ability of certain customers to pay for past services or the timing, size and success of our acquisition efforts. using cash for acquisitions limits our financial flexibility and makes us more likely to seek additional capital through future debt or equity financings. our existing debt agreements contain significant restrictions on our operational and financial flexibility, including our ability to incur additional debt, and if we seek more debt we may have to agree to additional covenants that limit our operational and financial flexibility. when we seek additional debt or equity financings, we cannot be certain that additional debt or equity will be available to us on terms acceptable to us or at all. we may be unsuccessful at integrating companies that either we have acquired or that we may acquire in the future. we cannot be sure that we will successfully integrate our acquired companies with our existing operations without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial problems. if we do not implement proper overall business controls, our decentralized operating strategy could result in inconsistent operating and financial practices at the companies we acquire and our overall profitability could be adversely affected. integrating our acquired companies involves a number of special risks which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including: failure of acquired companies to achieve the results we expect; diversion of our management attention from operational matters; difficulties integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies; inability to retain key personnel of acquired companies; risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities; and potential disruptions of our business. if one of our acquired companies suffers customer dissatisfaction or performance problems, the reputation of our entire company could suffer. 17 table of contents factors beyond our control may affect our ability to successfully execute our acquisition strategy, which may have an adverse impact on our growth strategy. our business strategy includes increasing our market share and presence in the industries we serve through strategic acquisitions of companies that complement or enhance our business. we expect to face competition for acquisition opportunities, and some of our competitors may have greater financial resources or access to financing on more favorable terms than us. this competition may limit our acquisition opportunities and our ability to grow through acquisitions or could raise the prices of acquisitions and make them less accretive or possibly non-accretive to us. acquisitions that we may pursue may also involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence or the issuance of securities. any acquisition may ultimately have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of goodwill impairments. when we acquire a business, we record an asset called goodwill equal to the excess amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business we acquire. through december 31, 2001, pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles, we amortized this goodwill over its estimated useful life of 40 years following the acquisition, which directly impacted our earnings. the financial accounting standards board (fasb) issued statement of financial accounting standards (sfas) no. 142 which provides that goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives not be amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairment, and intangible assets that have finite useful lives should continue to be amortized over their useful lives. sfas no. 142, which we adopted in 2002, also provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for impairment. sfas no. 142 requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions when allocating goodwill to reporting units and determining the fair value of reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. fair value is determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches. absent any impairment indicators, we perform our impairment tests annually during the fourth quarter. future impairments, if any, will be recognized as operating expenses. our 4.5% convertible subordinated notes are presently convertible. as a result of our common stock satisfying the market price condition of the convertible subordinated notes during the fourth quarter of 2005, the notes are presently convertible at the option of each holder. we have the right to deliver shares of our common stock, cash or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock upon a conversion of the notes. the conversion period will expire on march 31, 2006, but may resume upon the satisfaction of the market price condition or other conditions in future periods. the number of shares issuable upon a conversion of the notes will be determined based on a conversion rate of approximately $11.14 per share. in the event that all notes were converted for common stock, we would issue an aggregate of 24.2 million shares of our common stock. the conversion of some or all of our 4.5% convertible subordinated notes into our common stock could cause substantial dilution to existing stockholders. any sales in the public market of the common stock issued upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. in addition, the possibility that the notes may be converted may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the notes could depress the price of our common stock. if we elect to satisfy the conversion obligation in cash, the amount of cash payable upon conversion of the notes will be determined by the product of the number of shares issuable at a conversion rate of approximately $11.14 per share multiplied by the average closing price of our common stock during a 20-day trading period following the conversion of the notes. to the extent that the average closing price of our common stock during this period exceeds $11.14 per share, we will be required to pay cash in excess of the principal amount of the notes being converted. you are unlikely to be able to seek remedies against arthur andersen llp, our former independent auditor. our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal years ended prior to december 31, 2002 were audited by arthur andersen llp, our former independent auditor. in june 2002, arthur andersen llp was convicted of federal obstruction of justice charges in connection with its destruction of documents. as a result 18 table of contents of its conviction, arthur andersen llp ceased operations. although the u.s. supreme court overturned arthur andersen llp conviction in may 2005, the firm has not resumed operations. you will not be able to recover against arthur andersen llp for its liability under section 11 of the securities act in the event any untrue statements of a material fact are contained in its previously issued audit reports. even if you have a basis for asserting a remedy against, or seeking to recover from arthur andersen llp, because they have ceased operations, it is highly unlikely that you would be able to recover damages from arthur andersen llp. certain provisions of our corporate governing documents could make an acquisition of our company more difficult. the following provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as currently in effect, as well as our stockholder rights plan and delaware law, could discourage potential proposals to acquire us, delay or prevent a change in control of us or limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock: our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to issue blank check preferred stock and to adopt amendments to our bylaws; our bylaws contain restrictions regarding the right of stockholders to nominate directors and to submit proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings; our certificate of incorporation and bylaws restrict the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to act by written consent; we are subject to provisions of delaware law which prohibit us from engaging in any of a broad range of business transactions with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date such stockholder became classified as an interested stockholder; and we have adopted a stockholder rights plan that could cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of directors or permitted by the stockholder rights plan. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 38 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk related to potential adverse changes in interest rates. management does not generally use derivative financial instruments for trading or to speculate on changes in interest rates or commodity prices. management is actively involved in monitoring exposure to market risk and continues to develop and utilize appropriate risk management techniques. we are not exposed to any other significant market risks, foreign currency exchange risk or interest rate risk from the use of derivative financial instruments. the sensitivity analysis below, which illustrates our hypothetical potential market risk exposure to interest rate fluctuations, estimates the effects of hypothetical sudden and sustained changes in the applicable market conditions on 2005 earnings. the sensitivity analysis presented does not consider any additional actions we may take to mitigate our exposure to such changes. the hypothetical changes and assumptions may be different from what actually occurs in the future. interest rates. as of december 31, 2005, we had no derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate risk. as such, we are exposed to earnings and fair value risk due to changes in interest rates with respect to our long-term obligations. as of december 31, 2004 and 2005, the fair value of our fixed-rate debt of $449.8 million and $444.8 million was approximately $469.3 million and $520.1 million, based upon current market prices. as of december 31, 2004, the fair value of our variable rate debt of $20.8 million approximated book value and the detrimental effect on our pretax earnings of a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in variable interest rates would be approximately $0.1 million. as of december 31, 2005, the fair value of our variable rate debt of $7.5 million approximated book value and the detrimental effect on our pretax earnings of a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in variable interest rates would be approximately $37,500. 38 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors our business is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described below. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below also may impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed and we may not be able to achieve our goals. this annual report on form 10-k also includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions, or beliefs about future events that are intended as forward-looking statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and should be read in conjunction with the section entitled uncertainty of forward-looking statements and information, included in item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. we typically experience lower gross and operating margins during winter months due to lower demand for our services and more difficult operating conditions. additionally, our quarterly results also may be materially and adversely affected by: the timing and volume of work under contract; regional or general economic conditions; the budgetary spending patterns of customers; variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular quarter; a change in the demand for our services caused by severe weather conditions; increases in construction and design costs; the termination of existing agreements; losses experienced in our operations not otherwise covered by insurance; a change in the mix of our customers, contracts and business; payment risk associated with the financial condition of our customers; changes in bonding and lien requirements applicable to existing and new agreements; costs we incur to support growth internally or through acquisitions or otherwise; the timing and integration of acquisitions; and the timing and magnitude of acquisition integration costs and potential goodwill impairments. accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that you can expect for any other quarter or for the entire year. an economic downturn may lead to less demand for our services. because the vast majority of our revenue is derived from a few industries, a downturn in any of those industries would adversely affect our results of operations. the telecommunications and utility markets experienced substantial change during 2002 and 2003 as evidenced by an increased number of bankruptcies in the telecommunications market, continued devaluation of many of our customers debt and equity securities and pricing pressures resulting from challenges faced by major industry participants. these factors contributed to the delay and cancellation of projects and reduction of capital spending, which impacted our operations and our ability to grow at historical levels. a number of other factors, including financing conditions and potential bankruptcies in the industries we serve, could adversely affect our customers and their ability or willingness to fund capital expenditures in the future or pay for past services. in addition, 12 table of contents consolidation, competition or capital constraints in the electric power, gas, telecommunications or cable television industries may result in reduced spending by, or the loss of, one or more of our customers. our industry is highly competitive. our industry is served by numerous small, owner-operated private companies, a few public companies and several large regional companies. in addition, relatively few barriers prevent entry into some of our industries. as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become one of our competitors. competition in the industry depends on a number of factors, including price. certain of our competitors may have lower overhead cost structures and, therefore, may be able to provide their services at lower rates than we are able to provide. in addition, some of our competitors may have greater resources than we do. we cannot be certain that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services. similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position within our industry or maintain our customer base at current levels. we also may face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers. electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television service providers usually employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services we do. we cannot be certain that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource services in the future. we may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth. our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to: expand the range of services we offer to customers to address their evolving network needs; attract new customers; increase the number of projects performed for existing customers; hire and retain qualified employees; and open additional facilities. in addition, our customers may reduce the number or size of projects available to us due to their inability to obtain capital or pay for services provided. many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies will be successful or that we will be able to generate cash flow sufficient to fund our operations and to support internal growth. if we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to achieve internal growth, expand our operations or grow our business. the energy policy act of 2005 may fail to result in increased spending on the electric power transmission infrastructure. implementation of the energy policy act of 2005 is still subject to considerable fiscal and regulatory uncertainty. many of the regulations implementing the components of the act have not been promulgated and many others have only recently been finalized, and the effect of these regulations, once implemented, is uncertain. as a result, the legislation may not result in increased spending on the electric power transmission infrastructure. factors beyond our control may affect our ability to successfully execute our acquisition strategy, which may have an adverse impact on our growth strategy. our business strategy includes expanding our presence in the industries we serve through strategic acquisitions of companies that complement or enhance our business. we expect to face competition for acquisition opportunities, and some of our competitors may have greater financial resources or access to financing on more favorable terms than us. this competition may limit our acquisition opportunities and our ability to grow through acquisitions or could raise the prices of acquisitions and make them less accretive or possibly non-accretive to us. acquisitions that we may pursue may also involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence or the issuance of securities. any acquisition may ultimately have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our financial results are based upon estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. in preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states, several estimates and assumptions are used by management in determining the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses recognized during the periods presented and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities known to exist as of the date of the financial statements. these estimates and assumptions must 13 table of contents be made because certain information that is used in the preparation of our financial statements is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available or is not capable of being readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. in some cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine and we must exercise significant judgment. estimates are primarily used in our assessment of the allowance for doubtful accounts, valuation of inventory, useful lives of property and equipment, fair value assumptions in analyzing goodwill and long-lived asset impairments, self-insured claims liabilities, forfeiture estimates relating to stock-based compensation, revenue recognition under percentage-of-completion accounting and provision for income taxes. actual results for all estimates could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits. as discussed in item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 hereof, a significant portion of our revenues is recognized on a percentage-of-completion method of accounting, using the cost-to-cost method. this method is used because management considers expended costs to be the best available measure of progress on these contracts. this accounting method is standard for fixed-price contracts. the percentage-of-completion accounting practice we use results in our recognizing contract revenues and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. the earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability. contract losses are recognized in full when determined, and contract profit estimates are adjusted based on ongoing reviews of contract profitability. further, a substantial portion of our contracts contain various cost and performance incentives. penalties are recorded when known or finalized, which generally is during the latter stages of the contract. in addition, we record cost recovery claims when we believe recovery is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. actual collection of claims could differ from estimated amounts and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings. in certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be significant. our dependence upon fixed price contracts could adversely affect our business. we currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, a portion of our revenues under fixed price contracts. we must estimate the costs of completing a particular project to bid for fixed price contracts. the actual cost of labor and materials, however, may vary from the costs we originally estimated. these variations, along with other risks inherent in performing fixed price contracts, may cause actual revenue and gross profits for a project to differ from those we originally estimated and could result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. depending upon the size of a particular project, variations from the estimated contract costs could have a significant impact on our operating results for any fiscal quarter or year. we are self-insured against potential liabilities. although we maintain insurance policies with respect to automobile, general liability, workers compensation and employers liability, those policies are subject to deductibles of $1.0 million to $2.0 million per occurrence, and we are primarily self-insured for all claims that do not exceed the amount of the applicable deductible. in addition, beginning august 1, 2006, we have been subject to an additional cumulative aggregate liability of up to $2.0 million on workers compensation claims in excess of $2.0 million per occurrence per policy year. we also have an employee health care benefit plan for employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, which is subject to a deductible of $250,000 per claimant per year. losses up to the deductible amounts are accrued based upon our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported, with assistance from a third-party actuary. however, insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety program. if we were to experience insurance claims or costs significantly above our estimates, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected in a given period. our casualty insurance carrier for prior periods is experiencing financial distress, which may require us to make payments for losses that otherwise would be insured. our casualty insurance carrier for the policy periods from august 1, 2000 to february 28, 2003 is experiencing financial distress, but is currently paying valid claims. in the event that this insurer financial situation deteriorates, we may be required to pay certain obligations that 14 table of contents otherwise would have been paid by this insurer. we estimate that the total future claim amount that this insurer is currently obligated to pay on our behalf for the above mentioned policy periods is approximately $6.2 million; however, our estimate of the potential range of these future claim amounts is between $3.6 million and $8.5 million. the actual amounts ultimately paid by us related to these claims, if any, may vary materially from the above range and could be impacted by further claims development and the extent to which the insurer can not honor its obligations. in any event, we do not expect any failure by this insurer to honor its obligations to us to have a material adverse impact on our financial condition; however, the impact could be material to our results of operations or cash flow in a given period. we may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial impact relating to occupational health and safety matters. our operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace. while we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources in our occupational health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operational risk and there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant liability exposure. although we have taken what we believe are appropriate precautions, we have suffered fatalities in the past and may suffer additional fatalities in the future. claims for damages to persons, including claims for bodily injury or loss of life, could result in substantial costs and liabilities. in addition, if our safety record were to substantially deteriorate over time, our customers could cancel our contracts and not award us future business. our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of goodwill impairments. when we acquire a business, we record an asset called goodwill equal to the excess amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business we acquire. statement of financial accounting standards (sfas) no. 142 provides that goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives not be amortized, but instead be tested at least annually for impairment, and intangible assets that have finite useful lives continue to be amortized over their useful lives. sfas no. 142 provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for impairment. sfas no. 142 requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions when allocating goodwill to reporting units and determining the fair value of reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. fair value is determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches. absent any impairment indicators, we perform our impairment tests annually during the fourth quarter. as part of our 2006 annual test for goodwill impairment, goodwill in the amount of $56.8 million was written off as a non-cash operating expense associated with a decrease in the expected future demand for the services of one of our businesses, which has historically served the cable television industry. any future impairments would negatively impact our results of operations for the period in which the impairment is recognized. we may be unsuccessful at integrating companies that either we have acquired or that we may acquire in the future. we cannot be sure that we will successfully integrate our acquired companies with our existing operations without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial problems. if we do not implement proper overall business controls, our decentralized operating strategy could result in inconsistent operating and financial practices at the companies we acquire and our overall profitability could be adversely affected. integrating our acquired companies involves a number of special risks which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including: failure of acquired companies to achieve the results we expect; diversion of our management attention from operational and other matters; difficulties integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies; inability to retain key personnel of acquired companies; risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities; and potential disruptions of our business. 15 table of contents if one of our acquired companies suffers customer dissatisfaction or performance problems, the reputation of our entire company could suffer. we extend credit to customers for purchases of our services, and in the past we have had, and in the future we may have, difficulty collecting receivables from major customers that have filed bankruptcy or are otherwise experiencing financial difficulties. we grant credit, generally without collateral, to our customers, which include electric power and gas companies, telecommunications and cable television system operators, governmental entities, general contractors, and builders, owners and managers of commercial and industrial properties located primarily in the united states. consequently, we are subject to potential credit risk related to changes in business and economic factors throughout the united states. in the past, our customers in the telecommunications business have experienced significant financial difficulties and in several instances have filed for bankruptcy. a number of our utility customers are also experiencing business challenges in the current business climate. if additional major customers file for bankruptcy or continue to experience financial difficulties, or if anticipated recoveries relating to receivables in existing bankruptcies or other workout situations fail to materialize, we could experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of current allowances provided. in addition, material changes in any of our customer revenues or cash flows could affect our ability to collect amounts due from them. the industries we serve are subject to rapid technological and structural changes that could reduce the demand for the services we provide. the electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television industries are undergoing rapid change as a result of technological advances that could, in certain cases, reduce the demand for our services or otherwise negatively impact our business. new or developing technologies could displace the wireline systems used for voice, video and data transmissions, and improvements in existing technology may allow telecommunications and cable television companies to significantly improve their networks without physically upgrading them. a portion of our business depends on our ability to provide surety bonds. we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects if we are not able to obtain the necessary surety bonds. surety market conditions currently are difficult as a result of significant losses incurred by many sureties in recent periods, both in the construction industry as well as in certain larger corporate bankruptcies. we have granted security interests in various of our assets to collateralize our obligations to the surety. further, under standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue or continue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing or renewing any bonds. current or future market conditions, as well as changes in our surety assessment of our operating and financial risk, could cause our surety providers to decline to issue or renew, or substantially reduce the amount of, bonds for our work and could increase our bonding costs. these actions could be taken on short notice. if our surety providers were to limit or eliminate our access to bonding, our alternatives would include seeking bonding capacity from other sureties, finding more business that does not require bonds and posting other forms of collateral for project performance, such as letters of credit or cash. we may be unable to secure these alternatives in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all. accordingly, if we were to experience an interruption or reduction in the availability of bonding capacity, we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects. many of our contracts may be canceled on short notice, and we may be unsuccessful in replacing our contracts if they are canceled or as they are completed or expire. we could experience a decrease in our revenue, net income and liquidity if any of the following occur: our customers cancel a significant number of contracts; we fail to win a significant number of our existing contracts upon re-bid; we complete a significant number of non-recurring projects and cannot replace them with similar projects; or we fail to reduce operating and overhead expenses consistent with any decrease in our revenue. many of our customers may cancel our contracts on short notice, typically 30-90 days, even if we are not in default under the contract. certain of our customers assign work to us on a project-by-project basis under master service agreements. under these agreements, our customers often have no obligation to assign a specific amount of work to us. our operations could decline significantly if the anticipated volume of work is not assigned to us. many 16 table of contents of our contracts, including our master service agreements, are opened to public bid at the expiration of their terms. there can be no assurance that we will be the successful bidder on our existing contracts that come up for re-bid. the departure of key personnel could disrupt our business. we depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and on senior management of our operating units, including the businesses we acquire. although we have entered into employment agreements with terms of one to three years with most of our executive officers and certain other key employees, we cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time. the loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business. we do not carry key-person life insurance on any of our employees. our unionized workforce could adversely affect our operations and our ability to complete future acquisitions. as of december 31, 2006, approximately 50% of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. although the majority of these agreements prohibit strikes and work stoppages, we cannot be certain that strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the future. strikes or work stoppages would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and could cause us to lose business and decrease our revenue. in addition, our ability to complete future acquisitions could be adversely affected because of our union status for a variety of reasons. for instance, our union agreements may be incompatible with the union agreements of a business we want to acquire and some businesses may not want to become affiliated with a union based company. our business is labor intensive, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees. our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability will be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy. for instance, we may experience shortages of qualified journeyman linemen. in addition, we cannot be certain that our labor expenses will not increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of these skilled personnel. labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues. our business growth could outpace the capability of our corporate management infrastructure. we cannot be certain that our infrastructure will be adequate to support our operations as they expand. future growth also could impose significant additional responsibilities on members of our senior management, including the need to recruit and integrate new senior level managers and executives. we cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain such additional managers and executives. to the extent that we are unable to manage our growth effectively, or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified management, we may not be able to expand our operations or execute our business plan. our failure to comply with environmental laws could result in significant liabilities. our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including those dealing with the handling and disposal of waste products, pcbs, fuel storage and air quality. we perform work in many different types of underground environments. if the field location maps supplied to us are not accurate, or if objects are present in the soil that are not indicated on the field location maps, our underground work could strike objects in the soil, some of which may contain pollutants. in such cases, these objects may rupture, resulting in the discharge of pollutants. in such circumstances, we may be liable for fines and damages, and we may be unable to obtain reimbursement from the parties providing the incorrect information. in addition, we perform directional drilling operations below certain environmentally sensitive terrains and water bodies. due to the inconsistent nature of the terrain and water bodies, it is possible that such directional drilling may cause a surface fracture, resulting in the release of subsurface materials. these subsurface materials may contain contaminants in excess of amounts permitted by law, potentially exposing us to remediation costs and fines. we also own and lease several facilities at which we store our equipment. some of these facilities contain fuel storage tanks which are above or below ground. if these tanks were to leak, we could be responsible for the cost of remediation as well as potential fines. in addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or leaks, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur significant costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could harm our financial condition and results of operations. in certain instances, we have obtained indemnification or covenants from third parties (including predecessors or lessors) for such cleanup and other obligations and liabilities that we believe are 17 table of contents adequate to cover such obligations and liabilities. however, such third-party indemnities or covenants may not cover all of our costs, and such unanticipated obligations or liabilities, or future obligations and liabilities, may have a material adverse effect on our business operations or financial condition. further, we cannot be certain that we will be able to identify or be indemnified for all potential environmental liabilities relating to any acquired business. risks associated with operating in international markets could restrict our ability to expand globally and harm our business and prospects. while only a small percentage of our revenue is currently derived from international markets, we hope to continue to expand the volume of services that we provide internationally. we presently conduct our international sales efforts in canada, mexico and selected countries overseas, but expect that the number of countries that we operate in could expand significantly over the next few years. economic conditions, including those resulting from wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts may adversely affect the global economy, our customers and their ability to pay for our services. in addition, there are numerous risks inherent in conducting our business internationally, including, but not limited to, potential instability in international markets, changes in regulatory requirements, currency fluctuations in foreign countries, and complex u.s. and foreign laws and treaties, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act. these risks could restrict our ability to provide services to international customers and could adversely affect our ability to operate our business profitably. opportunities within the government arena could lead to increased governmental regulation applicable to us and unrecoverable start up costs. most government contracts are awarded through a regulated competitive bidding process. as we pursue increased opportunities in the government arena, management focus associated with the start up and bidding process may be diverted away from other opportunities. if we were to be successful in being awarded government contracts, a significant amount of costs could be required before any revenues were realized from these contracts. in addition, as a government contractor, we would be subject to a number of procurement rules and other public sector liabilities, any deemed violation of which could lead to fines or penalties or a loss of business. government agencies routinely audit and investigate government contractors. government agencies may review a contractor performance under its contracts, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. if government agencies determine through these audits or reviews that costs were improperly allocated to specific contracts, they will not reimburse the contractor for those costs or may require the contractor to refund previously reimbursed costs. if government agencies determine that we engaged in improper activity, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties. in addition, if the government were to even allege improper activity, we also could experience serious harm to our reputation. many government contracts must be appropriated each year. if appropriations are not made in subsequent years we would not realize all of the potential revenues from any awarded contracts. we may not be successful in continuing to meet the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 has introduced many requirements applicable to us regarding corporate governance and financial reporting, including the requirements for management to report on our internal controls over financial reporting and for our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to this report. during 2006, we continued actions to ensure our ability to comply with these requirements. as of december 31, 2006, our internal control over financial reporting was effective; however, there can be no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in future years. failure to maintain effective internal controls could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock and our other publicly traded securities, the reduced ability to obtain financing, the loss of customers, penalties and additional expenditures to meet the requirements. we may not have access in the future to sufficient funding to finance desired growth. if we cannot secure additional financing in the future on acceptable terms, we may be unable to support our growth strategy. we cannot readily predict the ability of certain customers to pay for past services or the timing, size and success of our acquisition efforts. using cash for acquisitions limits our financial flexibility and makes us more likely to seek additional capital through future debt or equity financings. our existing debt agreements contain significant restrictions on our operational and financial flexibility, including our ability to incur additional debt or conduct equity financings, and if we seek more debt we may have to agree to additional covenants that limit our operational and financial flexibility. when we seek additional debt or equity financings, we cannot be certain that additional debt or equity will be available to us on terms acceptable to us or at all. 18 table of contents our 4.5% convertible subordinated notes are presently convertible. as a result of our common stock satisfying the market price condition of the convertible subordinated notes during the fourth quarter of 2006, the notes are presently convertible at the option of each holder during the first quarter of 2007. we have the right to deliver shares of our common stock, cash or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock upon a conversion of the notes. the notes may be convertible during future fiscal quarters upon the satisfaction of the market price condition or other conditions in future periods. the number of shares issuable upon a conversion of the notes will be determined based on a conversion rate of approximately $11.14 per share. in the event that all notes were converted for common stock, we would issue an aggregate of 24.2 million shares of our common stock. the conversion of some or all of our 4.5% convertible subordinated notes into our common stock could cause substantial dilution to existing stockholders. any sales in the public market of the common stock issued upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. in addition, the possibility that the notes may be converted may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the notes could depress the price of our common stock. if we elect to satisfy the conversion obligation in cash, the amount of cash payable upon conversion of the notes will be determined by the product of (i) the number of shares issuable for the principal amount of the converted notes at a conversion rate of approximately $11.14 per share and (ii) the average closing price of our common stock during a 20-day trading period following the holders unretracted election to convert the notes. to the extent that the average closing price of our common stock during this period exceeds $11.14 per share, we will be required to pay cash in excess of the principal amount of the notes being converted, which would result in the recording of a loss on early extinguishment of debt. certain provisions of our corporate governing documents could make an acquisition of our company more difficult. the following provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as currently in effect, as well as our stockholder rights plan and delaware law, could discourage potential proposals to acquire us, delay or prevent a change in control of us or limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock: our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to issue blank check preferred stock and to adopt amendments to our bylaws; our bylaws contain restrictions regarding the right of stockholders to nominate directors and to submit proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings; our certificate of incorporation and bylaws restrict the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to act by written consent; we are subject to provisions of delaware law which prohibit us from engaging in any of a broad range of business transactions with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date such stockholder became classified as an interested stockholder; and we have adopted a stockholder rights plan that could cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of directors or permitted by the stockholder rights plan. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to certain market risks related to the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the market price of our stock. the adverse effects of potential changes in these market risks are discussed below. the sensitivity analyses presented below do not consider the effects that such adverse changes may have on overall economic activity nor do they consider additional actions we may take to mitigate our exposure to such changes. actual results may differ. management is actively involved in monitoring exposure to market risk and continues to develop and utilize appropriate risk management techniques. management does not generally use derivative financial instruments for trading or to speculate on changes in interest rates or commodity prices. interest rate risks. our exposure to market rate risk for changes in interest rates relates to our convertible subordinated notes. the fair market value of our fixed rate convertible subordinated notes is subject to interest rate risk and market risk due to the convertible feature of our convertible subordinated notes. generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. the fair market value of our convertible subordinated notes will also increase as the market price of our stock increases and decrease as the market price falls. the interest and market value changes affect the fair market value of our convertible subordinated notes but do not impact their carrying value. as of december 31, 2005 and 2006, the fair value of our fixed-rate debt of $444.8 million and $447.0 million was approximately $520.1 million and $692.2 million, based upon current market prices. 40 table of contentsrisk factors 14 risk factors our business is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described below. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below also may impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed and we may not be able to achieve our goals. this annual report on form 10-k also includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended as forward-looking statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and should be read in conjunction with the section entitled uncertainty of forward-looking statements and information included in item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. we typically experience lower gross and operating margins during winter months due to lower demand for our services and more difficult operating conditions. additionally, our quarterly results may be materially and adversely affected by: variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular quarter; a change in the demand for our services caused by severe weather conditions; increases in construction and design costs; the timing and volume of work under contract; regional or general economic conditions; the budgetary spending patterns of customers; the termination of existing agreements; losses experienced in our operations not otherwise covered by insurance; a change in the mix of our customers, contracts and business; payment risk associated with the financial condition of our customers; changes in bonding and lien requirements applicable to existing and new agreements; costs we incur to support growth internally or through acquisitions or otherwise; 14 table of contents the timing and integration of acquisitions; and the timing and magnitude of acquisition integration costs and potential goodwill impairments. accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that you can expect for any other quarter or for the entire year. we incurred substantial transaction and merger-related costs in connection with the merger and we may not realize all of the anticipated synergies and other benefits from acquiring infrasource. we have incurred and expect to continue to incur a number of non-recurring transaction and merger-related costs associated with completing the merger with infrasource, combining the operations of the two companies and achieving desired synergies. these fees and costs may be significant. additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses of quanta and infrasource. although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies, related to the integration of the two businesses will offset the incremental transaction and merger-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. the success of the merger will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the synergies and other benefits from acquiring infrasource. to realize these synergies and benefits, however, we must successfully integrate the operations and personnel of infrasource into our business. we have made substantial progress toward the integration of the two companies, but if this integration is unsuccessful, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all, may take longer or cost more to realize than expected. because we and infrasource have previously operated as independent companies, it is possible that integration will result in the future loss of valuable employees, the disruption of our business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, policies and compensation arrangements. the size of the merger may also make integration difficult, expensive and disruptive, adversely affecting our revenues and earnings. as a result of the merger with infrasource, we are subject to additional risks. as a result of the merger, our results of operations could be adversely affected by any issues attributable to infrasource operations that arose prior to the closing of the merger, including issues with respect to infrasource projects that may decrease our profitability or result in litigation. furthermore, to the extent that infrasource had or is perceived by customers to have had operational challenges, such as on-time performance, safety issues or workforce issues, those challenges may raise concerns by our customers, which may limit or impede our future ability to obtain additional work from those customers. quanta and infrasource also had some customer overlap prior to the merger. if any of these customers in common decrease their amount of business with us to reduce their reliance on a single company, such decrease in business could adversely impact our sales and profitability. infrasource, certain of its officers and directors and various other parties, including david r. helwig, the former chief executive officer of infrasource, who became a director of quanta after completion of the merger, are defendants in a lawsuit seeking unspecified damages filed in the state district court in harris county, texas. the plaintiffs allege that the defendants violated their fiduciary duties and committed constructive fraud by failing to maximize shareholder value in connection with certain acquisitions by infrasource incorporated that closed in 1999 and 2000 and the acquisition of infrasource incorporated by infrasource in 2003 and committed other acts of misconduct following the filing of the petition. the parties agreed to settle this lawsuit in january 2008 and agreed to a dismissal of all material claims, although the dismissal has not yet been ordered by the court. an economic downturn may lead to less demand for our services. because the vast majority of our revenue is derived from a few industries, a downturn in any of those industries would adversely affect our results of operations. the telecommunications and utility markets experienced substantial change during 2002 and 2003 as evidenced by an increased number of bankruptcies in the telecommunications market, continued devaluation of many of our customers debt and equity securities and pricing pressures resulting from challenges faced by major industry participants. these factors contributed 15 table of contents to the delay and cancellation of projects and reduction of capital spending, which impacted our operations and our ability to grow at historical levels. a number of other factors, including financing conditions and potential bankruptcies in the industries we serve or a prolonged economic recession, could adversely affect our customers and their ability or willingness to fund capital expenditures in the future or pay for past services. additionally, our gas distribution installation business is driven in part by the housing construction market, and continued declines in new housing construction could cause reductions in our gas distribution installation business. consolidation, competition or capital constraints in the electric power, gas, telecommunications or cable television industries may also result in reduced spending by, or the loss of, one or more of our customers. project delays or cancellations may result in additional costs to us, reductions in revenues or the payment of liquidated damages. in certain circumstances, we guarantee project completion by a scheduled acceptance date or achievement of certain acceptance and performance testing levels. failure to meet any of those schedules or performance requirements could result in additional costs or penalties, including liquidated damages, and such amounts could exceed expected project profit. many projects involve challenging engineering, procurement and construction phases that may occur over extended time periods, sometimes up to two years. we may encounter difficulties in engineering, delays in designs or materials provided by the customer or a third party, equipment and material delivery, schedule changes, weather-related delays and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, that impact our ability to complete the project in accordance with the original delivery schedule. for example, the recent increase in demand for transmission services has strained production resources, creating significant lead times for obtaining large transformers, transmission towers and poles. as a result, electric transmission project revenues could be significantly reduced or delayed due to the difficulty we or our customers may experience in obtaining required materials. in addition, we occasionally contract with third-party subcontractors to assist us with the completion of contracts. any delay by suppliers or by subcontractors in the completion of their portion of the project, or any failure by a subcontractor to satisfactorily complete its portion of the project may result in delays in the overall progress of the project or may cause us to incur additional costs, or both. we also may encounter project delays due to local opposition, which may include injunctive actions as well as public protests, to the siting of transmission lines or other facilities. delays and additional costs may be substantial and, in some cases, we may be required to compensate the customer for such delays. we may not be able to recover all of such costs. in extreme cases, the above-mentioned factors could cause project cancellations, and we may not be able to replace such projects with similar projects or at all. such delays or cancellations may impact our reputation or relationships with customers, adversely affecting our ability to secure new contracts. project contracts may require customers or other parties to provide design, engineering information, equipment or materials to be used on a project. in some cases, the project schedule or the design, engineering information, equipment or materials may be deficient or delivered later than required by the project schedule. our customers may change various elements of the project after its commencement. under these circumstances, we generally negotiate with the customer with respect to the amount of additional time required and the compensation to be paid to us. we are subject to the risk that we may be unable to obtain, through negotiation, arbitration, litigation or otherwise, adequate amounts to compensate us for the additional work or expenses incurred by us due to customer-requested change orders or failure by the customer to timely deliver items, such as engineering drawings or materials, required to be provided by the customer. a failure to obtain adequate compensation for these matters could require us to record a reduction to amounts of revenue and gross profit recognized in prior periods under the percentage-of-completion accounting method. any such adjustments could be substantial. our dependence upon fixed price contracts could adversely affect our business. we currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, a portion of our revenues under fixed price contracts. we must estimate the costs of completing a particular project to bid for fixed price contracts. the actual cost of labor and materials, however, may vary from the costs we originally estimated. these variations, 16 table of contents along with other risks inherent in performing fixed price contracts, may cause actual revenue and gross profits for a project to differ from those we originally estimated and could result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. depending upon the size of a particular project, variations from the estimated contract costs could have a significant impact on our operating results for any fiscal quarter or year. our use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits. as discussed in item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 hereof, a significant portion of our revenues are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, utilizing the cost-to-cost method. this method is used because management considers expended costs to be the best available measure of progress on these contracts. this accounting method is generally accepted for fixed price contracts. the percentage-of-completion accounting practice we use results in our recognizing contract revenues and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. the earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability. contract losses are recognized in full when determined, and contract profit estimates are adjusted based on ongoing reviews of contract profitability. further, a substantial portion of our contracts contain various cost and performance incentives. penalties are recorded when known or finalized, which generally occurs during the latter stages of the contract. in addition, we record cost recovery claims when we believe recovery is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. actual collection of claims could differ from estimated amounts and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings. in certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be significant. we may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth. our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to: expand the range of services we offer to customers to address their evolving network needs; attract new customers; increase the number of projects performed for existing customers; hire and retain qualified employees; and expand geographically, including internationally. in addition, our customers may delay or reduce the number or size of projects available to us due to their inability to obtain capital or pay for services provided. many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies will be successful or that we will be able to generate cash flow sufficient to fund our operations and to support internal growth. if we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to achieve internal growth, expand our operations or grow our business. our industry is highly competitive. our industry is served by numerous small, owner-operated private companies, a few public companies and several large regional companies. in addition, relatively few barriers prevent entry into some of our industries. as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become one of our competitors. competition in the industry depends on a number of factors, including price. certain of our competitors may have lower overhead cost structures and, therefore, may be able to provide their services at lower rates than we are able to provide. in addition, some of our competitors have significant resources including financial, technical and marketing resources. we cannot be certain that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services. similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or 17 table of contents enhance our competitive position within our industry or maintain our customer base at current levels. we also may face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers. electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television service providers usually employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services we do. we cannot be certain that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource services in the future. the energy policy act of 2005 may fail to result in increased spending on the electric power transmission infrastructure. implementation of the energy act is still subject to considerable fiscal and regulatory uncertainty. regulations implementing the components of the energy act that may affect demand for our services have only recently been finalized and in some cases remain subject to challenge before the department of energy and in the federal courts. accordingly, the effect of these regulations, once finally implemented, is uncertain. as a result, the legislation may not result in increased spending on the electric power transmission infrastructure. continued uncertainty regarding the implementation of the energy act may result in slower growth in demand for our services. our business is labor intensive, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees. our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability will be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy. for instance, we may experience shortages of qualified journeyman linemen. in addition, we cannot be certain that our labor expenses will not increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of these skilled personnel. labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues. our business growth could outpace the capability of our corporate management infrastructure. we cannot be certain that our infrastructure will be adequate to support our operations as they expand. future growth also could impose significant additional responsibilities on members of our senior management, including the need to recruit and integrate new senior level managers and executives. we cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain such additional managers and executives. to the extent that we are unable to manage our growth effectively, or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified management, we may not be able to expand our operations or execute our business plan. factors beyond our control may affect our ability to successfully execute our acquisition strategy, which may have an adverse impact on our growth strategy. our business strategy includes expanding our presence in the industries we serve through strategic acquisitions of companies that complement or enhance our business. we expect to face competition for acquisition opportunities, and some of our competitors may have access to financing on more favorable terms than us or have greater financial resources. this competition may limit our acquisition opportunities and our ability to grow through acquisitions or could raise the prices of acquisitions and make them less accretive or possibly non-accretive to us. acquisitions that we may pursue may also involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence or the issuance of securities. any acquisition may ultimately have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may be unsuccessful at integrating companies that either we have acquired or that we may acquire in the future. as a part of our business strategy, we have acquired, and seek to acquire in the future, companies that complement or enhance our business. however, we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully integrate each of these companies with our existing operations without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial problems. if we do not implement proper overall business controls, our decentralized 18 table of contents operating strategy could result in inconsistent operating and financial practices at the companies we acquire and our overall profitability could be adversely affected. integrating our acquired companies involves a number of special risks which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including: failure of acquired companies to achieve the results we expect; diversion of our management attention from operational and other matters; difficulties integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies; inability to retain key personnel of acquired companies; risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities; and potential disruptions of our business. if one of our acquired companies suffers customer dissatisfaction or performance problems, the reputation of our entire company could suffer. our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of goodwill impairments. when we acquire a business, we record an asset called goodwill equal to the excess amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business we acquire. for example, in connection with the merger, we recorded approximately $989.8 million in goodwill and $158.8 million of intangible assets based on the application of purchase accounting. statement of financial accounting standards (sfas) no. 142 provides that goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives not be amortized, but instead be tested at least annually for impairment, and intangible assets that have finite useful lives continue to be amortized over their useful lives. sfas no. 142 provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for impairment. sfas no. 142 requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions when allocating goodwill to reporting units and determining the fair value of reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. fair value is determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches. absent any impairment indicators, we perform our impairment tests annually during the fourth quarter. as part of our 2006 annual test for goodwill impairment, goodwill in the amount of $56.8 million was written off as a non-cash operating expense associated with a decrease in the expected future demand for the services of one of our businesses, which has historically served the cable television industry. any future impairments, including impairments of the goodwill or intangible assets recorded in connection with the merger, would negatively impact our results of operations for the period in which the impairment is recognized. our financial results are based upon estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. in preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states, several estimates and assumptions are used by management in determining the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses recognized during the periods presented and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities known to exist as of the date of the financial statements. these estimates and assumptions must be made because certain information that is used in the preparation of our financial statements is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available or is not capable of being readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. in some cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine and we must exercise significant judgment. estimates are primarily used in our assessment of the allowance for doubtful accounts, valuation of inventory, useful lives of property and equipment, fair value assumptions in analyzing goodwill and long-lived asset impairments, self-insured claims liabilities, forfeiture estimates relating to stock-based compensation, revenue recognition under percentage-of-completion accounting and provision for income taxes. actual results for all 19 table of contents estimates could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. during the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to lawsuits or indemnity claims, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. we have in the past been, and may in the future be, named as a defendant in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings during the ordinary course of our business. these actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract, property damage, punitive damages, civil penalties or other losses or injunctive or declaratory relief. in addition, we generally indemnify our customers for claims related to the services we provide and actions we take under our contracts with them, and, in some instances, we may be allocated risk through our contract terms for actions by our customers or other third parties. because our services in certain instances may be integral to the operation and performance of our customers infrastructure, we may become subject to lawsuits or claims for any failure of the systems that we work on, even if our services are not the cause of such failures, and we could be subject to civil and criminal liabilities to the extent that our services contributed to any property damage, personal injury or system failure. the outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings could result in significant costs and diversion of management attention to the business. payments of significant amounts, even if reserved, could adversely affect our reputation, liquidity and results of operations. we are self-insured against potential liabilities. although we maintain insurance policies with respect to employer liability, general liability, automobile and workers compensation claims, those policies are subject to deductibles ranging from $1.0 million to $3.0 million per occurrence depending on the insurance policy. we are primarily self-insured for all claims that do not exceed the amount of the applicable deductible. additionally, we are subject to an annual cumulative aggregate liability of up to $1.0 million on workers compensation claims in excess of $2.0 million per occurrence. we also have an employee health care benefits plan for employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, which was subject to a deductible of $250,000 per claimant per year until december 31, 2007. the deductible for employee health care benefits was increased to $350,000 per claimant per year effective january 1, 2008. effective upon the merger, infrasource became insured under quanta property and casualty insurance program. previously, infrasource was insured for workers compensation, general liability and employer liability, each subject to a deductible of $0.75 million per occurrence. infrasource was also insured for auto liability, subject to a deductible of $0.5 million per occurrence. infrasource continued to operate its own health plan for employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements through december 31, 2007, which was subject to a deductible of $150,000 per claimant per year. losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. however, insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety program. the accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends and management believes such accruals to be adequate. if we were to experience insurance claims or costs significantly above our estimates, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected in a given period. our casualty insurance carrier for prior periods is experiencing financial distress, which may require us to make payments for losses that otherwise would be insured. our casualty insurance carrier for the policy periods from august 1, 2000 to february 28, 2003 is experiencing financial distress, but is currently paying valid claims. in the event that this insurer financial situation deteriorates, we may be required to pay certain obligations that otherwise would have been paid by 20 table of contents this insurer. we estimate that the total future claim amount that this insurer is currently obligated to pay on our behalf for the above mentioned policy periods is approximately $4.5 million; however, our estimate of the potential range of these future claim amounts is between $2.1 million and $7.8 million. the actual amounts ultimately paid by us related to these claims, if any, may vary materially from the above range and could be impacted by further claims development and the extent to which the insurer can not honor its obligations. in any event, we do not expect any failure by this insurer to honor its obligations to us to have a material adverse impact on our financial condition; however, the impact could be material to our results of operations or cash flow in a given period. we may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial impact relating to occupational health and safety matters. our operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace. while we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources in our occupational health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operational risk and there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant liability exposure. although we have taken what we believe are appropriate precautions, we have suffered fatalities in the past and may suffer additional fatalities in the future. claims for damages to persons, including claims for bodily injury or loss of life, could result in substantial costs and liabilities. in addition, if our safety record were to substantially deteriorate over time, our customers could cancel our contracts and not award us future business. our profitability and financial operations may be negatively affected by changes in, or interpretations of, existing state or federal telecommunications regulations or new regulations that could adversely affect our dark fiber leasing business. in connection with the merger, we acquired infrasource dark fiber leasing business. many of the dark fiber customers benefit from the universal service e-rate program, which was established by congress in the 1996 telecommunications act and is administered by the universal service administrative company (the usac) under the oversight of the federal communications commission (fcc). under the e-rate program, schools, libraries and certain health-care facilities may receive subsidies for certain approved telecommunications services, internet access and internal connections. from time to time, bills have been introduced in congress that would eliminate or curtail the e-rate program. passage of such actions by the fcc or usac to further limit e-rate subsidies could decrease the demand for telecommunications infrastructure service by certain customers. the telecommunications services we provide through our dark fiber leasing business are subject to regulation by the fcc, to the extent that they are interstate telecommunications services, and by state regulatory agencies, when wholly within a particular state. to remain eligible to provide services under the e-rate program, we must maintain telecommunications authorizations in every state where we operate. changes in federal or state regulations could reduce the profitability of our dark fiber leasing business. we could be subject to fines if the fcc or a state regulatory agency were to determine that any of our activities or positions are not in compliance with certain regulations. if the profitability of our dark fiber leasing business were to decline, or if this business were to become subject to fines, our profitability and results of operations could also be adversely affected. our dark fiber leasing business is capital intensive and requires a substantial investment before returns can be realized. our dark fiber leasing business requires substantial amounts of capital investment to build out new fiber networks. in 2008, our proposed capital expenditures for our dark fiber leasing business is approximately $85 million, with another $75 million estimated to be expended in 2009. although we do not commit capital to new networks until we have a committed lease arrangement in place with at least one customer, we may not be able to recoup our initial investment in the network if that customer defaults on its commitment. even if the customer does not default or we add additional customers to the network, we still may not realize a return on the capital investment for an extended period of time. additionally, new or developing technologies 21 table of contents could negatively impact our dark fiber leasing business. if any of the above events occur, it could result in an impairment of our dark fiber network. many of our contracts may be canceled on short notice or may not be renewed upon completion or expiration, and we may be unsuccessful in replacing our contracts in such events. we could experience a decrease in our revenue, net income and liquidity if any of the following occur: our customers cancel a significant number of contracts or contracts having significant value; we fail to win a significant number of our existing contracts upon re-bid; we complete a significant number of non-recurring projects and cannot replace them with similar projects; or we fail to reduce operating and overhead expenses consistent with any decrease in our revenue. many of our customers may cancel our contracts on short notice, typically 30-90 days, even if we are not in default under the contract. certain of our customers assign work to us on a project-by-project basis under master service agreements. under these agreements, our customers often have no obligation to assign a specific amount of work to us. our operations could decline significantly if the anticipated volume of work is not assigned to us. many of our contracts, including our master service agreements, are opened to public bid at the expiration of their terms. there can be no assurance that we will be the successful bidder on our existing contracts that come up for re-bid. backlog may not be realized or may not result in profits. backlog is difficult to determine with certainty. customers often have no obligation under our contracts to assign or release work to us, and many contracts may be terminated on short notice. reductions in backlog due to cancellation by a customer or for other reasons could significantly reduce the revenue and profit we actually receive from contracts included in backlog. in the event of a project cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but typically have no contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. the backlog we obtain in connection with any companies we acquire, including infrasource, may not be as large as we believed or may not result in the revenue or profits we expected. in addition, projects may remain in backlog for extended periods of time. consequently, we cannot assure you as to our customers requirements or that our estimates are accurate. we extend credit to customers for purchases of our services, and in the past we have had, and in the future we may have, difficulty collecting receivables from major customers that have filed bankruptcy or are otherwise experiencing financial difficulties. we grant credit, generally without collateral, to our customers, which include electric power and gas companies, telecommunications and cable television system operators, governmental entities, general contractors, and builders, owners and managers of commercial and industrial properties located primarily in the united states. consequently, we are subject to potential credit risk related to changes in business and economic factors throughout the united states. in the past, our customers in the telecommunications business have experienced significant financial difficulties and in several instances have filed for bankruptcy. a number of our utility customers have also experienced business challenges in the past. if additional major customers file for bankruptcy or continue to experience financial difficulties, or if anticipated recoveries relating to receivables in existing bankruptcies or other workout situations fail to materialize, we could experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of current allowances provided. in addition, material changes in any of our customer revenues or cash flows could affect our ability to collect amounts due from them. 22 table of contents a portion of our business depends on our ability to provide surety bonds. we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects if we are not able to obtain the necessary surety bonds. current or future market conditions, including losses incurred in the construction industry or as a result of large corporate bankruptcies, as well as changes in our surety assessment of our operating and financial risk, could cause our surety providers to decline to issue or renew, or substantially reduce the amount of, bonds for our work and could increase our bonding costs. these actions could be taken on short notice. if our surety providers were to limit or eliminate our access to bonding, our alternatives would include seeking bonding capacity from other sureties, finding more business that does not require bonds and posting other forms of collateral for project performance, such as letters of credit or cash. we may be unable to secure these alternatives in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all, which could affect our ability to bid for or work on future projects requiring financial assurances. we have also granted security interests in various of our assets to collateralize our obligations to the surety. furthermore, under standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue or continue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing or renewing any bonds. if we were to experience an interruption or reduction in the availability of bonding capacity as a result of these or any other reasons, we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects that would require bonding. the departure of key personnel could disrupt our business. we depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and on senior management of our operating units, including the businesses we acquire. although we have entered into employment agreements with terms of one to three years with most of our executive officers and certain other key employees, we cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time. the loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business. we do not carry key-person life insurance on any of our employees. our unionized workforce could adversely affect our operations and our ability to complete future acquisitions. as of december 31, 2007, approximately 50% of our hourly employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. although the majority of these agreements prohibit strikes and work stoppages, we cannot be certain that strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the future. strikes or work stoppages would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and could cause us to lose business and decrease our revenue. additionally, these agreements may require us to participate with other companies in multi-employer pension plans. to the extent those plans are underfunded, the employee retirement income security act of 1974, as amended by the multi-employer pension plan amendments act of 1980, may subject us to substantial liabilities under those plans if we withdraw from them or they are terminated. furthermore, the pension protection act of 2006 added new funding rules generally applicable to plan years beginning after 2007 for multi-employer plans that are classified as endangered, seriously endangered, or critical status. for a plan in critical status, additional required contributions and benefit reductions apply; however, we are not currently aware of any multi-employer plan to which any of our subsidiaries contributes being in critical status. our ability to complete future acquisitions could be adversely affected because of our union status for a variety of reasons. for instance, our union agreements may be incompatible with the union agreements of a business we want to acquire and some businesses may not want to become affiliated with a union based company. additionally, we may increase our exposure to withdrawal liabilities for underfunded multi-employer pension plans to which an acquired company contributes. we may not be successful in continuing to meet the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 has introduced many requirements applicable to us regarding corporate governance and financial reporting, including the requirements for management to report on our internal 23 table of contents controls over financial reporting and for our independent registered public accounting firm to express an opinion over the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. during 2007, we continued actions to ensure our ability to comply with these requirements. as of december 31, 2007, our internal control over financial reporting was effective; however, there can be no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in future years. in accordance with sec guidance, our assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting did not include infrasource, which will be included in future assessments. failure to maintain effective internal controls or the identification of significant internal control deficiencies in infrasource or other acquisitions made during 2007 or in the future could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock and our other publicly traded securities, the reduced ability to obtain financing, the loss of customers, penalties and additional expenditures to meet the requirements. our failure to comply with environmental laws could result in significant liabilities. our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including those dealing with the handling and disposal of waste products, pcbs, fuel storage and air quality. we perform work in many different types of underground environments. if the field location maps supplied to us are not accurate, or if objects are present in the soil that are not indicated on the field location maps, our underground work could strike objects in the soil, some of which may contain pollutants. these objects may also rupture, resulting in the discharge of pollutants. in such circumstances, we may be liable for fines and damages, and we may be unable to obtain reimbursement from the parties providing the incorrect information. in addition, we perform directional drilling operations below certain environmentally sensitive terrains and water bodies. due to the inconsistent nature of the terrain and water bodies, it is possible that such directional drilling may cause a surface fracture, resulting in the release of subsurface materials. these subsurface materials may contain contaminants in excess of amounts permitted by law, potentially exposing us to remediation costs and fines. we also own and lease several facilities at which we store our equipment. some of these facilities contain fuel storage tanks which are above or below ground. if these tanks were to leak, we could be responsible for the cost of remediation as well as potential fines. in addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or leaks, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur significant costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could harm our financial condition and results of operations. in certain instances, we have obtained indemnification or covenants from third parties (including predecessors or lessors) for such cleanup and other obligations and liabilities that we believe are adequate to cover such obligations and liabilities. however, such third-party indemnities or covenants may not cover all of our costs, and such unanticipated obligations or liabilities, or future obligations and liabilities, may have a material adverse effect on our business operations or financial condition. further, we cannot be certain that we will be able to identify or be indemnified for all potential environmental liabilities relating to any acquired business. risks associated with operating in international markets could restrict our ability to expand globally and harm our business and prospects. while only a small percentage of our revenue is currently derived from international markets, we hope to continue to expand the volume of services that we provide internationally. we presently conduct our international sales efforts in canada, mexico and selected countries overseas, but expect that the number of countries that we operate in could expand significantly over the next few years. economic conditions, including those resulting from wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts, may adversely affect the global economy, our customers and their ability to pay for our services. in addition, there are numerous risks inherent in conducting our business internationally, including, but not limited to, potential instability in international markets, changes in regulatory requirements applicable to international operations, currency fluctuations in foreign countries, political, economic and social conditions in foreign countries and complex u.s. and foreign laws and treaties, including tax laws and the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act. these risks 24 table of contents could restrict our ability to provide services to international customers and could adversely affect our ability to operate our business profitably. opportunities within the government arena could lead to increased governmental regulation applicable to us and unrecoverable start-up costs. most government contracts are awarded through a regulated competitive bidding process. as we pursue increased opportunities in the government arena, management focus associated with the start up and bidding process may be diverted away from other opportunities. if we were to be successful in being awarded government contracts, a significant amount of costs could be required before any revenues were realized from these contracts. in addition, as a government contractor, we would be subject to a number of procurement rules and other public sector liabilities, any deemed violation of which could lead to fines or penalties or a loss of business. government agencies routinely audit and investigate government contractors. government agencies may review a contractor performance under its contracts, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. if government agencies determine through these audits or reviews that costs were improperly allocated to specific contracts, they will not reimburse the contractor for those costs or may require the contractor to refund previously reimbursed costs. if government agencies determine that we engaged in improper activity, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties. in addition, if the government were to even allege improper activity, we also could experience serious harm to our reputation. many government contracts must be appropriated each year. if appropriations are not made in subsequent years we would not realize all of the potential revenues from any awarded contracts. the industries we serve are subject to rapid technological and structural changes that could reduce the demand for the services we provide. the electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television industries are undergoing rapid change as a result of technological advances that could, in certain cases, reduce the demand for our services, impair the value of our dark fiber network or otherwise negatively impact our business. new or developing technologies could displace the wireline systems used for voice, video and data transmissions, and improvements in existing technology may allow telecommunications and cable television companies to significantly improve their networks without physically upgrading them. we may not have access in the future to sufficient funding to finance desired growth and operations. if we cannot secure additional financing in the future on acceptable terms, we may be unable to support our growth strategy or future operations. we cannot readily predict the ability of certain customers to pay for past services or the timing, size and success of our acquisition efforts. using cash for acquisitions limits our financial flexibility and makes us more likely to seek additional capital through future debt or equity financings. our existing debt agreements contain significant restrictions on our operational and financial flexibility, including our ability to incur additional debt or conduct equity financings, and if we seek more debt we may have to agree to additional covenants that limit our operational and financial flexibility. when we seek additional debt or equity financings, we cannot be certain that additional debt or equity will be available to us on terms acceptable to us or at all. furthermore, our credit facility has commitments from several banks. with the current turbulent credit markets resulting from, among other factors, losses from the sub-prime mortgage crisis, banks may become more restrictive in their lending practices or unable to fund their commitments, which may limit our access to the capital needed to fund our growth and operations. our convertible subordinated notes are presently convertible or may be convertible in the future, which, if converted, may result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders, lower prevailing market prices for our common stock or cause a significant cash outlay. as a result of our common stock satisfying the market price condition of our convertible subordinated notes, our 4.5% convertible subordinated notes due 2023 (4.5% notes) were convertible at the option of the holder during each quarter of 2006 and 2007, and our 3.75% convertible subordinated notes due 2026 (3.75% notes) were convertible at the option of the holders during the third quarter of 2007. during 2007, 25 table of contents $21,000 in aggregate principal amount of the 4.5% notes were settled in cash upon conversion by the holders. the remaining 4.5% notes are presently convertible at the option of each holder, and the conversion period will expire on march 31, 2008, but may continue or resume in future periods upon the satisfaction of the market price condition or other conditions. the 3.75% notes are not presently convertible, but may resume convertibility in future periods upon satisfaction of the market price condition or other conditions. at any time on or after october 8, 2008, we may redeem for cash some or all of the 4.5% notes at the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest. the holders of the 4.5% notes that are called for redemption will have the right to convert all or some of their notes. we have the right to deliver shares of our common stock, cash or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock upon a conversion of the notes. the number of shares issuable upon conversion will be determined based on a conversion rate of approximately $11.14 per share for the 4.5% notes and approximately $22.41 for the 3.75% notes. in the event that all 4.5% notes were converted for common stock, we would issue an aggregate of 24.2 million shares of our common stock. in the event that all 3.75% notes were converted for common stock, we would issue an aggregate of 6.4 million shares of our common stock. the conversion of some or all of our 4.5% or 3.75% notes into our common stock could cause substantial dilution to existing stockholders. any sales in the public market of the common stock issued upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. in addition, the possibility that the notes may be converted may encourage short-selling by market participants because the conversion of the notes could depress the price of our common stock. if we elect to satisfy the conversion obligation in cash, the amount of cash payable upon conversion of the notes will be determined by the product of (i) the number of shares issuable for the principal amount of the converted notes at a conversion rate of approximately $11.14 per share for the 4.5% notes and approximately $22.41 per share for the 3.75% notes and (ii) the average closing price of our common stock during a 20-day trading period following the holders unretracted election to convert the notes. to the extent we decide to pay cash to settle any conversions and the average closing price of our common stock during this period exceeds $11.14 per share for the 4.5% notes or $22.41 for the 3.75% notes, we would have to pay cash in excess of the principal amount of the notes being converted, which would result in the recording of a loss on extinguishment of debt. on october 1, 2008, the holders of the 4.5% notes may elect repayment, which would require us to pay, in cash, the aggregate principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, of the notes held by the holders who elect repayment. as a result of the holders repayment right, we reclassified the $270 million aggregate principal amount outstanding of the 4.5% notes into a current obligation in october 2007. currently, our common stock price exceeds the conversion price. if our common stock price exceeds the conversion price in october 2008, it is not likely that any holder of the 4.5% notes will elect repayment on october 1, 2008, but it is likely that if we were to redeem the 4.5% notes on or after october 8, 2008, the holders of the notes subject to redemption would convert their notes. on the other hand, if our common stock price is below the conversion price, it is more likely that the holders of the 4.5% notes would elect repayment or would not convert upon a redemption. we have not yet determined whether we will use cash on hand, issue equity or incur additional debt to fund our cash obligation if we are required to repay or determine to redeem the 4.5% notes. we have also not yet determined whether we will settle any conversion obligation with respect to the 4.5% notes in shares of our common stock, cash or a combination thereof. certain provisions of our corporate governing documents could make an acquisition of our company more difficult. the following provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as currently in effect, as well as our stockholder rights plan and delaware law, could discourage potential proposals to acquire us, delay or 26 table of contents prevent a change in control of us or limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock: our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to issue blank check preferred stock and to adopt amendments to our bylaws; our bylaws contain restrictions regarding the right of stockholders to nominate directors and to submit proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings; our certificate of incorporation and bylaws restrict the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to act by written consent; we are subject to provisions of delaware law which prohibit us from engaging in any of a broad range of business transactions with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date such stockholder became classified as an interested stockholder; and we have adopted a stockholder rights plan that could cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of directors or permitted by the stockholder rights plan. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 55 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks, primarily related to increases in fuel prices and adverse changes in interest rates, as discussed below. we do not enter into derivative transactions for speculative purposes; however, for accounting purposes, certain transactions may not meet the criteria for hedge accounting. we are currently not exposed to any significant market risks or interest rate risk from the use of derivatives. see currency risk below for a discussion of our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk from the use of derivatives. interest rate. our exposure to market rate risk for changes in interest rates relates to our convertible subordinated notes. the fair market value of our fixed rate convertible subordinated notes is subject to interest rate risk and market risk due to the convertible feature of our convertible subordinated notes. generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. the fair market value of our convertible subordinated notes will also increase as the market price of our stock increases and decrease as the market price falls. the interest and market value changes affect the fair market value of our convertible subordinated notes but do not impact their carrying value. as of december 31, 2006 and 2007, the fair value of our fixed-rate debt of $447.0 million and $413.8 million was approximately $692.2 million and $825.6 million, based upon market prices on or before such date. currency risk. the business of our canadian subsidiaries is subject to currency fluctuations. we do not expect any such currency risk to be material. 55 table of contentsrisk factors 14 risk factors our business is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described below. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below also may impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed and we may not be able to achieve our goals. this annual report on form 10-k also includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended as forward-looking statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and should be read in conjunction with the section entitled uncertainty of forward-looking statements and information included in item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. we typically experience lower gross and operating margins during winter months due to lower demand for our services and more difficult operating conditions. additionally, our quarterly results may be materially and adversely affected by: variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular quarter; unfavorable regional, national or global economic and market conditions; a reduction in the demand for our services; the budgetary spending patterns of customers; increases in construction and design costs; the timing and volume of work we perform; the termination of existing agreements; losses experienced in our operations not otherwise covered by insurance; a change in the mix of our customers, contracts and business; payment risk associated with the financial condition of our customers; changes in bonding and lien requirements applicable to existing and new agreements; implementation of various information systems, which could temporarily disrupt day-to-day operations; the recognition of tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions; decreases in interest rates we receive on our cash and cash equivalents; changes in accounting pronouncements which require us to account for items differently than historical pronouncements have; 14 table of contents costs we incur to support growth internally or through acquisitions or otherwise; the timing and integration of acquisitions; and the timing and magnitude of acquisition costs, integration costs and potential goodwill impairments. accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that you can expect for any other quarter or for the entire year. the recent economic downturn and the financial and credit crisis may adversely impact our customers future spending as well as payment for our services and, as a result, our operations and growth. the growth in economic activity has slowed substantially, and the u.s. economy is in a recessionary period. it is uncertain when these conditions will improve. stagnant or declining economic conditions may adversely impact the demand for our services and potentially result in the delay, reduction or cancellation of projects. many of our customers finance their projects through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. the credit markets have also declined, and the availability of credit is constrained. additionally, many of our customers equity values have substantially declined. a reduction in cash flow and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may result in a reduction in our customers spending for our services and may also impact the ability of our customers to pay amounts owed to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our ability to grow at historical levels. an economic downturn in any of the industries we serve may lead to less demand for our services. because the vast majority of our revenue is derived from a few industries, a downturn in any of those industries would adversely affect our results of operations. specifically, an economic downturn in any industry we serve could result in the delay, reduction or cancellation of projects by our customers as well as cause our customers to outsource less work, resulting in decreased demand for our services. the telecommunications and utility markets experienced substantial change during 2002 and 2003 as evidenced by an increased number of bankruptcies in the telecommunications market, continued devaluation of many of our customers debt and equity securities and pricing pressures resulting from challenges faced by major industry participants. these factors contributed to the delay and cancellation of projects and reduction of capital spending, which impacted our operations and our ability to grow at historical levels. a number of other factors, including financing conditions and potential bankruptcies in the industries we serve or a prolonged economic downturn or recession, could adversely affect our customers and their ability or willingness to fund capital expenditures in the future or pay for past services. recently, our telecommunications and cable operations have been negatively impacted by reductions in spending due to the economic downturn and volatility in the capital markets. we have seen a significant slow-down in fttp and fttn deployment from customers such as at t and verizon since the second quarter of 2008, and we anticipate this slow-down will likely continue if economic conditions remain stagnant or further deteriorate. we have also seen reduced spending in electric distribution due to capital expenditure reductions. additionally, our gas distribution installation business, which is driven in part by the housing construction market, has decreased, and continued declines in new housing construction could cause further reductions in this business. another area of our natural gas business gas gathering and pipeline installation and maintenance has also declined, which we believe is due to lower natural gas prices and capital constraints on spending by our customers. consolidation, competition, capital constraints or negative economic conditions in the electric power, gas, telecommunications or cable television industries may also result in reduced spending by, or the loss of, one or more of our customers. project delays or cancellations may result in additional costs to us, reductions in revenues or the payment of liquidated damages. in certain circumstances, we guarantee project completion by a scheduled acceptance date or achievement of certain acceptance and performance testing levels. failure to meet any of those schedules or performance requirements could result in additional costs or penalties, including liquidated damages, and such amounts could exceed expected project profit. many projects involve challenging engineering, procurement and construction phases that may occur over extended time periods, sometimes over several years. we may 15 table of contents encounter difficulties in engineering, delays in designs or materials provided by the customer or a third party, equipment and material delivery, schedule changes, delays from our customer failure to timely obtain rights-of-way, weather-related delays and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, that impact our ability to complete the project in accordance with the original delivery schedule. for example, the recent increase in demand for transmission services has strained production resources, creating significant lead times for obtaining large transformers, transmission towers and poles. as a result, electric transmission project revenues could be significantly reduced or delayed due to the difficulty we or our customers may experience in obtaining required materials. in addition, we occasionally contract with third-party subcontractors to assist us with the completion of contracts. any delay by suppliers or by subcontractors in the completion of their portion of the project, or any failure by a subcontractor to satisfactorily complete its portion of the project may result in delays in the overall progress of the project or may cause us to incur additional costs, or both. we also may encounter project delays due to local opposition, which may include injunctive actions as well as public protests, to the siting of transmission lines or other facilities. delays and additional costs may be substantial and, in some cases, we may be required to compensate the customer for such delays. we may not be able to recover all of such costs. in extreme cases, the above-mentioned factors could cause project cancellations, and we may not be able to replace such projects with similar projects or at all. such delays or cancellations may impact our reputation or relationships with customers, adversely affecting our ability to secure new contracts. project contracts may require customers or other parties to provide the design, engineering information, equipment or materials to be used on a project. in some cases, the project schedule or the design, engineering information, equipment or materials may be deficient or delivered later than required by the project schedule. our customers may change or delay various elements of the project after its commencement, resulting in additional direct or indirect costs. under these circumstances, we generally negotiate with the customer with respect to the amount of additional time required and the compensation to be paid to us. we are subject to the risk that we may be unable to obtain, through negotiation, arbitration, litigation or otherwise, adequate amounts to compensate us for the additional work or expenses incurred by us due to customer-requested change orders or failure by the customer to timely deliver items, such as engineering drawings or materials, required to be provided by the customer. litigation or arbitration of claims for compensation may be lengthy and costly, and it is often difficult to predict when and for how much the claims will be resolved. a failure to obtain adequate compensation for these matters could require us to record a reduction to amounts of revenue and gross profit recognized in prior periods under the percentage-of-completion accounting method. any such adjustments could be substantial. we may also be required to invest significant working capital to fund cost overruns while the resolution of claims is pending, which could adversely affect liquidity and financial results in any given period. we may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth. our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to: expand the range of services we offer to customers to address their evolving network needs; attract new customers; increase the number of projects performed for existing customers; hire and retain qualified employees; expand geographically, including internationally, and address the challenges presented by difficult economic or market conditions that may affect us or our customers. in addition, our customers may delay, reduce or cancel the number or size of projects available to us due to their inability to obtain capital or pay for services provided, the risk of which has become heightened in light of the recent economic downturn. many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies will be successful or that we will be 16 table of contents able to generate cash flow sufficient to fund our operations and to support internal growth. if we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to achieve internal growth of our business or expand our operations. our use of fixed price contracts could adversely affect our business. we currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, a portion of our revenues under fixed price contracts. we must estimate the costs of completing a particular project to bid for fixed price contracts. the actual cost of labor and materials, however, may vary from the costs we originally estimated. these variations, along with other risks inherent in performing fixed price contracts, may cause actual revenue and gross profits for a project to differ from those we originally estimated and could result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. depending upon the size of a particular project, variations from the estimated contract costs could have a significant impact on our operating results for any fiscal quarter or year. our use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits. as discussed in item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 hereof, a significant portion of our revenues are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, utilizing the cost-to-cost method. this method is used because management considers expended costs to be the best available measure of progress on these contracts. this accounting method is generally accepted for fixed price contracts. the percentage-of-completion accounting practice we use results in our recognizing contract revenues and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. the earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability. contract losses are recognized in full when determined to be probable and reasonably estimatable, and contract profit estimates are adjusted based on ongoing reviews of contract profitability. further, a substantial portion of our contracts contain various cost and performance incentives. penalties are recorded when known or finalized, which generally occurs during the latter stages of the contract. in addition, we record cost recovery claims when we believe recovery is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. actual collection of claims could differ from estimated amounts and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings. in certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be significant. our industry is highly competitive. our industry is served by numerous small, owner-operated private companies, some public companies and several large regional companies. in addition, relatively few barriers prevent entry into some of our industries. as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become one of our competitors. competition in the industry depends on a number of factors, including price. certain of our competitors may have lower overhead cost structures and, therefore, may be able to provide their services at lower rates than we are able to provide. in addition, some of our competitors have significant resources including financial, technical and marketing resources. we cannot be certain that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services. similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position within our industry or maintain our customer base at current levels. we also may face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers. electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television service providers usually employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services we do. we cannot be certain that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource services in the future. legislative actions and incentives relating to electric power and renewable energy may fail to result in increased demand for our services. implementation of the energy act is still subject to considerable fiscal and regulatory uncertainty. regulations implementing the components of the energy act that may affect demand for our services remain 17 table of contents in some cases subject to review in various federal courts. in one such case, decided in february 2009, a federal court of appeals vacated ferc interpretation of the scope of its backstop siting authority. accordingly, the effect of these regulations, once finally implemented, is uncertain. as a result, the legislation may not result in increased spending on the electric power transmission infrastructure. continued uncertainty regarding the implementation of the energy act may result in slower growth in demand for our services. in addition, changes to energy regulatory policy may be forthcoming due to the new administration. demand for our services also may not result from renewable energy initiatives or the arra. while 30 states currently have mandates in place that require certain percentages of power to be generated from renewable sources, states could reduce those mandates or make them optional, which would reduce, delay or eliminate renewable energy development in the affected states. additionally, renewable energy is generally more expensive to produce and may require additional power generation sources as backup. the locations of renewable energy projects are often remote and are not viable unless connectivity to the grid to transport the power to demand centers is economically feasible. furthermore, funding for renewable energy initiatives may not be available, which may be further constrained as a result of turbulent credit markets. these factors could result in fewer renewable energy projects than anticipated or a delay in the timing of construction of these projects and the related infrastructure, which would negatively affect the demand for our services. in addition, we cannot predict when programs under the arra will be implemented or the timing and scope of any investments to be made under these programs. investments for renewable energy, electric power infrastructure and telecommunications fiber deployment under arra programs may not occur, may be less than anticipated or may be delayed, which would negatively impact demand for our services. many of our contracts may be canceled on short notice or may not be renewed upon completion or expiration, and we may be unsuccessful in replacing our contracts in such events. we could experience a decrease in our revenue, net income and liquidity if any of the following occur: our customers cancel a significant number of contracts or contracts having significant value; we fail to win a significant number of our existing contracts upon re-bid; we complete a significant number of non-recurring projects and cannot replace them with similar projects; or we fail to reduce operating and overhead expenses consistent with any decrease in our revenue. many of our customers may cancel our contracts on short notice, typically 30-90 days, even if we are not in default under the contract. certain of our customers assign work to us on a project-by-project basis under master service agreements. under these agreements, our customers often have no obligation to assign a specific amount of work to us. our operations could decline significantly if the anticipated volume of work is not assigned to us, which may be more likely if customer spending decreases, for example, due to the economic downturn. many of our contracts, including our master service agreements, are opened to public bid at the expiration of their terms. there can be no assurance that we will be the successful bidder on our existing contracts that come up for re-bid. our business is labor intensive, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees. our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability will be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy. for instance, we may experience shortages of qualified journeyman linemen. in addition, we cannot be certain that our labor expenses will not increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of these skilled personnel. labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues. 18 table of contents backlog may not be realized or may not result in profits. backlog is difficult to determine with certainty. customers often have no obligation under our contracts to assign or release work to us, and many contracts may be terminated on short notice. reductions in backlog due to cancellation of one or more contracts by a customer or for other reasons could significantly reduce the revenue and profit we actually receive from contracts included in backlog. in the event of a project cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but typically have no contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. the backlog we obtain in connection with any companies we acquire may not be as large as we believed or may not result in the revenue or profits we expected. in addition, projects may remain in backlog for extended periods of time. all of these uncertainties are heightened as a result of negative economic conditions and their impact on our customers spending. consequently, we cannot assure you that our estimates of backlog are accurate or that we will be able to realize our estimated backlog. our financial results are based upon estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. in preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states, several estimates and assumptions are used by management in determining the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses recognized during the periods presented and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities known to exist as of the date of the financial statements. these estimates and assumptions must be made because certain information that is used in the preparation of our financial statements is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available or is not capable of being readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. in some cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine and we must exercise significant judgment. estimates are primarily used in our assessment of the allowance for doubtful accounts, valuation of inventory, useful lives of property and equipment, fair value assumptions in analyzing goodwill and long-lived asset impairments, self-insured claims liabilities, forfeiture estimates relating to stock-based compensation, revenue recognition under percentage-of-completion accounting and provision for income taxes. actual results for all estimates could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. factors beyond our control may affect our ability to successfully execute our acquisition strategy, which may have an adverse impact on our growth strategy. our business strategy includes expanding our presence in the industries we serve through strategic acquisitions of companies that complement or enhance our business. we expect to face competition for acquisition opportunities, and some of our competitors may have access to financing on more favorable terms than us or have greater financial resources. this competition may limit our acquisition opportunities and our ability to grow through acquisitions or could raise the prices of acquisitions and make them less accretive or possibly non-accretive to us. acquisitions that we may pursue may also involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence or the issuance of securities. any acquisition may ultimately have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be unsuccessful at integrating companies that either we have acquired or that we may acquire in the future. as a part of our business strategy, we have acquired, and seek to acquire in the future, companies that complement or enhance our business. however, we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully integrate each of these companies with our existing operations without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial problems. if we do not implement proper overall business controls, our decentralized operating strategy could result in inconsistent operating and financial practices at the companies we acquire and our overall profitability could be adversely affected. integrating our acquired companies involves a number of special risks which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including: failure of acquired companies to achieve the results we expect; 19 table of contents diversion of our management attention from operational and other matters; difficulties integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies; inability to retain key personnel of acquired companies; risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities; loss of business due to customer overlap; risks arising from the prior operations of acquired companies, such as performance, safety or workforce issues; and potential disruptions of our business. if one of our acquired companies suffers or has suffered customer dissatisfaction, performance problems or operational issues, the reputation of our entire company could suffer. our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of goodwill impairments. when we acquire a business, we record an asset called goodwill equal to the excess amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business we acquire. for example, in connection with the merger, we recorded approximately $973.1 million in goodwill and $158.8 million of intangible assets based on the application of purchase accounting. statement of financial accounting standards (sfas) no. 142 provides that goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives not be amortized, but instead be tested at least annually for impairment, and intangible assets that have finite useful lives continue to be amortized over their useful lives. sfas no. 142 provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for impairment. sfas no. 142 requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions when allocating goodwill to reporting units and determining the fair value of a reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. fair value is determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches. absent any impairment indicators, we perform our impairment tests annually during the fourth quarter. if there is a decrease in market capitalization below book value in the future, this may be considered an impairment indicator. as part of our 2006 annual test for goodwill impairment, goodwill in the amount of $56.8 million was written off as a non-cash operating expense associated with a decrease in the expected future demand for the services of one of our businesses, which has historically served the cable television industry. any future impairments, including impairments of the goodwill or intangible assets recorded in connection with the merger, would negatively impact our results of operations for the period in which the impairment is recognized. our profitability and financial operations may be negatively affected by changes in, or interpretations of, existing state or federal telecommunications regulations or new regulations that could adversely affect our dark fiber segment. in connection with the merger, we acquired infrasource dark fiber licensing business. many of the dark fiber customers benefit from the universal service e-rate program, which was established by congress in the 1996 telecommunications act and is administered by the universal service administrative company (usac) under the oversight of the federal communications commission (fcc). under the e-rate program, schools, libraries and certain health-care facilities may receive subsidies for certain approved telecommunications services, internet access and internal connections. from time to time, bills have been introduced in congress that would eliminate or curtail the e-rate program. passage of such actions by the fcc or usac to further limit e-rate subsidies could decrease the demand for telecommunications infrastructure services by certain customers. the telecommunications services we provide through our dark fiber licensing business are subject to regulation by the fcc, to the extent that they are interstate telecommunications services, and by state 20 table of contents regulatory agencies, when wholly within a particular state. to remain eligible to provide services under the e-rate program, we must maintain telecommunications authorizations in every state where we operate, and we must obtain such authorizations in any new state where we plan to operate. changes in federal or state regulations could reduce the profitability of our dark fiber licensing business, and delays in obtaining new authorizations could inhibit our ability to grow our dark fiber business in new geographic areas. we could be subject to fines if the fcc or a state regulatory agency were to determine that any of our activities or positions are not in compliance with certain regulations. if the profitability of our dark fiber licensing business were to decline, or if this business were to become subject to fines, our results of operations could also be adversely affected. our dark fiber licensing business is capital intensive and requires a substantial investment before returns can be realized. our dark fiber licensing business requires substantial amounts of capital investment to build out new fiber networks. in 2009, our proposed capital expenditures for our dark fiber licensing business is approximately $85.0 million, $70.9 million of which is related to committed licensing arrangements as of december 31, 2008. although we do not commit capital to new networks until we have a committed license arrangement in place with at least one customer, we may not be able to recoup our initial investment in the network if that customer defaults on its commitment. even if the customer does not default or we add additional customers to the network, we still may not realize a return on the capital investment for an extended period of time. additionally, new or developing technologies could negatively impact our dark fiber licensing business. if any of the above events occur, it could result in an impairment of our dark fiber network. we extend credit to customers for purchases of our services, and in the past we have had, and in the future we may have, difficulty collecting receivables from major customers that have filed for bankruptcy or are otherwise experiencing financial difficulties. we grant credit, generally without collateral, to our customers, which include electric power and gas companies, telecommunications and cable television system operators, governmental entities, general contractors, and builders, owners and managers of commercial and industrial properties located primarily in the united states. consequently, we are subject to potential credit risk related to changes in business and economic factors throughout the united states. in the past, our customers in the telecommunications business have experienced significant financial difficulties and in several instances have filed for bankruptcy. a number of our utility customers have also experienced financial and business challenges in the past. in addition, some of our customers are currently experiencing financial difficulties as a result of the recent economic downturn. if additional major customers file for bankruptcy or continue to experience financial difficulties, or if anticipated recoveries relating to receivables in existing bankruptcies or other workout situations fail to materialize, we could experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of current allowances provided. in addition, material changes in any of our customer revenues or cash flows could affect our ability to collect amounts due from them. we are self-insured against potential liabilities. although we maintain insurance policies with respect to employer liability, general liability, automobile and workers compensation claims, those policies are subject to deductibles ranging from $1.0 million to $3.0 million per occurrence depending on the insurance policy. we are primarily self-insured for all claims that do not exceed the amount of the applicable deductible. additionally, we are subject to an annual cumulative aggregate liability of up to $1.0 million on workers compensation claims in excess of $2.0 million per occurrence. we also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $350,000 per claimant per year. losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. these insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number 21 table of contents of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety program. the accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends and management believes such accruals to be adequate. if we were to experience insurance claims or costs significantly above our estimates, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected in a given period. our casualty insurance carrier for the policy periods from august 1, 2000 to february 28, 2003 has experienced financial distress. effective september 29, 2008, quanta consummated a novation transaction that released this distressed casualty insurance carrier for the policy periods august 1, 2000 to february 28, 2003 from all further obligations in connection with the policies in effect during that period in exchange for the payment to us of an agreed amount. our current casualty insurance carrier assumed all obligations under the policies in effect during that period; however, we are obligated to indemnify the carrier in full for any liabilities under the policies assumed. at december 31, 2008, we estimated that the total future claim amounts associated with the novated policies was $6.8 million, based on an estimate of the potential range of these future claim amounts at december 31, 2008 of between $2.0 million and $8.0 million. the actual amounts ultimately paid by us in connection with these claims, if any, could vary materially from the above range and could be impacted by further claims development. our unionized workforce and related obligations could adversely affect our operations. as of december 31, 2008, approximately 45% of our hourly employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. although the majority of these agreements prohibit strikes and work stoppages, we cannot be certain that strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the future. strikes or work stoppages would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and could cause us to lose business and decrease our revenue. additionally, many of these agreements require us to participate with other companies in multi-employer pension plans. to the extent those plans are underfunded, the employee retirement income security act of 1974, as amended by the multi-employer pension plan amendments act of 1980, may subject us to substantial liabilities under those plans if we withdraw from them or they are terminated. furthermore, the pension protection act of 2006 added new funding rules generally applicable to plan years beginning after 2007 for multi-employer plans that are classified as endangered, seriously endangered, or critical status. for a plan in critical status, additional required contributions or benefit reductions may apply if a plan is determined to be underfunded. our ability to complete future acquisitions could be adversely affected because of our union status for a variety of reasons. for instance, our union agreements may be incompatible with the union agreements of a business we want to acquire and some businesses may not want to become affiliated with a union-based company. additionally, we may increase our exposure to withdrawal liabilities for underfunded multi-employer pension plans to which an acquired company contributes. approximately 55% of our hourly employees are not unionized. the new presidential administration has expressed strong support for proposed legislation that would create more flexibility and opportunity for labor unions to organize non-union workers. if passed, this legislation could result in a greater percentage of our workforce being subject to collective bargaining agreements, heightening the risks described above. in addition, certain of our customers require or prefer a non-union workforce, and they may reduce the amount of work assigned to us if our labor crews were to become unionized. we may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial or reputational impacts relating to occupational health and safety matters. our operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace. while we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources in our occupational health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operational risk and there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant liability exposure. although we have taken what we believe are appropriate precautions, we have suffered fatalities in the past and may suffer additional fatalities in the future. 22 table of contents serious accidents, including fatalities, may subject us to substantial penalties, civil litigation or criminal prosecution. claims for damages to persons, including claims for bodily injury or loss of life, could result in substantial costs and liabilities, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, if our safety record were to substantially deteriorate over time or we were to suffer substantial penalties or criminal prosecution for violation of health and safety regulations, our customers could cancel our contracts and not award us future business. our dependence on suppliers, subcontractors and equipment manufacturers could expose us to the risk of loss in our operations. on certain projects, we rely on suppliers to obtain the necessary materials and subcontractors to perform portions of our services. we also rely on equipment manufacturers to provide us with the equipment required to conduct our operations. although we are not dependent on any single supplier, subcontractor or equipment manufacturer, any substantial limitation on the availability of required suppliers, subcontractors or equipment manufacturers could negatively impact our operations. the risk of a lack of available suppliers, subcontractors or equipment manufacturers is heightened under the current turbulent market conditions and economic downturn. to the extent we cannot engage subcontractors or acquire equipment or materials, we could experience losses in the performance of our operations. our business growth could outpace the capability of our corporate management infrastructure. we cannot be certain that our infrastructure will be adequate to support our operations as they expand. future growth also could impose significant additional responsibilities on members of our senior management, including the need to recruit and integrate new senior level managers and executives. we cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain such additional managers and executives. to the extent that we are unable to manage our growth effectively, or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified management, we may not be able to expand our operations or execute our business plan. during the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to lawsuits or indemnity claims, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. we have in the past been, and may in the future be, named as a defendant in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings during the ordinary course of our business. these actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract, property damage, punitive damages, civil penalties or other losses or injunctive or declaratory relief. in addition, we generally indemnify our customers for claims related to the services we provide and actions we take under our contracts with them, and, in some instances, we may be allocated risk through our contract terms for actions by our customers or other third parties. because our services in certain instances may be integral to the operation and performance of our customers infrastructure, we may become subject to lawsuits or claims for any failure of the systems that we work on, even if our services are not the cause of such failures, and we could be subject to civil and criminal liabilities to the extent that our services contributed to any property damage, personal injury or system failure. the outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings could result in significant costs and diversion of management attention to the business. payments of significant amounts, even if reserved, could adversely affect our reputation, liquidity and results of operations. we may not realize all of the anticipated synergies and other benefits from acquiring infrasource. the success of the merger will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the synergies and other benefits from acquiring infrasource. to realize these synergies and benefits, however, we must continue to successfully integrate the operations and personnel of infrasource into our business. we have substantially completed the integration of the two companies, but further integration may be required to fully realize the benefits of the merger. if this continuing integration is unsuccessful, certain anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all, may take longer or cost more to realize than expected. because we and infrasource have previously operated as independent companies, it is possible the integration may result in the future loss 23 table of contents of valuable employees, the disruption of our business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, policies and compensation arrangements. the size of the merger may also make integration difficult, expensive and disruptive, adversely affecting our revenues and earnings. a portion of our business depends on our ability to provide surety bonds. we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects if we are not able to obtain the necessary surety bonds. current or future market conditions, including losses incurred in the construction industry or as a result of large corporate bankruptcies, as well as changes in our sureties assessment of our operating and financial risk, could cause our surety providers to decline to issue or renew, or substantially reduce the amount of, bonds for our work and could increase our bonding costs. these actions could be taken on short notice. if our surety providers were to limit or eliminate our access to bonding, our alternatives would include seeking bonding capacity from other sureties, finding more business that does not require bonds and posting other forms of collateral for project performance, such as letters of credit or cash. we may be unable to secure these alternatives in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all, which could affect our ability to bid for or work on future projects requiring financial assurances. we have also granted security interests in various of our assets to collateralize our obligations to our sureties. furthermore, under standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue or continue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing or renewing any bonds. if we were to experience an interruption or reduction in the availability of bonding capacity as a result of these or any other reasons, we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects that would require bonding. the departure of key personnel could disrupt our business. we depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and on senior management of our operating units, including the businesses we acquire. although we have entered into employment agreements with terms of one to three years with most of our executive officers and certain other key employees, we cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time. the loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business. we do not carry key-person life insurance on any of our employees. we are in the process of implementing an information technology ( it ) solution, which could temporarily disrupt day-to-day operations at certain operating units. we have begun to design a comprehensive it solution that we believe will allow for a seamless interface between functions such as accounting and finance, human resources, operations, fleet management and customer relationships. development and implementation of the it solution will require substantial financial and personnel resources. implementation will occur on an operating unit by operating unit basis. while the it solution is intended to improve and enhance our information systems, implementation of new information systems at each operating unit exposes us to the risks of start-up of the new system and integration of that system with our existing systems and processes, including possible disruption of our financial reporting. failure to properly implement the it solution could result in substantial disruptions to our business, including coordinating and processing our normal business activities, testing and recording of certain data necessary to provide oversight over our disclosure controls and procedures and effective internal controls over our financial reporting, and other unforeseen problems. we may not be successful in continuing to meet the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 has many requirements applicable to us regarding corporate governance and financial reporting, including the requirements for management to report on our internal controls over financial reporting and for our independent registered public accounting firm to express an opinion over the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. during 2008, we continued actions to ensure our ability to comply with these requirements. as of december 31, 2008, our internal control over 24 table of contents financial reporting was effective; however, there can be no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in future years. failure to maintain effective internal controls or the identification of significant internal control deficiencies in acquisitions already made or made in the future could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock and our other publicly traded securities, the reduced ability to obtain financing, the loss of customers, penalties and additional expenditures to meet the requirements. our failure to comply with environmental laws could result in significant liabilities. our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including those dealing with the handling and disposal of waste products, pcbs, fuel storage and air quality. we perform work in many different types of underground environments. if the field location maps supplied to us are not accurate, or if objects are present in the soil that are not indicated on the field location maps, our underground work could strike objects in the soil, some of which may contain pollutants. these objects may also rupture, resulting in the discharge of pollutants. in such circumstances, we may be liable for fines and damages, and we may be unable to obtain reimbursement from the parties providing the incorrect information. in addition, we perform directional drilling operations below certain environmentally sensitive terrains and water bodies. due to the inconsistent nature of the terrain and water bodies, it is possible that such directional drilling may cause a surface fracture, resulting in the release of subsurface materials. these subsurface materials may contain contaminants in excess of amounts permitted by law, potentially exposing us to remediation costs and fines. we also own and lease several facilities at which we store our equipment. some of these facilities contain fuel storage tanks which are above or below ground. if these tanks were to leak, we could be responsible for the cost of remediation as well as potential fines. in addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or leaks, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur significant costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. in certain instances, we have obtained indemnification or covenants from third parties (including predecessors or lessors) for such cleanup and other obligations and liabilities that we believe are adequate to cover such obligations and liabilities. however, such third-party indemnities or covenants may not cover all of our costs, and such unanticipated obligations or liabilities, or future obligations and liabilities, may have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition or cash flows. further, we cannot be certain that we will be able to identify or be indemnified for all potential environmental liabilities relating to any acquired business. risks associated with operating in international markets could restrict our ability to expand globally and harm our business and prospects. while only a small percentage of our revenue is currently derived from international markets, we hope to continue to expand the volume of services that we provide internationally. we presently conduct our international sales efforts in canada, mexico and select countries overseas, but expect that the number of countries that we operate in could expand significantly over the next few years. economic conditions, including those resulting from wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts or volatility in the global markets, may adversely affect our customers, their demand for our services and their ability to pay for our services. in addition, there are numerous risks inherent in conducting our business internationally, including, but not limited to, potential instability in international markets, changes in regulatory requirements applicable to international operations, currency fluctuations in foreign countries, political, economic and social conditions in foreign countries and complex u.s. and foreign laws and treaties, including tax laws and the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act. these risks could restrict our ability to provide services to international customers and could adversely affect our ability to operate our business profitably. opportunities within the government arena could subject us to increased governmental regulation and costs. most government contracts are awarded through a regulated competitive bidding process. as we pursue increased opportunities in the government arena, management focus associated with the start up and bidding process may be diverted away from other opportunities. involvement with government contracts could require 25 table of contents a significant amount of costs to be incurred before any revenues are realized from these contracts. in addition, as a government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and other public sector liabilities, any deemed violation of which could lead to fines or penalties or a loss of business. government agencies routinely audit and investigate government contractors. government agencies may review a contractor performance under its contracts, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. if government agencies determine through these audits or reviews that costs were improperly allocated to specific contracts, they will not reimburse the contractor for those costs or may require the contractor to refund previously reimbursed costs. if government agencies determine that we engaged in improper activity, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties. in addition, if the government were to even allege improper activity, we also could experience serious harm to our reputation. many government contracts must be appropriated each year. if appropriations are not made in subsequent years we would not realize all of the potential revenues from any awarded contracts. the industries we serve are subject to rapid technological and structural changes that could reduce the demand for the services we provide. the electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television industries are undergoing rapid change as a result of technological advances that could, in certain cases, reduce the demand for our services, impair the value of our dark fiber network or otherwise negatively impact our business. new or developing technologies could displace the wireline systems used for voice, video and data transmissions, and improvements in existing technology may allow telecommunications and cable television companies to significantly improve their networks without physically upgrading them. we may not have access in the future to sufficient funding to finance desired growth and operations. if we cannot secure additional financing in the future on acceptable terms, we may be unable to support our growth strategy or future operations. we cannot readily predict the ability of certain customers to pay for past services, and the recent economic downturn may negatively impact the ability of our customers to pay amounts owed to us. we also cannot readily predict the timing, size and success of our acquisition efforts. using cash for acquisitions limits our financial flexibility and makes us more likely to seek additional capital through future debt or equity financings. our existing credit facility contains significant restrictions on our operational and financial flexibility, including our ability to incur additional debt or conduct equity financings, and if we seek more debt we may have to agree to additional covenants that limit our operational and financial flexibility. when we seek additional debt or equity financings, we cannot be certain that additional debt or equity will be available to us on terms acceptable to us or at all, in particular under the current volatile market conditions. furthermore, our credit facility is based upon existing commitments from several banks. with the current turbulent credit markets, banks have become more restrictive in their lending practices, and some may be unable or unwilling to fund their commitments, which may limit our access to the capital needed to fund our growth and operations. we also rely on financing companies to fund the leasing of certain of our trucks and trailers, support vehicles and specialty construction equipment. the deteriorating credit market may cause certain of these financing companies to restrict or withhold access to capital to fund the leasing of additional equipment. although we are not dependent on any single equipment lessor, a widespread lack of available capital to fund the leasing of equipment could negatively impact our future operations. additionally, the market price of our common stock may change significantly in response to various factors and events beyond our control, which will impact our ability to use equity to obtain funds. a variety of events may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly, including overall market conditions or volatility, a shortfall in our operating results from those anticipated, negative results or other unfavorable information relating to our market peers on the risk factors described in this annual report on form 10-k. 26 table of contents our convertible subordinated notes may be convertible in the future, which, if converted, may result in dilution to existing stockholders, lower prevailing market prices for our common stock or cause a significant cash outlay. as a result of our common stock satisfying the market price condition of our convertible subordinated notes, our 3.75% convertible subordinated notes due 2026 (3.75% notes) were convertible at the option of the holders during various quarters in 2007 and 2008. the 3.75% notes are not presently convertible, but may resume convertibility in future periods upon satisfaction of the market price condition or other conditions. we have the right to deliver shares of our common stock, cash or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock upon a conversion of the notes. the number of shares issuable upon conversion will be determined based on a conversion rate of approximately $22.41 for the 3.75% notes. in the event that all 3.75% notes were converted for common stock, we would issue an aggregate of 6.4 million shares of our common stock. the conversion of some or all of our 3.75% notes into our common stock would dilute existing stockholders. any sales in the public market of the common stock issued upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. in addition, the possibility that the notes may be converted may encourage short-selling by market participants because the conversion of the notes could depress the price of our common stock. if we elect to satisfy the conversion obligation in cash, the amount of cash payable upon conversion of the notes will be determined by the product of (i) the number of shares issuable for the principal amount of the converted notes at a conversion rate of approximately $22.41 per share for the 3.75% notes and (ii) the average closing price of our common stock during a 20-day trading period following the holders unretracted election to convert the notes. to the extent we decide to pay cash to settle any conversions and the average closing price of our common stock during this period exceeds $22.41 for the 3.75% notes, we would have to pay cash in excess of the principal amount of the notes being converted, which would result in the recording of a loss on extinguishment of debt. certain provisions of our corporate governing documents could make an acquisition of our company more difficult. the following provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as currently in effect, as well as our stockholder rights plan and delaware law, could discourage potential proposals to acquire us, delay or prevent a change in control of us or limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock: our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to issue blank check preferred stock and to adopt amendments to our bylaws; our bylaws contain restrictions regarding the right of stockholders to nominate directors and to submit proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings; our certificate of incorporation and bylaws restrict the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to act by written consent; we are subject to provisions of delaware law which prohibit us from engaging in any of a broad range of business transactions with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date such stockholder became classified as an interested stockholder; and we have adopted a stockholder rights plan that could cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of directors or permitted by the stockholder rights plan. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary exposure to market risk relates to unfavorable changes in concentration of credit risk, interest rates and currency exchange rates. we are currently not exposed to any significant market risks or interest rate risk from the use of derivatives. credit risk. we are subject to concentrations of credit risk related to our cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivable. substantially all of our cash investments are managed by what we believe to be high credit quality financial institutions. in accordance with our investment policies, these institutions are authorized to invest this cash in a diversified portfolio of what we believe to be high-quality investments, which primarily include interest-bearing demand deposits, money market mutual funds and investment grade commercial paper with original maturities of three months or less. although we do not currently believe the principal amounts of these investments are subject to any material risk of loss, the recent volatility in the financial markets is likely to significantly impact the interest income we receive from these investments. in addition, as we grant credit under normal payment terms, generally with collateral, we are subject to potential credit risk related to our customers ability to pay for services provided. this risk may be heightened as a result of the current financial crisis and volatility of the markets. however, we believe the concentration of credit risk related to trade accounts receivable is limited because of the diversity of our customers. we perform ongoing credit risk assessments of our customers and financial institutions and obtain collateral or other security from our customers when appropriate. interest rate. our exposure to market rate risk for changes in interest rates relates to our convertible subordinated notes. the fair market value of our fixed rate convertible subordinated notes is subject to interest rate risk because of their fixed interest rate and market risk due to the convertible feature of our convertible subordinated notes. generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. the fair market value of our convertible subordinated notes will also increase as the market price of our stock increases and decrease as the market price falls. the interest and market value changes affect the fair market value of our convertible subordinated notes but do not impact their carrying value. the fair market values of our convertible subordinated notes are determined based upon quoted secondary market prices on or before the dates specified were as follows (in millions): december 31, 2007 december 31, 2008 principal fair market principal fair market outstanding value outstanding value 4.5% notes $ 270.0 $ 640.2 $ $ 3.75% notes 143.8 185.4 143.8 136.6 total $ 413.8 $ 825.6 $ 143.8 $ 136.6 as a result of certain repurchases, redemptions and conversions, which are described in further detail in note 8 of our consolidated financial statements, none of the 4.5% notes remained outstanding as of october 8, 2008. in addition, the volatility of the credit markets is likely to significantly impact our interest income related to our cash investments. currency risk. the business of our canadian subsidiaries is subject to currency fluctuations. we do not expect any such currency risk to be material. 59 table of contentsrisk factors 8 risk factors, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for additional information and discussion regarding the potential impact of currency rate fluctuations. customers, strategic alliances and preferred provider relationships our customers include electric power, oil and gas and communications companies, as well as commercial, industrial and governmental entities. we have a large and diverse customer base, including many of the leading companies in the industries we serve. our 10 largest customers accounted for 36% of our consolidated revenues during the year ended december 31, 2017 . our largest customer accounted for 9% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended december 31, 2017 . 3 although we have a centralized marketing and business development strategy, management at each of our operating units is responsible for developing and maintaining successful long-term relationships with customers. our operating unit management teams build upon existing customer relationships to secure additional projects and increase revenues. many of these customer relationships are long-standing and are maintained through a partnering approach with centralized account management, which includes project evaluation and consulting, quality performance, performance measurement and direct customer contact. additionally, operating unit management focuses on pursuing growth opportunities with prospective customers. we also encourage operating unit management to cross-sell services of our other operating units to their customers and coordinate with our other operating units to pursue projects, especially those that are larger and more complex. our corporate-level business development group supports these activities by promoting and marketing our services for existing and prospective large national accounts, as well as projects that would require services from multiple operating units. we are a preferred service provider for many of our customers, which means we have met minimum standards for a specific category of service, maintained a high level of performance and agreed to certain payment terms and negotiated rates. we strive to maintain preferred status as we believe it provides us an advantage in the award of future work for the applicable customer. furthermore, many of our strategic relationships with customers take the form of strategic alliance or long-term maintenance agreements, which typically extend for an initial term of approximately two to five years and may include renewal options to extend the initial term. strategic alliance agreements also generally state an intention to work together over a period of time and/or on specific types of projects, and many provide us with preferential bidding procedures. backlog backlog is not a term recognized under united states generally accepted accounting principles (us gaap); however, it is a common measurement used in our industry. our methodology for determining backlog may not be comparable to the methodologies used by other companies. our backlog represents the amount of consolidated revenues that we expect to realize from future work under construction contracts, long-term maintenance contracts and master service agreements (msas). these estimates include revenues from the remaining portion of firm orders not yet completed and on which work has not yet begun, as well as revenues from change orders, renewal options, and funded and unfunded portions of government contracts to the extent that they are reasonably expected to occur. for purposes of calculating backlog, we include 100% of estimated revenues attributable to consolidated joint ventures and variable interest entities (vies). the following table presents our total backlog by reportable segment as of december 31, 2017 and 2016 , along with an estimate of the backlog amounts expected to be realized within 12 months of each balance sheet date (in thousands): backlog as of backlog as of december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 12 month total 12 month total electric power infrastructure services $ 4,032,379 $ 7,359,237 $ 3,369,373 $ 6,657,431 oil and gas infrastructure services 2,413,817 3,818,470 2,483,963 3,092,341 total $ 6,446,196 $ 11,177,707 $ 5,853,336 $ 9,749,772 revenue estimates included in our backlog can be subject to change as a result of project accelerations, cancellations or delays due to various factors, including but not limited to commercial issues, regulatory requirements and adverse weather. these factors can also cause revenue amounts to be realized in periods and at levels different than originally projected. for example, during the year ended december 31, 2017 , we reduced our 12-month backlog for the oil and gas infrastructure services segment by approximately $100 million as a result of a cancellation of a natural gas pipeline project, for which we received a termination fee. generally, our customers are not contractually committed to specific volumes of services under our msas, and most of our contracts may be terminated, typically upon 30 to 90 days notice, even if we are not in default under the contract. we determine the estimated amount of backlog for work under msas by using recurring historical trends inherent in current msas, factoring in seasonal demand and projected customer needs based upon ongoing communications with the customer. in addition, many of our msas are subject to renewal options. as of december 31, 2017 and 2016 , msas accounted for 44% and 42% of our estimated 12-month backlog and 52% and 53% of total backlog. there can be no assurance as to our customers' actual requirements or that our estimates are accurate. as discussed in note 3 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data , effective for the quarter ending march 31, 2018, we will adopt new revenue recognition guidance issued by the financial accounting standards board (fasb). pursuant to the new guidance, we will also disclose the amount of remaining performance obligations at each period end as a separate component of backlog. we expect to continue to report total backlog on a basis consistent with our current definition. 4 competition the markets in which we operate are highly competitive. we compete with other contractors in most of the geographic markets in which we operate, and several of our competitors are large companies that have significant financial, technical and marketing resources. in addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry into some of the industries in which we operate and, as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become a competitor. a significant portion of our revenues is currently derived from unit price or fixed price agreements, and price is often an important factor in the award of such agreements. accordingly, we could be underbid by our competitors in an effort by them to procure such business. we believe that as demand for our services increases, customers often consider other factors in choosing a service provider, including technical expertise and experience, financial and operational resources, nationwide presence, industry reputation and dependability, which we expect to benefit larger contractors such as us. in addition, competition may lessen as industry resources, such as labor supplies, approach capacity. there can be no assurance, however, that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services, or that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position. we also face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers, including electric power, oil and gas and engineering companies, which employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services we provide. although these companies currently outsource a significant portion of these services, in particular services relating to larger energy transmission infrastructure projects, there can be no assurance that they will continue to do so in the future or that they will not acquire additional in-house capabilities. employees as of december 31, 2017 , we had approximately 32,800 employees, consisting of approximately 8,100 salaried employees, including executive officers, professional and administrative staff, project managers and engineers, job superintendents and clerical personnel, and approximately 24,700 hourly employees, the number of which fluctuates depending upon the number and size of the projects that are ongoing and planned at any particular time. approximately 38% of our employees at december 31, 2017 were covered by collective bargaining agreements, which require the payment of specified wages to our union employees, the observance of certain workplace rules and the payment of certain amounts to multiemployer pension plans and employee benefit trusts. these collective bargaining agreements have varying terms and expiration dates, and the majority contain provisions that prohibit work stoppages or strikes, even during specified negotiation periods relating to agreement renewals, and provide for binding arbitration dispute resolution in the event of prolonged disagreement. we provide health, welfare and benefit plans for employees who are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. we also have a 401(k) plan pursuant to which eligible employees who are not provided retirement benefits through a collective bargaining agreement may make contributions through a payroll deduction. we make matching cash contributions of 100% of each employee's contribution up to 3% of that employee's salary and 50% of each employee's contribution between 3% and 6% of such employee's salary, up to the maximum amount permitted by law. our industry is experiencing a shortage of journeyman linemen in certain geographic areas. in response to the shortage and to attract qualified employees, we support and utilize various training and educational programs and have developed additional company-wide and project-specific employee training and educational programs, as described in further detail below. training, quality assurance and safety performance of our services requires the use of equipment and exposure to hazardous conditions. although we are committed to a policy of operating safely and prudently, we have been and will continue to be subject to claims by employees, customers and third parties for property damage and personal injury. in response to these inherent hazards and as part of our commitment to employee safety, our operating units have established safety programs, policies and procedures requiring that employees complete prescribed training and service programs prior to starting work. additionally, we have implemented an enterprise-wide automated external defibrillator (aed) program, which provides aeds to all of our crews and training to enhance life safety response measures. our operating units performing more sophisticated and technical jobs utilize, when applicable, training programs provided by the international brotherhood of electrical workers/national electrical contractors associations (ibew/neca) apprenticeship program, training programs sponsored by the four trade unions administered by the pipe line contractors association (plca), apprenticeship training programs sponsored by the canadian union of skilled workers (cusw) or our equivalent programs. under the ibew/neca apprenticeship program, all journeyman linemen are required to complete classroom education and on-the-job training, as well as extensive testing and certification. certain of our operating units have established apprenticeship training programs approved by the u.s. department of labor that prescribe equivalent training requirements for employees who are not otherwise subject to the requirements of the ibew/neca apprenticeship program. similarly, the cusw offers apprenticeship training for construction and maintenance electricians and powerline technicians that requires classroom education and on-the-job training. in addition, the laborers international union of north america, the international brotherhood of teamsters, the united association of plumbers and pipefitters and the international union of operating engineers have training 5 programs specifically designed for developing and improving the skills of their members who work in the pipeline construction industry. our operating units also share best practices for training and educational programs and safety policies. we have also continued to invest in our internal education and training capabilities. we recently expanded our training facility to add training for beginning linemen, lead and cable splicing and directional drilling in addition to our existing energized electric power and pipeline training. this facility helps us facilitate classroom and on-the-job training programs and allows us to train employees in a controlled environment without the challenges of limited structure access and utility constraints. additionally, we recently acquired northwest lineman college, which has four campuses across the united states and specializes in pre-apprenticeship training, apprenticeship training and specialized utility task training. we expect these capabilities to support future demand for qualified labor in the industries we serve and provide a platform for the development of additional educational and training programs. materials our customers typically supply most or all of the materials required for each job. however, for some of our contracts, we may procure all or part of the materials required. as we continue to expand our comprehensive engineering, procurement and construction offerings, the cost of materials may become a proportionately larger component of our consolidated cost of services. we do not anticipate experiencing any significant procurement difficulties, as we purchase our required materials from a variety of sources. regulation our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws and regulations including: licensing, permitting and inspection requirements applicable to contractors, electricians and engineers; regulations relating to worker safety and environmental protection; permitting and inspection requirements applicable to construction projects; wage and hour regulations; regulations relating to transportation of equipment and materials, including licensing and permitting requirements; building and electrical codes; and special bidding, procurement and other requirements on government projects. we believe that we have all the licenses required to conduct our operations and that we are in substantial compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating licenses, as well as give rise to termination or cancellation rights under our contracts or disqualify us from future bidding opportunities. environmental matters and climate change impacts we are committed to the protection of the environment and train our employees to perform their duties accordingly. we are subject to numerous federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations governing our operations, including the handling, transportation and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous substances and wastes, as well as emissions and discharges into the environment, including discharges to air, surface water, groundwater and soil. we also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and cleanup responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. under certain of these laws and regulations, liability can be imposed for cleanup of previously owned or operated properties or currently owned properties at which hazardous substances or wastes were discharged or disposed of by a former owner or operator, regardless of whether we directly caused the contamination or violated any law at the time of discharge or disposal. the presence of contamination from such substances or wastes could also interfere with ongoing operations or adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property or use it as collateral for financing. in addition, we could be held liable for significant penalties and damages under certain environmental laws and regulations or be subject to revocation of certain licenses or permits, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. our contracts with customers may also impose liability on us for environmental issues that arise through the performance of our services. from time to time, we may incur costs and obligations for correcting environmental noncompliance matters and for remediation at or relating to certain of our properties. we believe that we are in substantial compliance with our environmental obligations and that any such obligations will not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial performance. 6 the potential impact of climate change on our operations is highly uncertain. climate change may result in, among other things, changes in rainfall patterns, storm patterns and intensity and temperature levels. as discussed elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k, including in item 1a. risk factors , our operating results are significantly influenced by weather, and significant changes in historical weather patterns could significantly impact our future operating results. for example, if climate change results in drier weather and more accommodating temperatures over a greater period of time, we may be able to increase our productivity, which could positively impact our revenues and gross margins. conversely, if climate change results in a greater amount of rainfall, snow, ice or other less accommodating weather conditions, we could experience reduced productivity, which could negatively impact our revenues and gross margins. further, while an increase in severe weather events, such as hurricanes, tropical storms, blizzards and ice storms, can create a greater amount of emergency restoration service work, it often also can result in delays or other negative consequences for our existing projects, which could negatively impact our financial results. climate change could also have a negative impact on the demand for fossil fuels, which in turn could negatively impact demand for certain of our services. risk management and insurance we are insured for employer's liability, workers' compensation, auto liability and general liability claims. under these programs, the deductible for employer's liability is $1.0 million per occurrence, the deductible for workers' compensation is $5.0 million per occurrence, and the deductibles for auto liability and general liability are $10.0 million per occurrence. we manage and maintain a portion of our casualty risk through our wholly-owned captive insurance company, which insures all claims up to the amount of the applicable deductible of our third-party insurance programs. in connection with our casualty insurance programs, we are required to issue letters of credit to secure our obligations. we also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $0.4 million per claimant per year. losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimate of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. these insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the number of incidents not reported. the accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals are adequate. we renew our insurance policies on an annual basis, and therefore deductibles and levels of insurance coverage may change in future periods. in addition, insurers may cancel our coverage or determine to exclude certain items from coverage, or we may elect not to obtain certain types or incremental levels of insurance if we believe that the cost to obtain such coverage exceeds any additional benefits. in any such event, our overall risk exposure would increase, which could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. seasonality and cyclicality our revenues and results of operations can be subject to seasonal and other variations. these variations are influenced by weather, customer spending patterns, bidding seasons, receipt of required regulatory approvals, permits and rights of way, project timing and schedules, and holidays. please read the section entitled seasonality; fluctuations of results; economic conditions included in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . website access and other information our website address is www.quantaservices.com . interested parties may obtain free electronic copies of our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to these reports through our website under the heading investors &amp; media/financial info/sec filings or through the website of the securities and exchange commission (the sec) at www.sec.gov . these reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the sec. in addition, our corporate governance guidelines, code of ethics and business conduct and the charters of each of our audit committee, compensation committee, governance and nominating committee and investment committee are posted on our website under the heading investors &amp; media/governance . we intend to disclose on our website any amendments or waivers to our code of ethics and business conduct that are required to be disclosed pursuant to item 5.05 of form 8-k. free copies of these items may be obtained from our website. we will make available to any stockholder, without charge, copies of our annual report on form 10-k as filed with the sec. for copies of this or any other quanta publication, stockholders may submit a request in writing to quanta services, inc., attn: corporate secretary, 2800 post oak blvd., suite 2600, houston, tx 77056, or by phone at 713-629-7600. investors and others should note that we announce material financial information and make other public disclosures of information regarding quanta through sec filings, press releases, public conference calls, and our website. we also utilize social media to communicate this information, and it is possible that the information we post on social media could be deemed material. 7 accordingly, we encourage investors, the media and others interested in our company to follow quanta, and review the information we post, on the social media channels listed on our website in the investors &amp; media/social media section. this annual report on form 10-k, our website and our social media channels contain information provided by other sources that we believe is reliable. we cannot provide assurance that the information obtained from other sources is accurate or complete. no information on our website or our social media channels is incorporated by reference herein. item 1a. risk factors our business is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described below. the matters described below are not the only risks and uncertainties facing our company. additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below also may impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively affected, and we may not be able to achieve our goals or expectations. this annual report on form 10-k also includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended as forward-looking statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and should be read in conjunction with the section entitled uncertainty of forward-looking statements and information included in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. our business can be highly cyclical and subject to seasonal and other variations that can result in significant differences in operating results from quarter to quarter. for example, we typically experience lower gross and operating margins during winter months due to lower demand for our services and more difficult operating conditions in the northern hemisphere. additionally, our quarterly results may be materially and/or adversely affected by: the timing and volume of work we perform and our performance with respect to ongoing projects; project delays, reductions in scope or cancellations, including as a result of permitting, regulatory or environmental processes, project performance, customer capital constraints, claimed force majeure events or protests or other political activity; adverse weather conditions or events; variations in the size, scope and margins of projects we perform and the mix of our customers, contracts and business during any particular quarter; increases in construction, design, engineering or procurement costs; fluctuations in regional, national or global economic, political and market conditions and demand for our services; pricing pressures resulting from competition; the budgetary spending patterns of customers and federal, state and local governments; disruptions in our customers' strategic plans which could occur as a result of emerging technologies; the magnitude of work performed under change orders and the timing of their recognition; disputes with customers or delays relating to billing and payment terms under our contracts and change orders, and our ability to successfully negotiate and obtain payment or reimbursement under our contracts and change orders; the resolution of, or unexpected or increased costs associated with, pending or threatened litigation, indemnity obligations or other claims asserted against us; liabilities associated with multiemployer pension plans in which our employees participate, including with respect to any withdrawal therefrom; significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; 8 changes in accounting pronouncements that require us to account for items differently; liabilities and costs experienced in our operations that are not covered by third-party insurance; payment risk associated with the financial condition of our customers, including those customers affected by the volatility of natural gas and oil prices; the termination or expiration of existing customer agreements; changes in bonding and lien requirements applicable to existing and new customer agreements; implementation of various information technology systems, which could temporarily disrupt day-to-day operations; the recognition of tax impacts related to changes in tax laws or uncertain tax positions; the timing and magnitude of costs we incur to support growth internally or through acquisitions or otherwise; the timing and integration of acquisitions and the magnitude of the related acquisition and integration costs; and estimates and assumptions in determining our financial results and backlog, including the timing and significance of impairments of long-lived assets, equity or other investments, receivables, goodwill or other intangible assets. accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other quarter or for the entire year. negative economic and market conditions, including continued low oil and natural gas prices, may adversely impact our customers' future spending as well as payment for our services and, as a result, our operations and growth. stagnant or declining economic conditions can adversely impact the demand for our services and result in the delay, reduction or cancellation of certain projects. in addition, economic and market conditions specifically affecting the industries we serve could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a number of factors, including financing conditions and potential bankruptcies in the industries we serve or a prolonged economic downturn or recession, could adversely affect our customers and their ability or willingness to fund capital expenditures in the future or pay for past services. consolidation, competition, capital constraints or negative economic conditions in the electric power, oil and gas or communications industries may also result in reduced spending by, or the loss of, one or more of our customers. our oil and gas infrastructure services segment is exposed to risks associated with the oil and gas industry. these risks, which are not subject to our control, include the volatility and cyclical nature of natural gas and oil prices and the resulting effect on demand for the services we provide, and a slowdown in the development or discovery of natural gas and/or oil reserves. specifically, lower natural gas and oil prices can result in decreased spending by our customers in our oil and gas infrastructure services segment. in particular, capital spending by exploration and production companies and midstream companies has generally declined in the last few years. any future decline in prices, or perceived risk thereof, may result in our customers reducing or delaying capital spending on larger pipeline projects, gas gathering and compressor systems and related infrastructure, resulting in less demand for our services. if the profitability of our oil and gas infrastructure services segment were to decline, our overall financial position, results of operations and cash flows could also be adversely affected. additionally, declines in natural gas and oil prices, and a resulting decline in the development of resource plays and oil and natural gas production, could negatively impact our electric power infrastructure services segment. for example, the low price of oil has had an adverse impact on the canadian economy, which has impacted demand for some of our electric power services in canada. further, many of our customers finance their projects through the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. during depressed markets, our customers may be unable to access capital markets or otherwise obtain financing for budgeted capital expenditures. a reduction in cash flow or the lack of availability of debt or equity financing for our customers could result in a reduction in our customers' spending for our services and may also impact the ability of our customers to pay amounts owed to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and our ability to grow. 9 a variety of issues outside of our control could affect the timing of and our performance on projects, which may result in additional costs to us, reductions or delays in revenues or the payment of liquidated damages. our business is dependent in part upon projects that can be cyclical in nature and are subject to risks of delay. the timing of or failure to obtain contracts, delays in awards of, start dates for or completion of projects and the cancellations of projects could result in significant periodic fluctuations in our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. many projects involve challenging engineering, permitting, procurement and construction phases that may occur over extended time periods, sometimes several years. we may also encounter difficulties as a result of delays in design, engineering information or materials to be completed or procured by us, the customer or a third party; delays or difficulties in equipment and material delivery; schedule changes; delays due to our or our customers' failure to timely obtain permits or rights of way or meet other regulatory requirements or permitting conditions; weather-related delays; protests, legal challenges or other political activity; and other factors. projects where we provide engineering, procurement and construction services present additional performance risks due to the amount of work and complexity involved. the bidding processes for these projects can also be longer, often taking six to nine months, and regulatory and permitting delays on these projects tend to be more challenging and cause more timing uncertainty. in addition, we contract with third-party suppliers and subcontractors to assist us with the completion of contracts. any delay or failure by suppliers or by subcontractors in the completion of their portion of the project may result in delays in the overall progress of the project or cause us to incur additional costs. a failure by us to properly manage and invest in our equipment fleet could also negatively impact project performance and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we also may encounter project delays due to local opposition to a project, which may include injunctive actions or other legal proceedings or public protests or other political activity. many of these difficulties and delays are beyond our control and could negatively impact our ability to complete the project in accordance with the original delivery schedule or achieve our anticipated margin on the project. delays and additional costs may be substantial and not recoverable from third parties, and in some cases, we may be required to compensate the customer for such delays. in certain circumstances, we guarantee project completion or performance by a scheduled date. failure to meet any of our schedules or performance requirements could also result in additional costs or penalties, including liquidated damages, and such amounts could exceed expected project profit. in extreme cases, the above-mentioned factors could cause project cancellations, and we may not be able to replace such projects with similar projects or at all. such delays or cancellations may impact our reputation or relationships with customers, adversely affecting our ability to secure new contracts, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our business is labor intensive, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees, or incur significant costs in the event we are unable to efficiently manage our workforce. our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability is limited by our ability to employ, train and retain the necessary skilled personnel. we may not be able to maintain an adequately skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy. for instance, we may experience shortages of qualified journeyman linemen, who are integral to the provision of transmission and distribution services under our electric power infrastructure services segment. the commencement of new, large-scale infrastructure projects or increased demand for infrastructure improvements, as well as the aging electric utility workforce, may also further reduce the pool of skilled workers available to us. in addition, in our oil and gas infrastructure services segment, there is limited availability of experienced supervisors and foremen that can oversee larger diameter pipe projects. a shortage in the supply of these skilled personnel, as well as equipment operators and welders, creates competitive hiring markets and may result in increased labor expenses. additionally, if we are unable to hire employees with the requisite skills, we may also be forced to incur significant education and training expenses. labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues or profitability. furthermore, the uncertainty of contract award timing and project delays can also present difficulties in managing our workforce size. inability to efficiently manage our workforce may require us to incur costs resulting from excess staff, reductions in staff, or redundancies that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our failure to adequately recover on contract change orders or claims brought by us against customers related to payment terms and costs could materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. we have in the past brought, and may in the future bring, claims against our customers related to, among other things, the payment terms of our contracts and change orders relating to our contracts. these types of claims occur due to, among other things, customer- or third party-caused delays or changes in project scope, which may result in additional cost, which may or may not be recovered until the claim is resolved. under these circumstances, we generally negotiate with the customer for additional 10 compensation; however, we are subject to the risk that we may be unable to obtain, through negotiation, arbitration, litigation or otherwise, adequate amounts to compensate us for the additional work or expenses incurred. litigation or arbitration with respect to payment terms under contracts and change orders is generally lengthy and costly and may adversely affect our relationship with existing or potential customers, and it is often difficult to predict the timing or amount of any claim resolution. a failure to obtain adequate and prompt compensation for these matters could require us to record a reduction to revenues and gross profit recognized in prior periods under the percentage-of-completion accounting method. any such adjustments could be substantial. we may also be required to invest significant working capital to fund cost overruns while the resolution of a claim is pending, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. regulatory and environmental requirements affecting any of the industries we serve may lead to less demand for our services. because the vast majority of our revenue is derived from a few industries, the regulatory and environmental requirements affecting those industries have a material effect on our business, and increased regulatory and environmental requirements in those industries could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. customers in the industries we serve also face heightened regulatory and environmental requirements and stringent permitting processes that impact their projects, which could result in delays, reductions and cancellations of some of their projects. these regulatory factors have resulted in decreased demand for our services in the past, and they may continue to do so in the future, potentially impacting our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and our ability to grow. our failure to accurately estimate project costs or successfully execute a project could result in reduced profits or losses that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we currently generate some of our revenues under fixed price contracts, including contracts for projects where we provide engineering, procurement and construction (epc) services. we expect to generate a greater amount of revenues under these types of contracts in the future as anticipated larger and more complex projects, such as electric power transmission lines and mainline pipeline projects, become a more significant aspect of our business. under these contracts, we assume risks related to project estimates and execution, and project revenues, profitability and costs can vary, sometimes substantially, from our original projections due to a variety of factors, including: unforeseen circumstances or project modifications not included in our cost estimates or covered by our contract for which we cannot obtain adequate compensation, including concealed or unknown environmental, geological or geographical conditions; failure to accurately estimate project costs; unanticipated technical problems, including design or engineering issues; inability to achieve guaranteed performance or quality standards with regard to engineering, construction or project management obligations; failure to properly make judgments in accordance with applicable professional standards, including engineering standards; changes in the cost of equipment, commodities, materials or labor; unanticipated costs or claims due to delays or failure to perform by customers, partners, subcontractors, suppliers or other third parties; contract termination or suspension and our inability to obtain reimbursement; delays or productivity issues caused by weather conditions or severe weather events; delays and additional costs associated with obtaining required permits or approvals; changes in laws or regulations; delays and additional costs attributable to legal challenges and protests and other political activity; and quality issues, including those requiring rework or replacement; 11 additionally, we may be required to pay liquidated damages under certain of our contracts if we fail to meet schedule or performance requirements. these factors and events may result in reputational harm or cause actual revenues and gross profits for a project to differ from what we originally estimated, resulting in reduced profitability or losses on projects. such differences could be material and could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported revenues and profits. as discussed in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data , a significant portion of our revenues are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, utilizing the cost-to-cost method. this accounting method is generally accepted for fixed price contracts and is used because management considers expended costs to be the best available measure of progress on these contracts. the percentage-of-completion accounting practice we use results in the recognition of contract revenues and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. the earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability. contract losses are recognized in full when losses are determined to be probable and can be reasonably estimated, and contract profit estimates are adjusted based on an ongoing review of contract performance and profitability. further, a substantial portion of our contracts contain cost and performance incentives. penalties are recorded when known or finalized, which generally occurs during the latter stages of the contract. in addition, we record cost recovery claims when we believe recovery is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. actual collection of claims could differ from estimated amounts and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized revenues and earnings. in certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be significant. our revenues and profitability may be exposed to potential risk if a contract is terminated or canceled, our customers encounter financial difficulties or disputes arise with our customers. our contracts often require us to satisfy or achieve certain milestones in order to receive payment for the work performed, or in the case of cost-reimbursable contracts, provide support for billings in advance of receiving payment. as a result, we may incur significant costs or perform significant amounts of work prior to receipt of payment. if any of our customers do not proceed with the completion of projects, terminate or cancel a contract with us or default on their payment obligations, or if disputes arise with our customers with respect to the adequacy of billing support, we may face difficulties in collecting payment of amounts due to us for costs previously incurred. we have in the past brought, and may in the future bring, claims against our customers related to the payment terms of our contracts. a failure to promptly recover on these types of claims could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, any such claims may harm our future relationships with our customers. in addition, many of our customers for larger projects are project-specific entities that do not have significant assets other than their interests in the project and may encounter financial difficulties relating to their businesses. it may be difficult to collect amounts owed to us by these customers, and if we are unable to do so, it could have an adverse effect on our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operating results could be negatively affected by weather conditions and the nature of our work environment. we perform substantially all of our services outdoors. as a result, adverse weather conditions or events, such as extreme heat or cold, rainfall, snowfall, wind, an early thaw in canada and the northern parts of the u.s., and hurricanes or other storms, may affect our productivity or may temporarily prevent us from performing services. the effect of weather delays on projects that are under fixed price arrangements may be greater if we are unable to adjust the project schedule for such delays. as a result, adverse weather conditions or events, such as extreme heat or cold, rainfall, snowfall, wind, an early thaw in canada or the united states, and hurricanes or other storms, may affect our productivity or may temporarily prevent us from performing services. furthermore, our work is performed under a variety of conditions, including but not limited to, difficult terrain and difficult site conditions where delivery of materials and availability of labor are impacted or where there is exposure to harsh and hazardous conditions. a reduction in our productivity and efficiency in any given period or our inability to meet guaranteed schedules may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to: 12 expand the range of services we offer to customers to address their evolving infrastructure needs; attract new customers; increase the number of projects performed for existing customers; hire and retain qualified employees; expand geographically, including internationally; and address the challenges presented by stringent regulatory, environmental and permitting requirements and difficult economic or market conditions that may affect us or our customers. in addition, our customers may cancel, delay or reduce the number or size of projects available to us for a variety of reasons, including capital constraints or inability to meet regulatory requirements. many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth are beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies for achieving internal growth will be successful. inability to successfully generate internal growth may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our business is highly competitive, and competitive pressures could affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the specialty contracting business is served by numerous small, owner-operated private companies, some public companies and several large regional companies. relatively few barriers prevent entry into some areas of our business, and as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become one of our competitors. in addition, some of our competitors have significant financial, technical and marketing resources. we cannot be certain that our competitors do not have or will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services. similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position within the specialty contracting business or maintain our current customer base. certain of our competitors may have lower overhead cost structures, and therefore may be able to provide the required services at lower rates than us. we also face competition from in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers. service providers in the industries we serve are capable of performing, or acquiring businesses that perform, some of the same types of services we provide, and we cannot be certain that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource these services in the future. furthermore, a substantial portion of our revenues is directly or indirectly dependent on winning new contracts. the timing of project awards is unpredictable and often involves complex and lengthy negotiations and bidding processes. these processes could be impacted by a wide variety of factors, including price, governmental approvals, financing contingencies, commodity prices, environmental conditions and overall market and economic conditions. the competitive environment we operate in could also affect the timing of contract awards and the commencement or progress of work under awarded contracts. for example, based on rapidly changing competition dynamics, we have experienced, and may in the future experience, more competitive pricing in certain markets, such as the smaller scale transmission and distribution electric power market. our bids also may not be successful due to, among other things, a potential customer's perception of our ability to perform the work or the technological advantages held by our competitors. additionally, changing competitive pressures could present difficulties in matching workforce size with available contract awards. as a result, the competitive environment we operate in could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and could cause our results of operations and cash flows to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. technological advancements that compete with our customers' businesses or alter the services our customers require may also result in reduced demand for our services. for example, changes in technology, particularly with respect to efficient battery storage or the emergence of new, developing or alternative sources of power generation, may result in less demand for existing sources of power generation and for natural gas and oil, which could result in less demand for the services we provide. changes in government spending and legislative actions and initiatives relating to renewable energy and electric power may adversely affect demand for our services. demand for our services may not result from renewable energy initiatives. while many states currently have mandates in place that require specified percentages of power to be generated from renewable sources, those mandates could be reduced or made optional, thereby reducing, delaying or eliminating renewable energy development. additionally, renewable energy is generally more expensive to produce than energy from traditional sources and may require additional power generation sources as backup. the locations of renewable energy projects are often remote and are not viable unless new or expanded transmission infrastructure to transport the power to demand centers is economically feasible. furthermore, funding for renewable energy 13 initiatives is uncertain and in the past has been constrained by the availability of credit. these factors could result in fewer renewable energy projects than anticipated and a delay in the construction of these projects and related infrastructure, which could negatively impact our business. other current and potential legislative or regulatory initiatives may not result in increased demand for our services. examples include legislation or regulations that require utilities to meet reliability standards, ease siting and right-of-way issues for the construction of transmission lines, and encourage installation of new electric power transmission and renewable energy generation facilities. it is not certain whether existing legislation will create sufficient incentives for new projects, when or if proposed legislative initiatives will be enacted or whether any potentially beneficial provisions will be included in the final legislation. there are also a number of legislative and regulatory proposals and global, non-binding agreements that address greenhouse gas emissions, which are in various phases of discussion or implementation. the outcome of these pending federal and state proposals and possible future legislative and regulatory proposals resulting from any global agreement could negatively affect the operations of our customers through costs of compliance or restraints on projects, which could reduce their demand for our services. our business is subject to operational hazards, and we may not be insured against certain potential liabilities. our business is subject to significant operational hazards due to the nature of services provided by our workforce and the conditions in which they operate. these hazards include electricity, fires, explosions, mechanical failures and weather-related incidents. our offshore operations are subject to additional risks, including blowouts, collisions, vessels sinking or capsizing and damage from severe weather conditions. in addition, we have significant operations in california and other locations that have recently experienced and have a higher risk of wildfires. these hazards could cause personal injury and severe damage to property, equipment and the environment and could lead to suspension of operations and/or legal liabilities. we also often operate in densely populated urban areas, which could increase the impact of any of these hazards or other accidents we experience. if we are not fully insured or indemnified against such liabilities or a counterparty fails to meet its indemnification obligations to us, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. further, any such liabilities or accidents could adversely affect our safety record, which could impact our ability to bid on certain work. we are insured for employer's liability, workers' compensation, auto liability and general liability claims, but such insurance is subject to deductibles and limits and may be canceled or may not cover all of our losses. under these programs, the deductible for employer's liability is $1.0 million per occurrence, the deductible for workers' compensation is $5.0 million per occurrence, and the deductibles for auto liability and general liability are $10.0 million per occurrence. we manage and maintain a portion of our casualty risk through our wholly-owned captive insurance company, which insures all claims up to the amount of the applicable deductible of our third-party insurance programs. in connection with our casualty insurance programs, we are required to issue letters of credit to secure our obligations. we also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $0.4 million per claimant per year. our insurance policies include various coverage requirements, including the requirement to give appropriate notice. if we fail to comply with these requirements, our coverage could be denied. losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimate of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. these insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the number of incidents not reported. the accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals are adequate. if we were to experience insurance claims or costs significantly above our estimates, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. unavailability or cancellation of third-party insurance coverage would increase our overall risk exposure as well as disrupt our operations. we maintain insurance coverage from third-party insurers as part of our overall risk management strategy and because some of our contracts require us to maintain specific insurance coverage limits. however, there can be no assurance that our insurance coverages will be sufficient or effective under all circumstances or against all claims and liabilities asserted against us. additionally, we renew our insurance policies on an annual basis, and therefore deductibles and levels of coverage offered by third parties may change in future periods. there can be no assurance that any of our existing third party insurance coverage will be renewed upon the expiration of the coverage period or that future coverage will be affordable at the required limits. in addition, our third-party insurers could fail, suddenly cancel our coverage or otherwise be unable to provide us with adequate insurance coverage. for example, should our insurers determine to exclude coverage for wildfires in the future, we could be exposed to significant liabilities and a potential disruption of our operations. if our risk exposure increases as a result of adverse changes in our insurance coverage, we could be subject to increased claims and liabilities that could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 14 during the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to lawsuits or indemnity claims, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. we have in the past been, and may in the future be, named as a defendant in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business. these actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers' compensation, employment discrimination and other employment-related damages, breach of contract, property damage, environmental liabilities, multiemployer pension plan withdrawal liabilities, punitive damages, consequential damages, and civil penalties or other losses or injunctive or declaratory relief. in addition, we generally indemnify our customers for claims related to the services we provide and actions we take under our contracts, and, in some instances, we may be allocated risk through our contract terms for actions by our customers, subcontractors or other third parties. because our services in certain instances may be integral to the operation and performance of our customers' infrastructure, we have been and may become subject to lawsuits or claims for any failure of the systems that we work on, even if our services are not the cause of such failures, and we could be subject to civil and criminal liabilities to the extent that our services contributed to any property damage, personal injury or system failure. insurance coverage may not be available or may be insufficient for these lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings. the outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings could result in significant costs and diversion of management's attention from our business. payments of significant amounts, even if reserved, could materially and adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for details on our existing litigation and claims, refer to note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. many of our contracts may be canceled or suspended on short notice or may not be renewed upon completion or expiration, and we may be unsuccessful in replacing our contracts in such events, which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we could experience a decrease in our revenues, net income and liquidity if any of the following occur: our customers cancel or suspend a significant number of contracts or contracts having significant value; we fail to renew a significant number of our existing contracts; we complete a significant number of non-recurring projects and cannot replace them with similar projects; or we fail to reduce operating and overhead expenses consistent with any decrease in our revenues. many of our customers may cancel or suspend our contracts on short notice, typically 30 to 90 days, even if we are not in default under the contract. certain of our customers assign work to us on a project-by-project basis under master service agreements. under these agreements, our customers generally have no obligation to assign a specific amount of work to us. our operations could decline significantly if the anticipated volume of work is not assigned to us, which will be more likely if customer spending decreases due to, for example, unfavorable economic conditions. many of our contracts, including our master service agreements, are opened to public bid at the expiration of their terms. there can be no assurance that we will be the successful bidder on our existing contracts that are subject to re-bid in the future. the nature of our business exposes us to potential liability for warranty, engineering and other claims, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. under our contracts with customers, we typically provide warranties for the services and materials we provide, guaranteeing the work performed against, among other things, defects in workmanship, and may agree to indemnify our customers for losses related to our services. the length of the warranty periods we agree to vary and may extend for several years. as much of the work we perform is inspected by our customers for any defects in construction prior to acceptance of the project, the warranty claims that we have historically received have not been substantial. additionally, materials used in construction are often provided by the customer or are warranted against defects by the supplier. however, certain projects may have longer warranty periods and include facility performance warranties that may be broader than the warranties we generally provide. in these circumstances, if warranty claims occur, we are generally required to re-perform the services and/or repair or replace the warranted item and any other facilities impacted thereby, at our sole expense, and we could also be responsible for other damages if we are not able to adequately satisfy our warranty obligations. in addition, we may be required under contractual arrangements with our customers to warrant any defects or failures in materials we provide. while we generally require the materials suppliers to provide us warranties that are consistent with those we provide to our customers, if any of these suppliers default on their warranty obligations to us, we may incur costs to repair or replace the defective materials. costs incurred as a result of warranty claims could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. furthermore, our business involves professional judgments regarding the planning, design, development, construction, operations and management of electric power transmission, communications and pipeline infrastructure. because our projects are 15 often technically complex, our failure to make judgments and recommendations in accordance with applicable professional standards, including engineering standards, could result in damages. a significantly adverse or catastrophic event at a project site or completed project resulting from the services we performed could result in significant professional or product liability or other claims against us, as well as reputational harm. these liabilities could exceed our insurance limits or could impact our ability to obtain third-party insurance in the future. in addition, customers, subcontractors or suppliers who have agreed to indemnify us against any such liabilities or losses might refuse or be unable to pay us. an uninsured claim, either in part or in whole, if successful and of a material magnitude, could have a substantial impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our failure to adequately protect critical data, sensitive information and technology systems could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or result in harm to our reputation. we use technology in substantially all aspects of our business operations. we rely heavily on computer, information, and communications technology and related systems to manage our operations and other business processes and to protect sensitive company information. furthermore, we collect and retain personally identifiable and other sensitive information about our customers, stockholders and employees, all of which expect that we will adequately protect such information. cyber-attacks or acts of terrorism against us, our customers and/or our vendors or other breaches of our data security could cause service disruption or, in extreme circumstances, loss of control of our customers' energy infrastructure systems, which could subject us to significant liabilities, cause damage to our reputation or customer relationships, or result in regulatory investigations or actions by governmental authorities. further, strategic targets, such as energy-related assets, may be at greater risk of cyber-attacks or acts of terrorism than other targets. cyber-attacks and physical security risks, such as storms or other natural phenomena, it solution failures, network disruptions, theft and other breaches of data security, could also disrupt our operations by causing, among other things, delays in the processing of transactions or the reporting of financial results or the unintentional disclosure of company information (including confidential or proprietary information), and such cyber-attacks could go unnoticed for some period of time. a significant theft, loss, misappropriation, or inadvertent release of customer, stockholder or employee data by cyber-attack or otherwise could also adversely impact our reputation and could result in significant costs, fines and litigation. while management has taken steps to address these concerns by implementing network security and internal control measures, there can be no assurance that the above events will not occur, and such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. furthermore, the continuing and evolving threat of cyber-attacks has resulted in increased regulatory focus on prevention. to the extent we face increased regulatory requirements, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to meet such requirements. the loss of one or a few customers could have a material adverse effect on us. a few customers have in the past and may in the future account for a significant portion of our revenues in any one year or over a period of several consecutive years. although we have long-standing relationships with many of our significant customers, our customers may unilaterally reduce or discontinue their contracts with us at any time. the loss of business from a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. backlog may not be realized or may not result in profits. backlog is not a term recognized under us gaap; however, it is a common measurement used in our industry. our methodology for determining backlog may not be comparable to the methodologies used by other companies. for a discussion of how we calculate backlog for our business, please see backlog in item 1. business . furthermore, backlog is difficult to determine with certainty. customers often have no obligation under our contracts to assign or release work to us, and many contracts may be terminated on short notice. reductions in backlog due to cancellation or reduction in scope of one or more contracts or projects by a customer or for other reasons could significantly reduce the revenues and profit we actually receive from contracts included in backlog. in the event of a project cancellation or reduction in scope, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but would not have a contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. the backlog we obtain in connection with companies we acquire may not be as large as we believed and may not result in the revenues or profits we expected at the time of acquisition. in addition, projects that are delayed may remain in backlog for extended periods of time. all of these uncertainties are heightened by negative economic conditions and their impact on our customers' spending, as well as the effects of regulatory requirements and weather conditions. consequently, our estimates of backlog may not be accurate, and we may not be able to realize our estimated backlog. 16 our financial results are based upon estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. in preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with us gaap, several estimates and assumptions are used by management to report the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses recognized during the periods presented and to determine the contingent assets and liabilities known to exist as of the date of the financial statements. these estimates and assumptions are necessary because certain information used in the preparation of our financial statements is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from available data or cannot be readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. in some cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine, and we must exercise significant judgment. estimates are used primarily in our assessment of the allowance for doubtful accounts, valuation of inventory, useful lives of assets, fair value assumptions in analyzing goodwill, other intangibles and long-lived asset impairments, equity and other investments, loan receivables, purchase price allocations, acquisition-related contingent consideration liabilities, liabilities for insurance and other claims and guarantees, multiemployer pension plan withdrawal liabilities, revenue recognition for construction contracts inclusive of contractual change orders and claims, share-based compensation, operating results of reportable segments, provision (benefit) for income taxes and the calculation of uncertain tax positions. actual results for all estimates could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our inability to successfully execute our acquisition strategy may have an adverse impact on our growth strategy. our business strategy includes expanding our presence in the industries we serve through strategic acquisitions of companies that complement or enhance our business. the number of acquisition targets that meet our criteria may be limited. we may also face competition for acquisition opportunities, and other potential acquirers may offer more favorable terms or have greater financial resources available for potential acquisitions. this competition may further limit our acquisition opportunities and our ability to grow through acquisitions or could raise the prices of acquisitions and make them less accretive, or possibly not accretive, to us. failure to consummate future acquisitions could negatively affect our growth strategies. additionally, the acquisitions we complete may involve significant cash expenditures, the incurrence or assumption of debt or burdensome regulatory requirements, and any acquisition may ultimately have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be unsuccessful at integrating businesses that either we have acquired or that we may acquire in the future, which may reduce the anticipated benefit from acquired businesses. as a part of our business strategy, we have acquired, and may seek to acquire in the future, companies that complement or enhance our business. the success of this strategy will depend on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquired businesses, such as the expansion of our existing operations, elimination of redundant costs and capitalizing on cross-selling opportunities. to realize these benefits, however, we must successfully integrate the operations of the acquired businesses with our existing operations. integrating our acquired businesses involves a number of special risks, including: failure of an acquired business to achieve the results we expect; diversion of our management's attention from operational and other matters; difficulties integrating the operations and personnel of an acquired business; additional financial reporting and accounting challenges associated with integrating an acquired business; inability to retain key personnel of an acquired business; risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities associated with the operations of an acquired business; loss of business due to customer overlap or other factors; risks and liabilities arising from the prior operations of an acquired business, such as performance, operational, safety, workforce compliance or tax issues, some of which we may not have discovered during our due diligence and may not be covered by indemnification obligations; and potential disruptions of our business. we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully complete the integration process without substantial costs, delays, disruptions or other operational or financial problems. if we do not implement proper overall business controls, our decentralized operating strategy could result in inconsistent operating and financial practices at the companies we acquire. additionally, failure 17 to successfully integrate acquired businesses could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our investments expose us to risks and may result in conflicts of interest that could adversely impact our business or result in reputational harm. we have entered into strategic relationships and investment arrangements with various partners, including customers and infrastructure investors, through which we have invested and intend to invest in infrastructure assets. we expect this activity to continue in the future, both through direct investments by us and investments through the partnership structure we formed with select infrastructure investors that provides up to $1.0 billion of available capital, including approximately $80.0 million from quanta. wholly owned subsidiaries of quanta serve as the general partner of this partnership and as a separately operated registered investment adviser that manages the invested capital. these types of investments may expose us to increased risks, including poor performance by the infrastructure projects in which we have invested due to, among other things, difficult market or economic conditions or slowdowns (which may occur across one or more industries, sectors or geographies) or changes to the supply or demand and fluctuations in the price of commodities. that negative performance could result in lower investment returns for us and our customers and infrastructure investors, as well as a decline in value or total loss of our investments and the possible sale of our investments at values below our initial projections, including at a loss, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, poor performance by our investments, in particular investments through our capital partnership structure, could result in reputational harm to quanta that impairs our ability to raise or participate in raising new funds for future investment opportunities, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to secure certain future projects. further, our relationship with a customer that partners with us in a poorly performing investment could become impaired, which may negatively impact our ability to continue providing services to that customer. conflicts of interest may also exist or arise for us in relation to our investment partners as a result of our capital partnership structure or the structure of our other investment arrangements. for example, in these structures, quanta may be the contractor for a project as well as an equity investor and the manager of investments in that project. in those instances, conflicts of interest may exist for such things as contractor pricing and the handling of contractor change orders and other claims. while we have taken certain actions that we believe minimize or address these and other anticipated conflicts of interest, including through internal management practices and the terms of our agreements with investment partners, our failure to properly manage such conflicts of interest could expose us to liability or harm our relationships with investment partners, which could impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or cause reputational harm to quanta. our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of asset impairments. our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by impairments to goodwill, other intangible assets, receivables, long-lived assets or investments. for example, when we acquire a business, we record goodwill in an amount equal to the amount we paid for the business minus the fair value of the net tangible assets and other intangible assets of the acquired business. goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives cannot be amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairment. for additional description on this impairment testing, please read item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - critical accounting policies . we have recorded impairments in the past, and any future impairments, including impairments of goodwill, intangible assets, long-lived assets or investments, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations for the period in which the impairment is recognized. in addition, we enter into various types of investment arrangements in the normal course of business, each having unique terms and conditions. these investments may include equity interests we hold in business entities, including general or limited partnerships, contractual joint ventures or other forms of equity or profit participation. these investments may also include our participation in different finance structures such as the extension of loans to project specific entities, the acquisition of convertible notes issued by project specific entities or other strategic financing arrangements. our equity method investments are carried at original cost and are included in other assets, net in our consolidated balance sheet and are adjusted for our proportionate share of the investees' net income (loss) and distributions. equity investments are reviewed for impairment by assessing whether there has been a decline in the fair value of the investment below the carrying amount and whether that decline is considered to be other than temporary. in making this determination, factors such as the ability to recover the carrying amount of the investment and the inability of the investee to sustain future earnings capacity are evaluated in determining whether an impairment has occurred and should be recognized. 18 we extend credit to customers for purchases of our services and may enter into longer-term deferred payment arrangements or provide other financing or investment arrangements with certain of our customers, which subjects us to potential credit or investment risk that could, if realized, adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we grant credit, generally without collateral, to our customers, which include electric power utilities, oil and gas companies, communications providers, governmental entities, general contractors, and builders, owners and managers of renewable energy facilities and commercial and industrial properties located primarily in the united states, canada, australia and latin america. we may also agree to allow our customers to defer payment on projects until certain milestones have been met or until the projects are substantially completed, and customers typically withhold some portion of amounts due to us as retainage. in addition, we may provide other forms of financing to our customers or make investments in our customers' projects, typically in situations where we also provide services in connection with the projects. our payment arrangements subject us to potential credit risk related to changes in business and economic factors affecting our customers, including material changes in our customers' revenues or cash flows. these changes may also reduce the value of any financing or equity investment arrangements we have with our customers. many of our customers have been negatively impacted by uncertain economic conditions in recent years, and some may experience financial difficulties (including bankruptcies) that could impact our ability to collect amounts owed to us or impair the value of our investments in them. if we are unable to collect amounts owed to us, our cash flows would be reduced, and we could experience losses if those amounts exceed current allowances. we would also recognize losses with respect to any investments that are impaired as a result of our customers' financial difficulties. the risk of loss may increase for projects where we provide services and make a financing or equity investment. losses experienced could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the loss of key personnel could disrupt our business. we depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and senior management, including the management at each of our operating units. although we typically enter into employment agreements with our executive officers and other key employees for initial terms of one to three years and subsequent one-year renewal options, we cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time. the loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business. our business growth could outpace the capability of our decentralized management infrastructure. we cannot be certain that our management infrastructure will be adequate to support our operations as they expand. for example, the ability to internally communicate, coordinate and execute business strategies, plans and tactics may be negatively impacted by our increasing size and complexity. a decentralized structure places significant control and decision-making powers in the hands of our operating unit management. this contributes to the risk that we may be slower or less able to identify or react to problems affecting key business matters than we would in a more centralized environment. the lack of timely access to information may impact the quality of decision making by management. our decentralized organization creates the possibility that our operating subsidiaries assume excessive risk without appropriate guidance from our centralized legal, accounting, tax, treasury and insurance functions as to the potential overall impact. future growth could also impose significant additional responsibilities on members of our senior management, including the need to recruit and integrate new senior level managers and executives. we cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain such additional managers and executives. to the extent that we are unable to manage our growth effectively, or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified management, we may not be able to expand our operations or execute our business plan. we may be required to contribute cash to meet our underfunded obligations in certain multiemployer pension plans. our collective bargaining agreements generally require us to participate with other companies in multiemployer pension plans. to the extent those plans are underfunded, the employee retirement income security act of 1974, as amended by the multiemployer pension plan amendments act of 1980, may subject us to substantial liabilities under those plans if we withdraw from them or they are terminated or experience a mass withdrawal. for example, we have been involved in several litigation matters associated with our withdrawal from the central states, southeast and southwest areas pension plan (the central states plan), certain of which were settled in the fourth quarter of 2017. for additional information on the central states plan matters, please see collective bargaining agreements in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data . in addition, the pension protection act of 2006 added special funding and operational rules generally applicable to plan years beginning after 2007 for multiemployer plans that are classified as endangered, seriously endangered or critical status based on multiple factors (including, for example, the plan's funded percentage, cash flow position and whether it is projected to experience a minimum funding deficiency). plans in these classifications must adopt measures to improve their funded status 19 through a funding improvement or rehabilitation plan, as applicable, which may require additional contributions from employers (which may take the form of a surcharge on benefit contributions) and/or modifications to retiree benefits. certain plans to which we contribute or may contribute in the future are in endangered, seriously endangered or critical status. the amount of additional funds, if any, that we may be obligated to contribute to these plans in the future cannot be estimated due to uncertainty of the future levels of work that require the specific use of union employees covered by these plans, as well as the future contribution levels and possible surcharges on contributions applicable to these plans. our unionized workforce and related obligations could adversely affect our operations. as of december 31, 2017 , approximately 38% of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. although the majority of the collective bargaining agreements prohibit strikes and work stoppages, certain of our unionized employees have participated in strikes and work stoppages in the past, and we cannot be certain that strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the future. strikes or work stoppages could adversely impact relationships with our customers and could cause us to lose business and experience a decline in revenues. our ability to complete future acquisitions also could be adversely affected because of our union status for a variety of reasons. for instance, our union agreements may be incompatible with the union agreements of a business we want to acquire, and some businesses may not want to become affiliated with a union-based company. additionally, we may increase our exposure to withdrawal liabilities for underfunded multiemployer pension plans to which an acquired company historically contributed or presently contributes. approximately 62% of our employees are not unionized. certain of our customers require or prefer a non-union workforce, and they may reduce the amount of work assigned to us if our non-union labor crews become unionized, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial or reputational impacts relating to occupational health and safety matters. our operations are inherently dangerous and subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace. while we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources in our occupational health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operational risk, and there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant liability exposure. although we have taken what we believe are appropriate precautions, we have suffered fatalities in the past and may suffer additional fatalities in the future. serious accidents, including fatalities, may subject us to substantial penalties, civil litigation or criminal prosecution. claims for damages to persons, including claims for bodily injury or loss of life, could result in substantial costs and liabilities. in addition, if our safety record were to substantially deteriorate over time or we were to suffer substantial penalties or criminal prosecution for violation of health and safety regulations, our customers could cancel our contracts and elect to procure future services from other providers. unsafe work sites also have the potential to increase employee turnover, increase the costs of projects for our clients, and raise our operating costs. any of the foregoing could result in financial loss, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks associated with operating in international markets could restrict our ability to expand globally and harm our business and prospects. although our international operations are presently conducted primarily in canada, australia and latin america, we also perform work in other foreign countries and expect that the number of countries in which we operate and the amount of work we perform in foreign countries could increase over the next few years. economic conditions, including those resulting from wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts or volatility in global markets, may adversely affect our customers, their demand for our services and their ability to pay for our services. in addition, our international operations include business and transactions for which we are paid in local currency. payments to us in currencies other than the u.s. dollar may exceed our local currency needs, leading to the accumulation of excess local currency, which, in certain instances, may be subject to temporary blocking, costly taxes or tariffs, or other difficulties if we attempt to convert those amounts to u.s. dollars. there are also numerous other risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including, but not limited to, potential instability in international markets, changes in applicable regulatory requirements, foreign currency fluctuations, political, economic and social conditions in foreign countries, expropriation or nationalization of our assets, foreign legal systems and cultural practices dissimilar from those we are familiar with, and complex u.s. and foreign tax regulations and other laws and international treaties. these risks could restrict our ability to provide services to international customers, operate our international business profitably or fund our strategic objectives, and our overall business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted by our foreign activities. 20 compliance with and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our performance. we are subject to extensive tax liabilities imposed by multiple jurisdictions, including income taxes, indirect taxes (excise/duty, sales/use, gross receipts, and value-added taxes), payroll taxes, franchise taxes, withholding taxes, and ad valorem taxes. new tax laws, treaties and regulations and changes in existing tax laws, treaties and regulations are continuously being enacted or proposed and could result in significant changes to the tax rate on our earnings, which could have a material impact on our earnings and cash flows from operations. for example, the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the tax act), enacted in december 2017, made numerous changes to u.s. federal corporate tax laws that are anticipated to impact our effective tax rate in future periods. in addition, significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities, and our tax estimates and tax positions could be materially affected by many factors, including the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation, the introduction of new tax accounting standards, legislation, regulations and related interpretations, our global mix of earnings, the realizability of deferred tax assets and changes in uncertain tax positions. a significant increase in our tax rate could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and liquidity. we could be adversely affected by our failure to comply with the laws applicable to our foreign activities, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and other similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions prohibit u.s.-based companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. we pursue opportunities in certain parts of the world that experience government corruption, and in certain circumstances, compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. our policies mandate compliance with all applicable anti-bribery laws. further, we require our partners, subcontractors, agents and others who work for us or on our behalf to comply with the fcpa and other anti-bribery laws. although we have policies and procedures designed to ensure that we, our employees, our agents and others who work with us in foreign countries comply with the fcpa and other anti-bribery laws, there is no assurance that such policies or procedures will protect us against liability under the fcpa or other laws for actions taken by our agents, employees and intermediaries. if we are found to be liable for fcpa violations (either due to our own acts or inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could be subject to severe criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. in addition, detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged fcpa violations is expensive and could consume significant time and attention of our senior management. our participation in joint ventures exposes us to liability and/or harm to our reputation for failures of our partners. as part of our business, we have entered into joint venture arrangements and likely will continue to do so. the purpose of these joint ventures is typically to combine skills and resources to allow for the bidding and performance of particular projects. success on these jointly performed projects can be adversely affected by the performance of our joint venture partners, over whom we may have little or no control. differences in opinions or views between us and our joint venture partners could result in delayed decision-making or failure to agree on material issues that could adversely affect the business and operations of our joint ventures. additionally, the failure by a joint venture partner to comply with applicable laws, regulations or client requirements could negatively impact our business. we and our joint venture partners are generally jointly and severally liable for all liabilities and obligations of our joint ventures. if a joint venture partner fails to perform or is financially unable to bear its portion of required capital contributions or other obligations, including liabilities stemming from claims or lawsuits, we could be required to make additional investments, provide additional services or pay more than our proportionate share of a liability to make up for our partner's shortfall. further, if our partners experience cost overruns or project performance issues that we are unable to adequately address, the customer may terminate the project, which could result in legal liability to us, harm our reputation and reduce our profit or increase our loss on a project. we are in the process of implementing information technology (it) solutions, which could temporarily disrupt day-to-day operations at certain operating units. we continue to implement comprehensive it solutions that we believe will allow for the interface between functions such as accounting and finance, human resources, operations, and fleet management. continued development and implementation of the it solutions will require substantial financial and personnel resources. while the it solutions are intended to improve and enhance our information systems, implementation of new information systems at each operating unit exposes us to the risks of start-up of the new system and integration of that system with our existing systems and processes, including possible disruption of our financial reporting. there is no guarantee that we will realize economic or other intended benefits from continued development and implementation of the it solutions. additionally, the it solutions may not be developed or implemented as timely or as 21 accurately as planned. failure to properly implement the it solutions could result in substantial disruptions to our business, including coordinating and processing our normal business activities, testing and recording of certain data necessary to provide oversight over our disclosure controls and procedures and effective internal controls over our financial reporting, and other unforeseen problems. our dependence on suppliers, subcontractors and equipment manufacturers could expose us to risk of loss in our operations. on certain projects, we rely on suppliers to obtain the necessary materials and subcontractors to perform portions of our services. we also rely on equipment manufacturers to provide us with the equipment required to conduct our operations. limitations on the availability of suppliers, subcontractors or equipment manufacturers could negatively impact our operations, particularly in the event we rely on a single or small number of providers. the risk of a lack of available suppliers, subcontractors or equipment manufacturers may be heightened as a result of market and economic conditions. to the extent we cannot engage subcontractors or acquire equipment or materials, our operations could be negatively impacted. additionally, successful completion of our contracts may depend on whether our subcontractors successfully fulfill their contractual obligations. if our subcontractors fail to perform their contractual obligations as a result of financial or other difficulties, or if our subcontractors fail to meet the expected completion dates or quality standards or fail to comply with applicable laws, we may be required to incur additional costs or provide additional services in order to make up such shortfall. an increase in the prices of certain materials used in our business could adversely affect our business. for certain contracts, including where we have assumed responsibility for procuring materials for a project, we are exposed to market risk of increases in certain commodity prices of materials, such as copper and steel, which are used as components of supplies or materials utilized in all of our operations. we are also exposed to increases in energy prices, particularly as they relate to gasoline prices for our rolling-stock fleet of approximately 40,000 units. while we believe we can increase our prices to adjust for some price increases in commodities, there can be no assurance that price increases of commodities, if they were to occur, would be recoverable. additionally, some of our fixed price contracts do not allow us to adjust our prices and, as a result, increases in material or fuel costs could reduce our profitability with respect to such projects. we may not have access in the future to sufficient funding to finance desired growth and operations. if we cannot secure future funds or financing on acceptable terms, we may be unable to support our future operations or growth strategy. we use cash for acquisitions, investments and internal growth projects, and the timing and size of these efforts cannot be readily predicted and may be substantial. the use of cash on hand, cash from operations and cash from our current credit facility to fund these efforts limits our financial flexibility and may increase our need to seek capital through additional debt or equity financings. we also rely on financing companies to fund the leasing of certain of our trucks and trailers, support vehicles and specialty construction equipment. credit market conditions may cause certain of these financing companies to restrict or withhold access to capital for us to fund the leasing of additional equipment. a widespread lack of available capital to fund the leasing of equipment could negatively impact our future operations. our credit agreement contains significant restrictions, including financial covenants and other restrictions on our ability to borrow amounts under the agreement and limitations on our ability to incur additional debt or conduct certain types of preferred equity financings. our ability to increase the current commitments under our credit facility is also dependent upon additional commitments from our lenders. furthermore, if we are permitted under our credit facility to seek additional debt or equity financings, we cannot be certain they will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all, as banks are often restrictive in their lending practices, and additional debt financing may include covenants that further limit our operational and financial flexibility. if we are unable to borrow under our current credit agreement or secure other financing or if our lenders become unable or unwilling to fund their commitments to us, we may not be able to access the capital needed to fund our growth and operations. for additional information on the terms of our credit facility, please read item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - debt instruments - credit facility. additionally, the market price of our common stock may change significantly in response to various factors, including events beyond our control, which could impact our ability to utilize capital markets to obtain funds. a variety of events may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly, including overall market conditions or volatility, a shortfall in our operating results from those anticipated, negative financial results or other unfavorable information relating to our market peers or the other risks described in this annual report on form 10-k. 22 fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates may have a greater impact on our financial results as we expand into international markets. for the year ended december 31, 2017 , we derived $2.48 billion , or 26.2% , of our consolidated revenues from foreign operations, the substantial majority of which was earned in canada, australia and latin america. the functional currencies for our foreign operations are typically the currency of the country in which the foreign operating unit is located. accordingly, our financial performance is subject to fluctuation due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. as the u.s. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, our translation of foreign currency denominated revenues or expenses will result in lower u.s. dollar denominated revenues and expenses. conversely, if the u.s. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated revenues or expenses will result in increased u.s. dollar denominated revenues and expenses. for example, during the year ended december 31, 2017 , foreign revenues increase d by approximately $53 million in comparison with the year ended december 31, 2016 as a result of more favorable foreign currency exchange rates due primarily to the u.s. dollar weaken ing against the canadian and australian dollars. also, during the year ended december 31, 2016 , foreign revenues decrease d by approximately $41 million in comparison with the year ended december 31, 2015 as a result of less favorable foreign currency exchange rates due to the u.s. dollar strengthen ing against the canadian and australian dollars. we intend to expand the volume of services that we provide internationally. as a result, our reported financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be further exposed to the effects that fluctuating exchange rates have on the process of translating the financial statements of our international operations and the remeasurement of transactions which are not denominated in the reporting units' functional currencies. our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. borrowings under our credit facility are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. if interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed remains the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease. our weighted average interest rate on our variable rate debt for the year ended december 31, 2017 was 2.7% . the annual effect on our pretax earnings of a hypothetical 50 basis point increase or decrease in variable interest rates would be approximately $3.3 million based on our december 31, 2017 balance of variable rate debt. we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects if we are not able to obtain surety bonds, letters of credit or bank guarantees. a portion of our business depends on our ability to provide surety bonds, letters of credit, bank guarantees or other financial assurances. current or future market conditions, including losses incurred in the construction industry or as a result of large corporate bankruptcies, as well as changes in our sureties' assessment of our operating and financial risk, could cause our surety providers and lenders to decline to issue or renew, or substantially reduce the amount of, bid or performance bonds for our work and could increase our costs associated with collateral. these actions could be taken on short notice. if our surety providers or lenders were to limit or eliminate our access to bonding, letters of credit or guarantees, our alternatives would include seeking capacity from other sureties and lenders or finding more business that does not require bonds or that allows for other forms of collateral for project performance, such as cash. we may be unable to secure these alternatives in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all, which could affect our ability to bid for or work on future projects requiring financial assurances. we have also granted security interests in certain assets to collateralize our obligations to our sureties and lenders. furthermore, under standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue or continue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing or renewing bonds. if we were to experience an interruption or reduction in the availability of bonding capacity as a result of these or other reasons, we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects that require bonding. our failure to comply with environmental laws could result in significant liabilities. our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including those dealing with the handling and disposal of waste products, pcbs, fuel storage and air quality. we perform work in many different types of underground environments. if the field location maps supplied to us are not accurate, or if objects are present in the soil that are not indicated on the field location maps, our underground work could strike objects in the soil, some of which may contain pollutants. these objects may also rupture, resulting in the discharge of pollutants. in such circumstances, we may be liable for fines and damages, and we may be unable to obtain reimbursement from the parties providing the incorrect information. we perform work in and around environmentally sensitive areas such as rivers, lakes and wetlands. in addition, we perform directional drilling operations below certain environmentally sensitive terrains and water bodies. due to the inconsistent nature of the terrain and water bodies, it is possible that such directional drilling may cause a surface fracture, resulting in the release of subsurface materials. these 23 subsurface materials may contain contaminants in excess of amounts permitted by law, potentially exposing us to remediation costs and fines. we also own and lease several facilities at which we store our equipment. some of these facilities contain fuel storage tanks that are above or below ground. if these tanks were to leak, we could be responsible for the cost of remediation as well as potential fines. in addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or leaks, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur significant costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in certain instances, we have obtained indemnification or covenants from third parties (including predecessors or lessors) for such clean-up and other obligations and liabilities. however, such third-party indemnities or covenants may not cover all of our costs and the indemnitors may not pay amounts owed to us, and such unanticipated obligations or liabilities, or future obligations and liabilities, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. further, we cannot be certain that we will be able to identify or be indemnified for all potential environmental liabilities relating to any acquired business. there are also other legislative and regulatory proposals to address greenhouse gas emissions. these proposals, if enacted, could result in potential new regulations, additional charges to fund energy efficiency activities, or other regulatory actions. any of these actions could result in increased costs associated with our operations and impact the prices we charge our customers. for example, if new regulations are adopted regulating greenhouse gas emissions from mobile sources such as cars and trucks, we could experience a significant increase in environmental compliance costs in light of our large rolling-stock fleet. in addition, if our operations are perceived to result in high greenhouse gas emissions, our reputation could suffer. certain regulatory requirements applicable to us and our subsidiaries may result in significant compliance costs and liabilities. we are subject to various regulatory regimes and requirements that could result in significant compliance costs and liabilities. as a public company, we are subject to the corporate governance and financial reporting requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, including requirements for management to report on our internal controls over financial reporting and for our independent registered public accounting firm to express an opinion on the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. as of december 31, 2017 , our internal control over financial reporting was effective; however, there can be no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in future years. failure to maintain effective internal controls or to identify significant internal control deficiencies in acquired businesses (both prior acquisitions and future acquisitions) could result in a decrease in the market value of our publicly traded securities, a reduced ability to obtain debt and equity financing, a loss of customers, or penalties and additional expenditures to meet the requirements. one of our subsidiaries has registered as an investment adviser with the sec under the u.s. investment advisers act of 1940, as amended (the advisers act). the advisers act and the rules promulgated thereunder impose substantive and material restrictions and requirements on the operations of this subsidiary, including certain fiduciary duties that apply to its relationships with its advisory clients. the sec has broad administrative powers to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations of the advisers act, ranging from fines and censures to termination of an adviser's registration. this subsidiary is also subject to periodic sec examinations and other requirements, including, among other things, maintaining an effective compliance program, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, disclosure requirements and complying with anti-fraud prohibitions. the failure of our subsidiary to comply with the requirements of the advisers act could result in fines, suspensions of individual employees or other sanctions against our subsidiary that could have a material adverse effect on us. even if an investigation or proceeding does not result in a fine or sanction or if a fine or sanction imposed against our subsidiary or its employees were small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity relating to an investigation, proceeding or imposition of these fines or sanctions could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on us. our wholly-owned captive insurance company is a registered insurance broker with the texas department of insurance, and therefore is subject to various rules and regulations and required to meet certain capital requirements, which can result in additional use of our resources. we own and operate a postsecondary educational institution that provides pre-apprenticeship training as well as programs for experienced lineman. in order to operate, each of the institution's campuses must be authorized by the state education agency where the campus is located, and the level of regulatory oversight varies substantially by state and can be extensive. if any of our campuses fail to comply with state licensing requirements, they may be unable to offer their programs and forced to close, which could result in harm to our reputation or negatively impact our ability to train skilled personnel that can be utilized to support our industry. additionally, because our institution operates in a highly regulated industry, it is subject to compliance reviews and lawsuits or claims by government agencies and third parties. if the results of these reviews or proceedings are unfavorable to us, 24 we may be required to pay significant monetary damages or be subject to fines, limitations on the operations of the institution, injunctions or other penalties. the postsecondary educational institution is also accredited by the accrediting commission of career schools and colleges. accreditation is a non-governmental process through which a commission examines the academic quality of the instructional programs and is generally viewed as confirmation that the programs meet generally accepted academic standards and practices. if an institution fails to comply with accrediting commission requirements, the institution and/or its campuses are subject to loss of accreditation or may be placed on probation or a special monitoring or reporting status, which could ultimately result in loss of accreditation. campus closure or loss of accreditation could result in reputational harm or student-initiated litigation or negatively impact our ability to train skilled personnel that can be utilized to support our business. if we are unable to enforce our intellectual property rights or if our intellectual property rights become obsolete, our competitive position could be adversely impacted. we utilize a variety of intellectual property rights while performing our services. we view our portfolio of proprietary energized services tools and techniques and other process and design technologies as our competitive strengths, which we believe differentiate our service offerings. we may not be able to successfully preserve these intellectual property rights in the future, and these rights could be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries in which our services may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. if we are unable to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights, or if intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings succeed against us, our ability to differentiate our service offerings could be reduced. further, if our intellectual property rights or work processes become obsolete, we may not be able to differentiate our service offerings and some of our competitors may be able to offer more attractive services to our customers, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may also license certain technologies from third parties, and there is a risk that our relationships with such licensors may terminate or expire or may be interrupted or harmed. we may incur additional healthcare costs arising from federal healthcare reform legislation. in march 2010, the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (collectively aca) were signed into law in the united states. the status of the aca and any repeal or replacement thereof, is currently uncertain. changes to laws governing health insurance could have a substantial impact on our financial results. we continue to monitor developments under aca, including any potential repeal or replacement thereof, and assess the extent to which any such change could result in long-term material cost increases for us. opportunities within the government arena could subject us to increased governmental regulation and costs. most government contracts are awarded through a regulated competitive bidding process, which can often be more time consuming than the bidding process for non-governmental projects. additionally, involvement with government contracts could require a significant amount of costs to be incurred before any revenues are realized. as a government contractor, we are also subject to a number of procurement rules and other public sector regulations, any deemed violation of which could lead to fines or penalties or a loss of business. government agencies routinely audit and investigate government contractors. government agencies may review a contractor's performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. if a government agency determines that costs were improperly allocated to specific contracts, such costs will not be reimbursed or a refund of previously reimbursed costs may be required. if a government agency alleges or proves improper activity, civil and criminal penalties could be imposed and serious reputational harm could result. many government contracts must be appropriated each year. if appropriations are not made in subsequent years, we would not realize all of the potential revenues from any awarded contracts. our sale or issuance of additional common stock or other equity-related securities could dilute each stockholder's ownership interest or adversely affect the market price of our common stock. we grow our business organically as well as through acquisitions. we often fund a significant portion of the consideration paid in connection with our acquisitions with the issuance of additional equity securities, including shares of our common stock and securities that are convertible into shares of our common stock. we may issue additional equity securities in the future, including in connection with future acquisitions or other issuances of our common stock or convertible securities or otherwise. our restated certificate of incorporation provides that we may issue up to 600,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 153,342,326 shares were outstanding as of december 31, 2017 . additionally, former owners of certain acquired businesses own exchangeable shares, 486,112 of which were outstanding as of december 31, 2017 and included in the calculation of basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding. these shares are exchangeable for shares of quanta common stock on a one-for-one basis. any additional issuances of common stock or exchangeable shares could have the effect of diluting our earnings per share and our existing stockholders' individual ownership percentages and could lead 25 to volatility in the market price of our common stock. we cannot predict the effect that future issuances of our common stock or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of our common stock. certain provisions of our corporate governing documents could make an acquisition of our company more difficult. the following provisions of our charter documents, as currently in effect, and delaware law could discourage potential proposals to acquire us, delay or prevent a change in control of us or limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock: our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to issue blank check preferred stock and to adopt amendments to our bylaws; our bylaws contain restrictions regarding the right of stockholders to nominate directors and to submit proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings; our certificate of incorporation and bylaws restrict the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to act by written consent; and we are subject to provisions of delaware law which restrict us from engaging in any of a broad range of business transactions with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date such stockholder became classified as an interested stockholder. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 65 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for additional information and discussion regarding the potential impact of currency rate fluctuations. customers, strategic alliances and preferred provider relationships our customers include electric power, oil and gas and communications companies, as well as commercial, industrial and governmental entities. we have a large and diverse customer base, including many of the leading companies in the industries we serve. our 10 largest customers accounted for 36% of our consolidated revenues during the year ended december 31, 2017 . our largest customer accounted for 9% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended december 31, 2017 . 3 although we have a centralized marketing and business development strategy, management at each of our operating units is responsible for developing and maintaining successful long-term relationships with customers. our operating unit management teams build upon existing customer relationships to secure additional projects and increase revenues. many of these customer relationships are long-standing and are maintained through a partnering approach with centralized account management, which includes project evaluation and consulting, quality performance, performance measurement and direct customer contact. additionally, operating unit management focuses on pursuing growth opportunities with prospective customers. we also encourage operating unit management to cross-sell services of our other operating units to their customers and coordinate with our other operating units to pursue projects, especially those that are larger and more complex. our corporate-level business development group supports these activities by promoting and marketing our services for existing and prospective large national accounts, as well as projects that would require services from multiple operating units. we are a preferred service provider for many of our customers, which means we have met minimum standards for a specific category of service, maintained a high level of performance and agreed to certain payment terms and negotiated rates. we strive to maintain preferred status as we believe it provides us an advantage in the award of future work for the applicable customer. furthermore, many of our strategic relationships with customers take the form of strategic alliance or long-term maintenance agreements, which typically extend for an initial term of approximately two to five years and may include renewal options to extend the initial term. strategic alliance agreements also generally state an intention to work together over a period of time and/or on specific types of projects, and many provide us with preferential bidding procedures. backlog backlog is not a term recognized under united states generally accepted accounting principles (us gaap); however, it is a common measurement used in our industry. our methodology for determining backlog may not be comparable to the methodologies used by other companies. our backlog represents the amount of consolidated revenues that we expect to realize from future work under construction contracts, long-term maintenance contracts and master service agreements (msas). these estimates include revenues from the remaining portion of firm orders not yet completed and on which work has not yet begun, as well as revenues from change orders, renewal options, and funded and unfunded portions of government contracts to the extent that they are reasonably expected to occur. for purposes of calculating backlog, we include 100% of estimated revenues attributable to consolidated joint ventures and variable interest entities (vies). the following table presents our total backlog by reportable segment as of december 31, 2017 and 2016 , along with an estimate of the backlog amounts expected to be realized within 12 months of each balance sheet date (in thousands): backlog as of backlog as of december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 12 month total 12 month total electric power infrastructure services $ 4,032,379 $ 7,359,237 $ 3,369,373 $ 6,657,431 oil and gas infrastructure services 2,413,817 3,818,470 2,483,963 3,092,341 total $ 6,446,196 $ 11,177,707 $ 5,853,336 $ 9,749,772 revenue estimates included in our backlog can be subject to change as a result of project accelerations, cancellations or delays due to various factors, including but not limited to commercial issues, regulatory requirements and adverse weather. these factors can also cause revenue amounts to be realized in periods and at levels different than originally projected. for example, during the year ended december 31, 2017 , we reduced our 12-month backlog for the oil and gas infrastructure services segment by approximately $100 million as a result of a cancellation of a natural gas pipeline project, for which we received a termination fee. generally, our customers are not contractually committed to specific volumes of services under our msas, and most of our contracts may be terminated, typically upon 30 to 90 days notice, even if we are not in default under the contract. we determine the estimated amount of backlog for work under msas by using recurring historical trends inherent in current msas, factoring in seasonal demand and projected customer needs based upon ongoing communications with the customer. in addition, many of our msas are subject to renewal options. as of december 31, 2017 and 2016 , msas accounted for 44% and 42% of our estimated 12-month backlog and 52% and 53% of total backlog. there can be no assurance as to our customers' actual requirements or that our estimates are accurate. as discussed in note 3 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary exposure to market risk relates to unfavorable changes in concentration of credit risk, interest rates and currency exchange rates. credit risk. we are subject to concentrations of credit risk related to our cash and cash equivalents and our net receivable position with customers, which includes amounts related to billed and unbilled accounts receivable and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts net of advanced billings with the same customer. substantially all of our cash and cash equivalents are managed by what we believe to be high credit quality financial institutions. in accordance with our investment policies, these institutions are authorized to invest cash and cash equivalents in a diversified portfolio of what we believe to be high-quality investments, which primarily include interest-bearing demand deposits, money market investments and money market mutual funds with original maturities of three months or less. although we do not currently believe the principal amounts of these cash and cash equivalents are subject to any material risk of loss, changes in economic conditions could impact the interest income we receive from these investments. in addition, as we grant credit under normal payment terms, generally without collateral, we are subject to potential credit risk related to our customers' ability to pay for services provided. this risk may be heightened as a result of depressed economic and financial market conditions. however, we believe the concentration of credit risk related to billed and unbilled receivables and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts is limited because of the diversity of our customers. we perform ongoing credit risk assessments of our customers and financial institutions and in some cases we obtain collateral or other security from our customers. interest rate risk. as of december 31, 2017 , we had no derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate risk. as such, we were exposed to earnings and fair value risk due to changes in interest rates with respect to our long-term obligations. as of december 31, 2017 , the fair value of our variable rate debt of $668.4 million approximated book value. our weighted average interest rate on our variable rate debt for the year ended december 31, 2017 was 2.7% . the annual effect on our pretax earnings of a hypothetical 50 basis point increase or decrease in variable interest rates would be approximately $3.3 million based on our december 31, 2017 balance of variable rate debt. foreign currency risk. the u.s. dollar is the functional currency for the majority of our operations, which are primarily located within the united states. the functional currency for our foreign operations, which are primarily located in canada, australia and latin america, is typically the currency of the country in which the foreign operating unit is located. accordingly, our financial performance is subject to fluctuation due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. during 2017 , revenues from our foreign operations accounted for 26.2% of our consolidated revenues. fluctuations in foreign exchange rates during the year ended december 31, 2017 caused an increase of approximately $53 million in foreign revenues compared to the year ended december 31, 2016 . fluctuations in foreign exchange rates during the year ended december 31, 2016 caused a decrease of approximately $41 million in foreign revenues compared to the year ended december 31, 2015 . we are also subject to foreign currency risk with respect to sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies of our operating units. to minimize the risk from changes in foreign 65 currency exchange rates, we may enter into foreign currency derivative contracts to hedge our foreign currency risk on a cash flow basis. there were no outstanding foreign currency derivative contracts at december 31, 2017 . we also have foreign exchange risk related to cash and cash equivalents in foreign banks. based on the balance of cash and cash equivalents in foreign banks of $55.2 million as of december 31, 2017 , an assumed 5% adverse change to foreign exchange rates would result in a fair value decline of $2.8 million . fluctuations in fair value are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) , a separate component of stockholders' equity. 66risk factors 8 risk factors , our operating results are significantly influenced by weather, and significant changes in historical weather patterns could significantly impact our future operating results. for example, if climate change results in drier weather and more accommodating temperatures over a greater period of time, we may be able to increase our productivity, which could positively impact our revenues and gross margins. conversely, if climate change results in a greater amount of rainfall, snow, ice or other less accommodating weather conditions, we could experience reduced productivity, which could negatively impact our revenues and gross margins. further, while an increase in severe weather events, such as hurricanes, tropical storms, blizzards and ice storms, can create a greater amount of emergency restoration service work, it often also can result in delays or other negative consequences for our existing projects, which could negatively impact our financial results. climate change may also affect the conditions in which we operate, and in some cases, expose us to potentially increased liabilities associated with those environmental conditions. for example, severe drought in the western united states has increased the risk of wildfires, which in turn has potentially exposed electrical operators and contractors to increased risk of liability. concerns about climate change could also result in potential new regulations, regulatory actions or requirements to fund energy efficiency activities, any of which could negatively affect our customers and decrease demand for our services, in particular our pipeline construction services, or result in increased costs associated with our operations. for example, any decrease in demand for fossil fuels could negatively impact demand for certain of our pipeline and industrial services. we also maintain a large fleet and a significant amount of construction machinery, all of which could be impacted by new regulations related to greenhouse gas emissions from such sources. 7 risk management and insurance we are insured for employer's liability, workers' compensation, auto liability and general liability claims. under these programs, the deductible for employer's liability is $1.0 million per occurrence, the deductible for workers' compensation is $5.0 million per occurrence, and the deductibles for auto liability and general liability are $10.0 million per occurrence. we manage and maintain a portion of our casualty risk through our wholly-owned captive insurance company, which insures all claims up to the amount of the applicable deductible of our third-party insurance programs. in connection with our casualty insurance programs, we are required to issue letters of credit to secure our obligations. we also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $0.5 million per claimant per year. losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimate of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. these insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the number of incidents not reported. the accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals are adequate. we renew our insurance policies on an annual basis, and therefore deductibles and levels of insurance coverage may change in future periods. in addition, insurers may cancel our coverage or determine to exclude certain items from coverage, or we may elect not to obtain certain types or incremental levels of insurance based on the potential benefits considered relative to the cost of such insurance. in any such event, our overall risk exposure would increase, which could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. seasonality and cyclicality our revenues and results of operations can be subject to seasonal and other variations. these variations are influenced by weather, customer spending patterns, bidding seasons, receipt of required regulatory approvals, permits and rights of way, project timing and schedules, and holidays. please read the section entitled seasonality; fluctuations of results; economic conditions included in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . website access and other information our website address is www.quantaservices.com . interested parties may obtain free electronic copies of our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to these reports through our website under the heading investors &amp; media/financial info/sec filings or through the website of the securities and exchange commission (the sec) at www.sec.gov . these reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the sec. we will also make available to any stockholder, without charge, copies of our annual report on form 10-k as filed with the sec. for copies of this or any other quanta publication, stockholders may submit a request in writing to quanta services, inc., attn: corporate secretary, 2800 post oak blvd., suite 2600, houston, tx 77056, or by phone at 713-629-7600. investors and others should note that we announce material financial information and make other public disclosures of information regarding quanta through sec filings, press releases, public conference calls, and our website. we also utilize social media to communicate this information, and it is possible that the information we post on social media could be deemed material. accordingly, we encourage investors, the media and others interested in our company to follow quanta, and review the information we post, on the social media channels listed on our website in the investors &amp; media/social media section. this annual report, our website and our social media channels contain information provided by other sources that we believe is reliable. we cannot provide assurance that the information obtained from other sources is accurate or complete. no information on our website or our social media channels is incorporated by reference herein. item 1a. risk factors our business is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described below. the matters described below are not the only risks and uncertainties facing our company. additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below also may impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively affected, and we may not be able to achieve our goals or expectations. this annual report also includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended as forward-looking statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and should be read in conjunction with the section entitled uncertainty of forward-looking statements and information included in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 8 our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. our business can be highly cyclical and subject to seasonal and other variations that can result in significant differences in operating results from quarter to quarter. for example, we typically experience lower gross and operating margins during winter months due to lower demand for our services and more difficult operating conditions in the northern hemisphere. additionally, our quarterly results may be materially and/or adversely affected by: the timing and volume of work we perform and our performance with respect to ongoing projects; project delays, reductions in scope or cancellations, including as a result of permitting, regulatory or environmental processes, project performance, customer capital constraints, claimed force majeure events, protests or other political activity, or legal challenges; adverse weather conditions and significant weather events; variations in the size, scope and margins of projects we perform and the mix of our customers, contracts and business during any particular quarter; increases in construction, design, engineering or procurement costs; fluctuations in regional, national or global economic, political and market conditions, including as a result of tariffs or changes in u.s. trade relationships with other countries, which could result in decreased demand for our services; pricing pressures resulting from competition; the budgetary spending patterns of customers and federal, state and local governments; disruptions in our customers' strategic plans, which could occur as a result of, among other things, emerging technologies, financial difficulties of our customers or changing environmental conditions; the magnitude of work performed under change orders and the timing of their recognition; liabilities and costs experienced in our operations that are not covered by, or that are in excess of, our third-party insurance, including significant liabilities that may arise from the inherently hazardous conditions of our operations (e.g., explosions, fires) and which could be exacerbated by the geographies in which we operate; disputes with customers or delays relating to billing and payment under our contracts and change orders, and our ability to successfully negotiate and obtain payment or reimbursement under our contracts and change orders; the resolution of, or unexpected or increased costs associated with, pending or threatened litigation, indemnity obligations or other claims asserted against us; liabilities associated with multiemployer pension plans in which our employees participate, including with respect to any withdrawal therefrom; significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in accounting pronouncements that require us to account for items differently; payment risk associated with the financial condition of our customers, including those customers affected by the volatility of natural gas and oil prices or that have filed for bankruptcy protection; the termination or expiration of existing customer agreements; changes in bonding and lien requirements applicable to existing and new customer agreements; implementation of various information technology systems, which could temporarily disrupt day-to-day operations; 9 the decision by our board of directors to pay a dividend and market expectations with respect to the payment and amount of any dividends; the recognition of tax impacts related to changes in tax laws or uncertain tax positions; the timing and magnitude of costs we incur to support growth internally or through acquisitions or otherwise; the timing and integration of acquisitions and the magnitude of the related acquisition and integration costs; and estimates and assumptions in determining our financial results, remaining performance obligations and backlog, including the timing and significance of impairments of long-lived assets, equity or other investments, receivables, goodwill or other intangible assets. accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other quarter or for the entire year. negative economic and market conditions, including low oil and natural gas prices, may adversely impact our customers' future spending as well as payment for our services and, as a result, our operations and growth. stagnant or declining economic conditions can adversely impact the demand for our services and result in the delay, reduction or cancellation of certain projects. in addition, economic and market conditions specifically affecting the industries we serve could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a number of factors, including financing conditions and potential bankruptcies in the industries we serve or a prolonged economic downturn or recession, could adversely affect our customers and their ability or willingness to fund capital expenditures in the future or pay for past services. consolidation, competition, capital constraints or negative economic conditions in the electric power, energy or communications industries may also result in reduced spending by, or the loss of, one or more of our customers. our pipeline and industrial infrastructure services segment is exposed to risks associated with the oil and gas industry. these risks, which are not subject to our control, include the volatility and cyclical nature of natural gas and oil prices and the resulting effect on demand for the services we provide, and a slowdown in the development or discovery of natural gas and/or oil reserves. specifically, lower natural gas and oil prices can result in decreased spending by our customers in our pipeline and industrial infrastructure services segment. declines in prices, or perceived risk thereof, may result in our customers reducing or delaying capital spending on larger pipeline projects, gas gathering and compressor systems and related infrastructure, resulting in less demand for our services. if the profitability of our pipeline and industrial infrastructure services segment were to decline, our overall financial position, results of operations and cash flows could also be adversely affected. additionally, declines in natural gas and oil prices, and a resulting decline in the development of resource plays and oil and natural gas production, could negatively impact our electric power infrastructure services segment. for example, the low price of oil has had an adverse impact on the canadian economy, which has impacted demand for some of our electric power services in canada. further, many of our customers finance their projects through the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. during depressed markets, our customers may be unable to access capital markets or otherwise obtain financing for budgeted capital expenditures. a reduction in cash flow or the lack of availability of debt or equity financing for our customers could result in a reduction in our customers' spending for our services and may also impact the ability of our customers to pay amounts owed to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and our ability to grow. a variety of issues outside of our control could affect the timing of and our performance on projects, which may result in additional costs to us, reductions or delays in revenues or the payment of liquidated damages. our business is dependent in part upon projects that can be cyclical in nature and are subject to risks of delay or cancellation. the timing of or failure to obtain contracts, delays in awards of, start dates for or completion of projects and the cancellations of projects could result in significant periodic fluctuations in our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. many projects involve challenging engineering, permitting, procurement and construction phases that may occur over extended time periods, sometimes several years. we may also encounter difficulties as a result of delays in design, engineering information or materials to be completed or procured by us, the customer or a third party; delays or difficulties in equipment and material delivery; schedule changes; delays due to our or our customers' failure to timely obtain permits or rights of way or meet other regulatory requirements or permitting conditions; weather-related delays; protests, legal challenges or other political activity; and other factors. furthermore, regulatory requirements for a project may change during the course of our work, which can result in the suspension of work as permits are reissued or updated. projects where we provide engineering, procurement and construction services present additional performance risks due to the amount of work and complexity involved. the bidding processes for these 10 projects can also be longer, often taking six to nine months, and regulatory and permitting delays on these projects tend to be more challenging and cause more timing uncertainty. in addition, we contract with third-party suppliers and subcontractors to assist us with the completion of contracts. any delay or failure by suppliers or by subcontractors in the completion of their portion of the project may result in delays in the overall progress of the project or cause us to incur additional costs. a failure by us to properly manage and invest in our equipment fleet could also negatively impact project performance and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we also may encounter project delays due to local opposition to a project, which may include injunctive actions or other legal proceedings or public protests or other political activity. many of these difficulties and delays are beyond our control and could negatively impact our ability to complete the project in accordance with the original delivery schedule or achieve our anticipated margin on the project. delays and additional costs may be substantial and not recoverable from third parties, and in some cases, we may be required to compensate the customer for such delays. in certain circumstances, we guarantee project completion or performance by a scheduled date. failure to meet any of our schedules or performance requirements could also result in additional costs or penalties, including liquidated damages, and such amounts could exceed expected project profit. in extreme cases, the above-mentioned factors could cause project cancellations, and we may not be able to replace such projects with similar projects or at all. such delays or cancellations may impact our reputation or relationships with customers, adversely affecting our ability to secure new contracts, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our business is labor intensive, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees, or incur significant costs in the event we are unable to efficiently manage our workforce. our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability is limited by our ability to employ, train and retain the necessary skilled personnel. we may not be able to maintain an adequately skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy. for instance, we may experience shortages of qualified journeyman linemen, who are integral to the provision of transmission and distribution services under our electric power infrastructure services segment. the commencement of new, large-scale infrastructure projects or increased demand for infrastructure improvements, as well as the aging electric utility workforce, may also further reduce the pool of skilled workers available to us. in addition, in our pipeline and industrial infrastructure services segment, there is limited availability of experienced supervisors and foremen that can oversee larger diameter pipeline projects. a shortage in the supply of these skilled personnel, as well as equipment operators and welders, creates competitive hiring markets and may result in increased labor expenses. additionally, if we are unable to hire employees with the requisite skills, we may also be forced to incur significant education and training expenses. labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues or profitability. furthermore, the uncertainty of contract award timing and project delays can also present difficulties in managing our workforce size. inability to efficiently manage our workforce may require us to incur costs resulting from excess staff, reductions in staff, or redundancies that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the loss of one or a few customers could have a material adverse effect on us. a few customers have in the past and may in the future account for a significant portion of our revenues in any one year or over a period of several consecutive years. although we have long-standing relationships with many of our significant customers, a significant customer may unilaterally reduce or discontinue business with us at any time or merge or be acquired by a company that decides to reduce or discontinue business with us. a significant customer could also file for bankruptcy protection or cease operations, which could result in reduced or discontinued business with us. the loss of business from a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our failure to adequately recover on contract change orders or claims brought by us against customers related to payment terms and costs could materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. we have in the past brought, and may in the future bring, claims against our customers related to, among other things, the payment terms of our contracts and change orders relating to our contracts. these types of claims occur due to, among other things, customer- or third party-caused delays or changes in project scope, which may result in additional costs, which may or may not be recovered until the claim is resolved. under these circumstances, we generally negotiate with the customer for additional compensation; however, we are subject to the risk that we may be unable to obtain, through negotiation, arbitration, litigation or otherwise, adequate amounts to compensate us for the additional work or expenses incurred. litigation or arbitration with respect to payment terms under contracts and change orders is generally lengthy and costly and may adversely affect our relationship with existing or potential customers, and it is often difficult to predict the timing or amount of any claim resolution. a failure to obtain adequate and prompt compensation for these matters could require us to record a reduction to revenues and gross profit recognized 11 in prior periods under the percentage-of-completion accounting method. any such adjustments could be substantial. we may also be required to invest significant working capital to fund cost overruns while the resolution of a claim is pending, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. regulatory requirements affecting any of the industries we serve may result in delays or cancellations of projects or less demand for our services. because the vast majority of our revenue is derived from a few industries, the federal, state and local regulations affecting those industries, including, among other things, environmental, safety, and permitting requirements, have a material effect on our business, and increased regulatory requirements could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in recent years, our customers have faced heightened regulatory requirements and increased regulatory enforcement, which have resulted in delays and reductions in scope and cancellations of projects. increased regulatory requirements have also decreased demand for our services in the past, and may do so in the future, potentially impacting our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and our ability to grow. additionally, certain regulatory requirements applicable to our customers are also required of us when we contract with such customers, and our inability to meet those requirements could also result in decreased demand for our services. our failure to accurately estimate project costs or successfully execute a project could result in reduced profits or losses that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we currently generate some of our revenues under fixed price contracts, including contracts for projects where we provide engineering, procurement and construction (epc) services, and we expect to continue generating varying amounts of revenues under these types of contracts on various projects, such as electric power transmission line and mainline pipeline projects. under these contracts, we assume risks related to project estimates and execution, and project revenues, profitability and costs can vary, sometimes substantially, from our original projections due to a variety of factors, including: unforeseen circumstances or project modifications not included in our cost estimates or covered by our contract for which we cannot obtain adequate compensation, including concealed or unknown environmental, geological or geographical conditions; failure to accurately estimate project costs or accurately establish the scope of our services covered by the project contract; unanticipated technical problems, including design or engineering issues; inability to achieve guaranteed performance or quality standards with regard to engineering, construction or project management obligations; failure to properly make judgments in accordance with applicable professional standards, including engineering standards; changes in the cost of equipment, commodities, materials or labor; unanticipated costs or claims due to delays or failure to perform by customers, partners, subcontractors, suppliers or other third parties; contract termination or suspension and our inability to obtain reimbursement; delays or productivity issues caused by weather conditions or severe weather events; delays and additional costs associated with obtaining required permits or approvals; changes in laws or regulations; delays and additional costs attributable to legal challenges and protests and other political activity; and quality issues, including those requiring rework or replacement. 12 additionally, we may be required to pay liquidated damages under certain of our contracts if we fail to meet schedule or performance requirements. these factors and events may result in reputational harm or cause actual revenues and gross profits for a project to differ from what we originally estimated, resulting in reduced profitability or losses on projects. such differences could be material and could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. changes in estimates related to revenues and costs associated with our contracts with customers could result in a reduction or an elimination of previously reported revenues and reduction of profits or the recognition of losses. for fixed price contracts and certain unit-based contracts, we recognize revenue as performance obligations are satisfied over time and earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability, as discussed in further detail in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data . changes in contract estimates are recognized on a cumulative catch-up basis in the period in which the revisions to the estimates are made, and such changes can result in the recognition of revenue and profit in a current period for performance obligations satisfied in prior periods or the reversal of previously recognized revenue and the recognition of a loss. the impacts of a change in estimate are measured as the differences between the revenue and gross profit recognized in the prior period and the revenue and gross profit which would have been recognized had the revised estimate been used as the basis of recognition in the prior period. contract losses are recognized in full when losses are determined to be probable and can be reasonably estimated. variable consideration amounts, including performance incentives, early pay discounts and penalties, may also cause changes in contract estimates. contract consideration is adjusted for variable consideration when it is probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur once the uncertainty related to the variable consideration is resolved. the timing for recognition of these variable consideration amounts is uncertain, and therefore could have a significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, we recognize amounts associated with change orders and/or claims as revenue when it is probable that the contract price will be adjusted and the amount of any such adjustment can be reasonably estimated. as a result, costs incurred related to change orders and/or claims may be recognized in periods prior to the recognition of the related revenue. actual collection of claims could differ from estimated amounts and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized revenues and earnings. in certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be significant and could result in a reduction or an elimination of previously reported revenues and a reduction in profits or recognition of losses on the associated contract. our revenues and profitability may be exposed to potential risk if a contract is terminated or canceled, our customers encounter financial difficulties or file bankruptcy or disputes arise with our customers. our contracts often require us to satisfy or achieve certain milestones in order to receive payment for the work performed, or in the case of cost-reimbursable contracts, provide support for billings in advance of receiving payment. as a result, we may incur significant costs or perform significant amounts of work prior to receipt of payment. if any of our customers do not proceed with the completion of projects, terminate or cancel a contract with us or default on their payment obligations, or if disputes arise with our customers with respect to the adequacy of billing support, we may face difficulties in collecting payment of amounts due to us for costs previously incurred. we have in the past brought, and may in the future bring, claims against our customers related to the payment terms of our contracts. a failure to promptly recover on these types of claims could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, any such claims may harm our future relationships with our customers. slowing economic conditions in the industries we serve, economic downturns or bankruptcies could also impair the financial condition of one or more of our customers and hinder their ability to pay us on a timely basis. further, to the extent a customer files bankruptcy, certain payments made to us prior to the filing of the bankruptcy petition may be avoided and returned to the customer's bankruptcy estate. for example, on january 29, 2019, pg&amp;e corporation and pacific gas and electric company (collectively pg&amp;e), filed for bankruptcy protection under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code, as amended, which could negatively impact, and is expected to delay, the collection of receivables owed to quanta as of the filing date. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations concentrations of credit risk for additional information. additionally, many of our customers for larger projects are project-specific entities that do not have significant assets other than their interests in the project and may be more likely to encounter financial difficulties relating to their businesses. it may be difficult to collect amounts owed to us by customers experiencing financial difficulties or in bankruptcy, and accounts receivable from such customers may become uncollectible and ultimately have to be written off, which could have an adverse effect on our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 13 our operating results could be negatively affected by weather conditions and the nature of our work environment. we perform substantially all of our services outdoors. extraordinary or force majeure events, such as natural or man-made disasters, or other factors beyond our control could negatively impact our and our customers' ability to operate or increase our costs to operate. as an example, adverse weather conditions or events, such as extreme heat or cold, rainfall, snowfall, wind, an early thaw in canada and the northern parts of the u.s., and hurricanes or other storms, may affect our productivity or may temporarily prevent us from performing services. the effect of weather delays on projects that are under fixed price arrangements may be greater if we are unable to adjust the project schedule for such delays, as the additional costs incurred as a result of the delays may not be reimbursed by our customers. furthermore, our work is performed under a variety of conditions, including but not limited to, difficult terrain and difficult site conditions where delivery of materials and availability of labor are impacted or where there is exposure to harsh and hazardous conditions. a reduction in our productivity and efficiency in any given period or our inability to meet guaranteed schedules may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our business is subject to operational hazards, and we may not be insured against all potential liabilities. our business is subject to significant operational hazards due to the nature of services we provide and the conditions in which we operate. these hazards include electricity, fires, explosions, leaks, collisions, mechanical failures, offshore operation risks, and damage from severe weather conditions. furthermore, certain of our customers operate energy-related infrastructure assets in locations and environments that increase the likelihood and/or severity of these operational hazards. in particular, we perform a significant amount of services for customers that operate electrical power and natural gas infrastructure assets in california and other locations that have recently experienced, and have a higher risk of, wildfires, some of which have exposed operators to significant additional costs and expenses and potentially significant additional liabilities. we also often operate in densely populated urban areas, which could increase the impact of any of these hazards or other accidents we experience. as a result of these and other hazards, our operations could expose us to or result in liabilities, and because our services in certain instances may be integral to the operation and performance of our customers' infrastructure, such liabilities could arise even if our operations are not the cause of the harm. these liabilities could include, among other things, claims associated with personal injury, including severe injury or loss of life, and significant damage to property, equipment and the environment, and could lead to suspension of operations and/or material legal costs and liabilities. insurance coverage may not be available to us or may be insufficient to cover the cost of these liabilities. if we are not fully insured or indemnified against such liabilities or a counterparty fails to meet its indemnification obligations to us, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. further, any such liabilities or accidents could adversely affect our reputation or safety record, which could impact demand for our services or our ability to bid for certain work. during the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to lawsuits or indemnity claims, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. we have in the past been, and may in the future be, named as a defendant in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business. these actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury (including claims for loss of life), workers' compensation, employment discrimination, sexual harassment, workplace misconduct and other employment-related damages, compensation for breach of contract or property damage, environmental liabilities, multiemployer pension plan withdrawal liabilities, punitive damages, consequential damages, and civil penalties or other losses or injunctive or declaratory relief. in addition, we generally indemnify our customers for claims related to the services we provide and actions we take under our contracts, and, in some instances, we may be allocated risk through our contract terms for actions by our customers, subcontractors or other third parties. because our services in certain instances may be integral to the operation and performance of our customers' infrastructure, we have been and may become subject to lawsuits or claims for any failure of the systems that we work on, even if our services are not the cause of such failures, and we could be subject to civil and criminal liabilities, which could be material. insurance coverage may not be available or may be insufficient for these lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings. the outcome of any allegations, lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings, as well as any public reaction thereto, could result in significant costs and diversion of management's attention from our business. payments of significant amounts, even if reserved, could materially and adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for details on our existing litigation, claims and other legal proceedings, refer to note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. unavailability or cancellation of third-party insurance coverage would increase our overall risk exposure, as well as disrupt our operations, and estimates of losses covered by our insurance policies could prove incorrect. we maintain insurance coverage from third-party insurers as part of our overall risk management strategy and because some of our contracts require us to maintain specific insurance coverage limits. we are insured for employer's liability, workers' compensation, auto liability and general liability claims, but such insurance is subject to deductibles and limits and may be canceled or may not cover all of our losses. we manage and maintain a portion of our casualty risk through our wholly-owned captive 14 insurance company, which insures all claims up to the amount of the applicable deductible of our third-party insurance programs. in connection with our casualty insurance programs, we are required to issue letters of credit to secure our obligations. we also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements. for additional information on our current deductibles, see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contractual obligations insurance . our insurance policies include various coverage requirements, including the requirement to give appropriate notice. if we fail to comply with these requirements, our coverage could be denied. additionally, there can be no assurance that our insurance coverages will be sufficient or effective under all circumstances or against all claims and liabilities asserted against us. we also renew our insurance policies on an annual basis, and therefore deductibles and levels of coverage offered by third parties may change in future periods. there can be no assurance that any of our existing third party insurance coverage will be renewed upon the expiration of the coverage period or that future coverage will be affordable at the required limits. in addition, our third-party insurers could fail, suddenly cancel our coverage or otherwise be unable to provide us with adequate insurance coverage. for example, should our insurers determine to exclude coverage for wildfires in the future, due to the increased risk of such events in certain geographies or otherwise, we could be exposed to significant liabilities and a potential disruption of our operations. if our risk exposure increases as a result of adverse changes in our insurance coverage, we could be subject to increased claims and liabilities that could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. losses under all of our insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimate of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. these insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the number of incidents not reported. the accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals are adequate. if we were to experience insurance claims or costs significantly above our estimates, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. we may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to: expand the range of services we offer to customers to address their evolving infrastructure needs; attract new customers; increase the number of projects performed for existing customers; hire and retain qualified employees; expand geographically, including internationally; and address the challenges presented by stringent regulatory, environmental and permitting requirements and difficult economic or market conditions that may affect us or our customers. in addition, our customers may cancel, delay or reduce the number or size of projects available to us for a variety of reasons, including capital constraints or inability to meet regulatory requirements. many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth are beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies for achieving internal growth will be successful. inability to successfully generate internal growth may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our business is highly competitive, and competitive pressures could affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the specialty contracting business is served by numerous small, owner-operated private companies, some public companies and several large regional companies. relatively few barriers prevent entry into some areas of our business, and as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become one of our competitors. in addition, some of our competitors have significant financial, technical and marketing resources. we cannot be certain that our competitors do not have or will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services. similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position within the specialty contracting business or maintain our current customer base. certain of our competitors may have lower overhead cost structures, and therefore may be able to provide the required services at lower rates than us. we also face 15 competition from in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers. service providers in the industries we serve are capable of performing, or acquiring businesses that perform, some of the same types of services we provide, and we cannot be certain that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource these services in the future. furthermore, a substantial portion of our revenues is directly or indirectly dependent upon obtaining new contracts. the timing of project awards is unpredictable and often involves complex and lengthy negotiations and bidding processes. these processes could be impacted by a wide variety of factors, including price, governmental approvals, financing contingencies, commodity prices, environmental conditions and overall market and economic conditions. the competitive environment we operate in could also affect the timing of contract awards and the commencement or progress of work under awarded contracts. for example, based on rapidly changing competition dynamics, we have experienced, and may in the future experience, more competitive pricing in certain markets, such as the smaller scale transmission and distribution electric power market. our bids also may not be successful due to, among other things, a potential customer's perception of our ability to perform the work or the technological advantages held by our competitors. additionally, changing competitive pressures could present difficulties in matching workforce size with available contract awards. as a result, the competitive environment we operate in could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and could cause our results of operations and cash flows to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. technological advancements that compete with our customers' businesses or alter the services our customers require may also result in reduced demand for our services. for example, changes in technology, particularly with respect to efficient battery storage or the emergence of new, developing or alternative sources of power generation, may result in less demand for existing sources of power generation and for natural gas and oil, which could result in less demand for the services we provide. many of our contracts may be canceled or suspended on short notice or may not be renewed upon completion or expiration, and we may be unsuccessful in replacing our contracts in such events, which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we could experience a decrease in our revenues, net income and liquidity if any of the following occur: our customers cancel or suspend a significant number of contracts or contracts having significant value; we fail to renew a significant number of our existing contracts; we complete a significant number of non-recurring projects and cannot replace them with similar projects; or we fail to reduce operating and overhead expenses consistent with any decrease in our revenues. many of our customers may cancel or suspend our contracts on short notice, typically 30 to 90 days, even if we are not in default under the contract. certain of our customers assign work to us on a project-by-project basis under master service agreements. under these agreements, our customers generally have no obligation to assign a specific amount of work to us. our operations could decline significantly if the anticipated volume of work is not assigned to us, which will be more likely if customer spending decreases due to, for example, unfavorable economic conditions. many of our contracts, including our master service agreements, are opened to public bid at the expiration of their terms. there can be no assurance that we will be the successful bidder on our existing contracts that are subject to re-bid in the future. the nature of our business exposes us to potential liability for warranty, engineering and other claims, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. under our contracts with customers, we typically provide warranties for the services and materials we provide, guaranteeing the work performed against, among other things, defects in workmanship, and may agree to indemnify our customers for losses related to our services. the length of the warranty periods we agree to vary and may extend for several years. as much of the work we perform is inspected by our customers for any defects in construction prior to acceptance of the project, the warranty claims that we have historically received have not been substantial. additionally, materials used in construction are often provided by the customer or are warranted against defects by the supplier. however, certain projects may have longer warranty periods and include facility performance warranties that may be broader than the warranties we generally provide. in these circumstances, if warranty claims occur, we are generally required to re-perform the services and/or repair or replace the warranted item and any other facilities impacted thereby, at our sole expense, and we could also be responsible for other damages if we are not able to adequately satisfy our warranty obligations. in addition, we may be required under contractual arrangements with our customers to warrant any defects or failures in materials we provide. while we generally require the materials suppliers to provide us warranties that are consistent with those we provide to our customers, if any of these suppliers default on their warranty obligations to us, we may incur costs to repair or replace the defective materials. costs incurred as a result of warranty claims could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 16 furthermore, our business involves professional judgments regarding the planning, design, development, construction, operations and management of electric power transmission, communications and pipeline infrastructure. because our projects are often technically complex, our failure to make judgments and recommendations in accordance with applicable professional standards, including engineering standards, could result in damages. a significantly adverse or catastrophic event at a project site or completed project resulting from the services we performed could result in significant professional or product liability, personal injury (including claims for loss of life) or property damage claims or other claims against us, as well as reputational harm. these liabilities could exceed our insurance limits or could impact our ability to obtain third-party insurance in the future. in addition, customers, subcontractors or suppliers who have agreed to indemnify us against any such liabilities or losses might refuse or be unable to pay us. an uninsured claim, either in part or in whole, if successful and of a material magnitude, could have a substantial impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our failure to adequately protect critical data, sensitive information and technology systems could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or result in harm to our reputation. we rely on computer, information, and communications technology and systems to manage our operations and other business processes and to protect sensitive company information. we also collect and retain information about our customers, stockholders, vendors and employees, all of which expect that we will adequately protect such information. breaches of our data security systems, which could result from cyber-attacks, the accidental release of sensitive information by an employee, or acts of terrorism against us, our customers and/or our vendors, could cause service disruption or, in extreme circumstances, infiltration into, damage to or loss of control of our customers' energy infrastructure systems. strategic targets, such as the energy-related assets on which we may work, may be at greater risk of cyber-attacks or acts of terrorism than other targets. any such breach could subject us to significant liabilities, cause damage to our reputation or customer relationships, or result in regulatory investigations or other actions by governmental authorities. additionally, cyber-attacks and other disruptions to our data security systems and processes may occur and could result from, for example, theft, storms or other natural phenomena, information technology solution failures, network disruptions, and phishing and similar cyber-frauds. these could result in compromises of our payment systems, monetary losses, delays in the processing of transactions or the reporting of financial results, the unintentional disclosure or misappropriation of confidential or proprietary company information (including for the purpose of transacting in our stock), or the inadvertent release of customer, stockholder, vendor or employee data. network security and internal control measures have been implemented to address such attacks and disruptions. however, there can be no assurance that such attacks or disruptions will not occur, and any such attack or disruption could go unnoticed for some period of time. furthermore, the continuing and evolving threat of cyber-attacks has resulted in increased legislative and regulatory focus on these issues. for example, new legislation and regulatory requirements, as well as contractual commitments, may affect how we must store, use, transfer and process the confidential information of our employees, customers, vendors and stockholders. to the extent we face new or changing legislative, regulatory or contractual requirements concerning cyber-security or data privacy and protection, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to meet such requirements. changes in government spending and legislative actions and initiatives relating to renewable energy and electric power may adversely affect demand for our services. demand for our services may not result from renewable energy initiatives. while many states currently have mandates in place that require specified percentages of power to be generated from renewable sources, those mandates could be reduced or made optional, thereby reducing, delaying or eliminating renewable energy development. additionally, renewable energy is generally more expensive to produce than energy from traditional sources and may require additional power generation sources as backup. the locations of renewable energy projects are often remote and are not viable unless new or expanded transmission infrastructure to transport the power to demand centers is economically feasible. furthermore, funding for renewable energy initiatives is uncertain and in the past has been constrained by the availability of credit. these factors could result in fewer renewable energy projects than anticipated and a delay in the construction of these projects and related infrastructure, which could negatively impact our business. other current and potential legislative or regulatory initiatives may not result in increased demand for our services. examples include legislation or regulations that require utilities to meet reliability standards, ease siting and right-of-way issues for the construction of transmission lines, and encourage installation of new electric power transmission and renewable energy generation facilities. it is not certain whether existing legislation will create sufficient incentives for new projects, when or if proposed legislative initiatives will be enacted or whether any potentially beneficial provisions will be included in the final legislation. there are also a number of legislative and regulatory proposals and global, non-binding agreements that address greenhouse gas emissions, which are in various phases of discussion or implementation. the outcome of these pending federal and state proposals and possible future proposals could negatively affect the operations of our customers through costs of compliance or restraints on projects, which could reduce their demand for our services. 17 remaining performance obligations and backlog may not be realized or may not result in profits. our remaining performance obligations and backlog are difficult to determine with certainty. customers often have no obligation under our contracts to assign or release work to us, and many contracts may be terminated on short notice. reductions in remaining performance obligations and backlog due to cancellation or reduction in scope of one or more contracts or projects by a customer or for other reasons could significantly reduce the revenues and profit we actually receive from contracts. in the event of a project cancellation or reduction in scope, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but would not have a contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our remaining performance obligations and backlog. the remaining performance obligations and backlog we obtain in connection with companies we acquire may not be as large as we believed and may not result in the revenues or profits we expected at the time of acquisition. in addition, projects that are delayed may remain in remaining performance obligations and backlog for extended periods of time. all of these uncertainties are heightened by negative economic conditions and their impact on our customers' spending, as well as the effects of regulatory requirements and weather conditions. consequently, our estimates of remaining performance obligations and backlog may not be accurate, and we may not be able to realize our estimated remaining performance obligations and backlog. furthermore, backlog is not a term recognized under gaap, and our methodology for determining backlog may not be comparable to the methodologies used by other companies. for a discussion of how we calculate backlog for our business, please see backlog in item 1. business . our financial results are based upon estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. in preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with gaap, several estimates and assumptions are used by management to report the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses recognized during the periods presented and to determine the contingent assets and liabilities known to exist as of the date of the financial statements. these estimates and assumptions are necessary because certain information used in the preparation of our financial statements is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from available data or cannot be readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. in some cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine, and we must exercise significant judgment. estimates are used primarily in our assessment of the allowance for doubtful accounts, valuation of inventory, useful lives of assets, fair value assumptions in analyzing goodwill, other intangibles and long-lived asset impairments, equity and other investments, loan receivables, purchase price allocations, acquisition-related contingent consideration liabilities, liabilities for insurance and other claims and guarantees, multiemployer pension plan withdrawal liabilities, revenue recognition for construction contracts inclusive of contractual change orders and claims, share-based compensation, operating results of reportable segments, provision (benefit) for income taxes and the calculation of uncertain tax positions. actual results for all estimates could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our inability to successfully execute our acquisition strategy may have an adverse impact on our growth strategy. our business strategy includes expanding our presence in the industries we serve through strategic acquisitions of companies that complement or enhance our business. the number of acquisition targets that meet our criteria may be limited. we may also face competition for acquisition opportunities, and other potential acquirers may offer more favorable terms or have greater financial resources available for potential acquisitions. this competition may further limit our acquisition opportunities and our ability to grow through acquisitions or could raise the prices of acquisitions and make them less accretive, or possibly not accretive, to us. failure to consummate future acquisitions could negatively affect our growth strategies. additionally, the acquisitions we complete may involve significant cash expenditures, the incurrence or assumption of debt or burdensome regulatory requirements, and any acquisition may ultimately have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be unsuccessful at integrating businesses that either we have acquired or that we may acquire in the future, which may reduce the anticipated benefit from acquired businesses. as a part of our business strategy, we have acquired, and may seek to acquire in the future, companies that complement or enhance our business. the success of this strategy will depend on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquired businesses, such as the expansion of our existing operations, elimination of redundant costs and capitalizing on cross-selling opportunities. to realize these benefits, however, we must successfully integrate the operations of the acquired businesses with our existing operations. integrating our acquired businesses involves a number of special risks, including: failure of an acquired business to achieve the results we expect; diversion of our management's attention from operational and other matters; 18 difficulties integrating the operations and personnel of an acquired business; additional financial reporting and accounting challenges associated with integrating an acquired business; inability to retain key personnel of an acquired business; risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities associated with the operations of an acquired business; loss of business due to customer overlap or other factors; risks and liabilities arising from the prior operations of an acquired business, such as performance, operational, safety, workforce or other compliance or tax issues, some of which we may not have discovered during our due diligence and may not be covered by indemnification obligations; and potential disruptions of our business. we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully complete the integration process without substantial costs, delays, disruptions or other operational or financial problems. if we do not implement proper overall business controls, our decentralized operating strategy could result in inconsistent operating and financial practices at the companies we acquire. additionally, failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our investments expose us to risks and may result in conflicts of interest that could adversely impact our business or result in reputational harm. we have entered into strategic relationships and investment arrangements with various partners, including customers and infrastructure investors, through which we have invested and intend to invest in infrastructure assets. we expect this activity to continue in the future, both through direct investments by us and investments through the partnership structure we formed with select infrastructure investors. for additional information on our recent investments, see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations recent acquisitions, investments and divestitures . these types of investments may expose us to increased risks, including poor performance by the infrastructure projects in which we have invested due to, among other things, difficult market or economic conditions or slowdowns (which may occur across one or more industries, sectors or geographies) or changes to the supply or demand and fluctuations in the price of commodities. that negative performance could result in lower investment returns for us and our customers and infrastructure investors, as well as a decline in value or total loss of our investments and the possible sale of our investments at values below our initial projections, including at a loss, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, poor performance by our investments, in particular investments through our capital partnership structure, could result in reputational harm to quanta that impairs our ability to raise or participate in raising new funds for future investment opportunities, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to secure certain future projects. further, our relationship with a customer that partners with us in a poorly performing investment could become impaired, which may negatively impact our ability to continue providing services to that customer. conflicts of interest may also exist or arise for us in relation to our investment partners as a result of our capital partnership structure or the structure of our other investment arrangements. for example, in these structures, quanta may be the contractor for a project as well as an equity investor and the manager of investments in that project. in those instances, conflicts of interest may exist for such things as contractor pricing and the handling of contractor change orders and other claims. while we have taken certain actions that we believe minimize or address these and other anticipated conflicts of interest, including through internal management practices and the terms of our agreements with investment partners, our failure to properly manage such conflicts of interest could expose us to liability or harm our relationships with investment partners, which could impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or cause reputational harm to quanta. our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of asset impairments. our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by impairments to goodwill, other intangible assets, receivables, long-lived assets or investments. for example, when we acquire a business, we record goodwill in an amount equal to the amount we paid for the business minus the fair value of the net tangible assets and other intangible assets of the acquired business. goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives cannot be amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairment. for additional description on this impairment testing, please read item 7. management's 19 discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies . we have recorded impairments in the past, and any future impairments, including impairments of goodwill, intangible assets, long-lived assets or investments, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations for the period in which the impairment is recognized. for example, during the fourth quarter of 2018, we recorded a $49.4 million asset impairment charge related to the winding down of certain oil-influenced operations and assets. in addition, we enter into various types of investment arrangements in the normal course of business, each having unique terms and conditions. these investments may include equity interests we hold in business entities, including general or limited partnerships, contractual joint ventures or other forms of equity or profit participation. these investments may also include our participation in different finance structures such as the extension of loans to project specific entities, the acquisition of convertible notes issued by project specific entities or other strategic financing arrangements. our equity method investments are carried at original cost and are included in other assets, net in our consolidated balance sheet and are adjusted for our proportionate share of the investees' net income (loss) and distributions. equity investments are reviewed for impairment by assessing whether there has been a decline in the fair value of the investment below the carrying amount and whether that decline is considered to be other than temporary. in making this determination, factors such as the ability to recover the carrying amount of the investment and the inability of the investee to sustain future earnings capacity are evaluated in determining whether an impairment has occurred and should be recognized. we extend credit to customers for purchases of our services and may enter into longer-term deferred payment arrangements or provide other financing or investment arrangements with certain of our customers, which subjects us to potential credit or investment risk that could, if realized, adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we grant credit, generally without collateral, to our customers, which include electric power utilities, energy companies, communications providers, governmental entities, general contractors, and builders, owners and managers of renewable energy facilities and commercial and industrial properties located primarily in the united states, canada, australia and latin america. we may also agree to allow our customers to defer payment on projects until certain milestones have been met or until the projects are substantially completed, and customers typically withhold some portion of amounts due to us as retainage. in addition, we may provide other forms of financing to our customers or make investments in our customers' projects, typically in situations where we also provide services in connection with the projects. our payment arrangements subject us to potential credit risk related to changes in business and economic factors affecting our customers, including material changes in our customers' revenues or cash flows. these changes may also reduce the value of any financing or equity investment arrangements we have with our customers. many of our customers have been negatively impacted by uncertain economic conditions in recent years, and certain customers have experienced financial difficulties (including bankruptcy), which could impact our ability to collect amounts owed to us, delay the collection of receivables from them or impair the value of our investments in them. further, to the extent a customer files bankruptcy, certain payments made to us prior to the filing of the bankruptcy petition may be avoided and returned to the customer's bankruptcy estate. if we are unable to collect amounts owed to us, or retain amounts paid to us, our cash flows would be reduced, and we could experience losses if those amounts exceed current allowances. we would also recognize losses with respect to any investments that are impaired as a result of our customers' financial difficulties or bankruptcies. the risk of loss may increase for projects where we provide services and make a financing or equity investment. losses experienced could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the loss of key personnel could disrupt our business. we depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and senior management, including the management at each of our operating units. although we typically enter into employment agreements with our executive officers and other key employees for initial terms of one to three years and subsequent one-year renewal options, we cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time. the loss of key management personnel, as well as our inability to attract, develop and retain qualified employees that can succeed key personnel, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business. our business growth could outpace the capability of our decentralized management infrastructure. we cannot be certain that our management infrastructure will be adequate to support our operations as they expand. for example, the ability to internally communicate, coordinate and execute business strategies, plans and tactics may be negatively impacted by our increasing size and complexity. a decentralized structure places significant control and decision-making powers in the hands of our operating unit management. this contributes to the risk that we may be slower or less able to identify or react to problems affecting key business matters than we would in a more centralized environment. the lack of timely access to information may impact the quality of decision making by management. our decentralized organization creates the possibility that our operating subsidiaries assume excessive risk without appropriate guidance from our centralized legal, accounting, tax, 20 treasury and insurance functions as to the potential overall impact. future growth could also impose significant additional responsibilities on members of our senior management, including the need to recruit and integrate new senior level managers and executives. we cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain such additional managers and executives. to the extent that we are unable to manage our growth effectively, or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified management, we may not be able to expand our operations or execute our business plan. we may be required to contribute cash to meet our underfunded obligations in certain multiemployer pension plans. our collective bargaining agreements generally require us to participate with other companies in multiemployer pension plans. to the extent those plans are underfunded, the employee retirement income security act of 1974, as amended by the multiemployer pension plan amendments act of 1980, may subject us to substantial liabilities under those plans if we withdraw from them or they are terminated or experience a mass withdrawal. for example, we have been involved in several litigation matters associated with our withdrawal from the central states, southeast and southwest areas pension plan, certain of which were settled in 2017. in addition, the pension protection act of 2006 added special funding and operational rules generally applicable to plan years beginning after 2007 for multiemployer plans that are classified as endangered, seriously endangered or critical status based on multiple factors (including, for example, the plan's funded percentage, cash flow position and whether it is projected to experience a minimum funding deficiency). plans in these classifications must adopt measures to improve their funded status through a funding improvement or rehabilitation plan, as applicable, which may require additional contributions from employers (which may take the form of a surcharge on benefit contributions) and/or modifications to retiree benefits. certain plans to which we contribute or may contribute in the future are in endangered, seriously endangered or critical status. the amount of additional funds, if any, that we may be obligated to contribute to these plans in the future cannot be estimated due to uncertainty of the future levels of work that require the specific use of union employees covered by these plans, as well as the future contribution levels and possible surcharges on contributions applicable to these plans. our unionized workforce and related obligations could adversely affect our operations. as of december 31, 2018 , approximately 38% of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. although the majority of the collective bargaining agreements prohibit strikes and work stoppages, certain of our unionized employees have participated in strikes and work stoppages in the past, and we cannot be certain that strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the future. strikes or work stoppages could adversely impact relationships with our customers and could cause us to lose business and experience a decline in revenues. our ability to complete future acquisitions also could be adversely affected because of our union status for a variety of reasons. for instance, our union agreements may be incompatible with the union agreements of a business we want to acquire, and some businesses may not want to become affiliated with a union-based company. additionally, we may increase our exposure to withdrawal liabilities for underfunded multiemployer pension plans to which an acquired company historically contributed or presently contributes. approximately 62% of our employees are not unionized. certain of our customers require or prefer a non-union workforce, and they may reduce the amount of work assigned to us if our non-union labor crews become unionized, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial or reputational impacts relating to occupational health and safety matters. our operations are inherently dangerous and subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace. while we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources in our occupational health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operational risk, and there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant liability exposure. although we have taken what we believe are appropriate precautions, we have suffered fatalities in the past and may suffer additional fatalities in the future. serious accidents, including fatalities, may subject us to substantial penalties, civil litigation or criminal prosecution. claims for damages to persons, including claims for bodily injury or loss of life, could result in substantial costs and liabilities. in addition, if our safety record were to substantially deteriorate over time or we were to suffer substantial penalties or criminal prosecution for violation of health and safety regulations, our customers could cancel our contracts and elect to procure future services from other providers. unsafe work sites also have the potential to increase employee turnover, increase the costs of projects for our clients, and raise our operating costs. any of the foregoing could result in financial loss, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 21 risks associated with operating in international markets could restrict our ability to expand globally and harm our business and prospects. our overall business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted by our activities and operations outside the united states. although our international operations are presently conducted primarily in canada, australia and latin america, we also perform work in other foreign countries. it is possible the number of countries in which we operate and the amount of work we perform in foreign countries could increase over the next few years. changes in economic conditions, including those resulting from wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts, or volatility in global markets, may adversely affect demand for our services and our customers' ability to pay for our services. in addition, at times we are paid for work outside the united states in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. such payments may exceed our local currency needs, and, in certain instances, those amounts may be subject to temporary blocking or taxes or tariffs, and we may experience difficulties if we attempt to convert such amounts to u.s. dollars. there are also numerous other risks inherent in conducting business internationally and with respect to international markets, including, but not limited to, changes in applicable regulatory requirements, foreign currency exchange fluctuations, instability of political, economic and social conditions in foreign countries, expropriation or nationalization of our assets, unfamiliar foreign legal systems and cultural practices, and complex u.s. and foreign tax regulations and other laws and international treaties. additionally, uncertain or changing economic and political conditions may make it difficult for our clients, our vendors, and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. for example, recent changes to u.s. policies related to global trade and tariffs, as well as retaliatory trade measures implemented by other countries, have resulted in uncertainty surrounding the future of the global economy. increases in the cost of steel, aluminum or other materials as a result of tariffs or trade policies may impact customer spending. we cannot predict the outcome of these changing trade policies or other unanticipated political conditions, nor can we predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic recovery or downturn worldwide or in our customers' markets. these risks could restrict our ability to provide services to international customers, operate our international business profitably or fund our strategic objectives, which could negatively impact our overall business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we could be adversely affected by our failure to comply with the laws applicable to our foreign activities, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and other similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. applicable u.s. and non-u.s. anti-corruption laws, including but not limited to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa), prohibit us from, among other things, corruptly making payments to non-u.s. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. we pursue opportunities in certain parts of the world that experience government corruption, and in certain circumstances, compliance with these laws may conflict with longstanding local customs and practices. our policies mandate compliance with all applicable anti-corruption laws. we have policies and procedures designed to ensure that our employees and intermediaries who work for us outside the united states comply with these laws, and we otherwise require such employees and intermediaries to comply with these laws. however, there can be no assurance that such policies, procedures and other requirements will protect us from liability under the fcpa or other similar laws for actions or inadvertences taken by our employees or intermediaries. liability for such actions or inadvertences could result in severe criminal or civil fines, penalties, forfeitures, disgorgements or other sanctions. this in turn could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. in addition, detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged violations of such laws is expensive and could consume significant time and attention of our senior management, in-country management, and other personnel. fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates may have a greater impact on our financial results as we expand into international markets. for the year ended december 31, 2018 , we derived $2.60 billion , or 23.2% , of our consolidated revenues from foreign operations, the substantial majority of which was earned in canada, australia and latin america. the functional currencies for our foreign operations are typically the currency of the country in which the foreign operating unit is located. accordingly, our financial performance is subject to fluctuation due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. as the u.s. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, our translation of foreign currency denominated revenues or expenses will result in lower u.s. dollar denominated revenues and expenses. conversely, if the u.s. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated revenues or expenses will result in increased u.s. dollar denominated revenues and expenses. for example, during the year ended december 31, 2018 , foreign revenues decrease d by approximately $18 million in comparison with the year ended december 31, 2017 as a result of less favorable foreign currency exchange rates due primarily to the u.s. dollar strengthen ing against the canadian and australian dollars. also, during the year ended december 31, 2017 , foreign revenues increase d by approximately $53 million in comparison with the year ended december 31, 2016 as a result of more favorable foreign currency exchange rates due primarily to the u.s. dollar weaken ing against the canadian and australian dollars. 22 we intend to expand the volume of services that we provide internationally. as a result, our reported financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be further exposed to the effects that fluctuating exchange rates have on the process of translating the financial statements of our international operations and the remeasurement of transactions which are not denominated in the reporting units' functional currencies. compliance with and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our performance. we are subject to extensive tax liabilities imposed by multiple jurisdictions, including income taxes, indirect taxes (excise/duty, sales/use, gross receipts, and value-added taxes), payroll taxes, franchise taxes, withholding taxes, and ad valorem taxes. new tax laws, treaties and regulations and changes in existing tax laws, treaties and regulations are continuously being enacted or proposed and could result in significant changes to the tax rate on our earnings, which could have a material impact on our earnings and cash flows from operations. for example, the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the tax act), enacted in december 2017, made numerous changes to u.s. federal corporate tax laws that are anticipated to impact our effective tax rate in future periods. in addition, significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities, and our tax estimates and tax positions could be materially affected by many factors, including the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation, the introduction of new tax accounting standards, legislation, regulations and related interpretations, our global mix of earnings, our ability to realize deferred tax assets and changes in uncertain tax positions. a significant increase in our tax rate could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and liquidity. our participation in joint ventures exposes us to liability and/or harm to our reputation for failures of our partners. as part of our business, we have entered into joint venture arrangements and likely will continue to do so. the purpose of these joint ventures is typically to combine skills and resources to allow for the bidding and performance of particular projects. success on these jointly performed projects can be adversely affected by the performance of our joint venture partners, over whom we may have little or no control. differences in opinions or views between us and our joint venture partners could result in delayed decision-making or failure to agree on material issues that could adversely affect the business and operations of our joint ventures. additionally, the failure by a joint venture partner to comply with applicable laws, regulations or client requirements could negatively impact our business. we and our joint venture partners are generally jointly and severally liable for all liabilities and obligations of our joint ventures. if a joint venture partner fails to perform or is financially unable to bear its portion of required capital contributions or other obligations, including liabilities stemming from claims or lawsuits, we could be required to make additional investments, provide additional services or pay more than our proportionate share of a liability to make up for our partner's shortfall. further, if our partners experience cost overruns or project performance issues that we are unable to adequately address, the customer may terminate the project, which could result in legal liability to us, harm our reputation and reduce our profit or increase our loss on a project. any deterioration in the quality or reputation of our brand could have an adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. our brand and our reputation are among our most important assets. the success of our business and our ability to attract and retain customers depends on brand recognition and reputation. such dependence makes our business susceptible to reputational damage and to competition from other companies. changes in management practices, or acts or omissions that adversely affect our business, including any crime, scandal, litigation, negative publicity, catastrophic fires or similar events or accidents and injuries can have a substantial negative impact on the operations of our business, and can cause a loss of consumer confidence. the considerable expansion in the use of social media over recent years has compounded the potential scope of the negative publicity that could be generated by such incidents. we could also face legal claims and adverse publicity from a variety of events or conditions, many of which are beyond our control. if the reputation or perceived quality of our brand declines, our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. we are in the process of implementing information technology (it) solutions, which could temporarily disrupt day-to-day operations at certain operating units. we continue to implement comprehensive it solutions that we believe will allow for the interface between functions such as accounting and finance, human resources, operations, and fleet management. continued development and implementation of the it solutions will require substantial financial and personnel resources. while the it solutions are intended to improve and enhance our information systems, implementation of new information systems at each operating unit exposes us to the risks of start-up of the new system and integration of that system with our existing systems and processes, including possible disruption of our financial reporting. there is no guarantee that we will realize economic or other intended benefits from continued development 23 and implementation of the it solutions. additionally, the it solutions may not be developed or implemented as timely or as accurately as planned. failure to properly implement the it solutions could result in substantial disruptions to our business, including coordinating and processing our normal business activities, testing and recording of certain data necessary to provide oversight over our disclosure controls and procedures and effective internal controls over our financial reporting, and other unforeseen problems. our dependence on suppliers, subcontractors and equipment manufacturers could expose us to risk of loss in our operations. on certain projects, we rely on suppliers to obtain the necessary materials and subcontractors to perform portions of our services. we also rely on equipment manufacturers to provide us with the equipment required to conduct our operations. limitations on the availability of suppliers, subcontractors or equipment manufacturers could negatively impact our operations, particularly in the event we rely on a single or small number of providers. the risk of a lack of available suppliers, subcontractors or equipment manufacturers may be heightened as a result of market and economic conditions. to the extent we cannot engage subcontractors or acquire equipment or materials, our operations could be negatively impacted. additionally, successful completion of our contracts may depend on whether our subcontractors successfully fulfill their contractual obligations. if our subcontractors fail to perform their contractual obligations as a result of financial or other difficulties, or if our subcontractors fail to meet the expected completion dates or quality standards or fail to comply with applicable laws, we may be required to incur additional costs or provide additional services in order to make up such shortfall. an increase in the prices of certain materials used in our business could adversely affect our business. for certain contracts, including where we have assumed responsibility for procuring materials for a project, we are exposed to market risk of increases in certain commodity prices of materials, such as copper and steel, which are used as components of supplies or materials utilized in all of our operations. in addition, our customers' capital budgets may be impacted by the prices of certain materials. these prices could be materially impacted by general market conditions and other factors, including u.s. trade relationships with other countries or the imposition of tariffs. we are also exposed to increases in energy prices, including as they relate to gasoline prices for our rolling-stock fleet of approximately 45,000 units. while we believe we can increase our prices to adjust for some price increases in commodities, there can be no assurance that price increases of commodities, if they were to occur, would be recoverable. additionally, some of our fixed price contracts do not allow us to adjust our prices and, as a result, increases in material or fuel costs could reduce our profitability with respect to such projects. we may not have access in the future to sufficient funding to finance desired growth and operations. if we cannot secure future funds or financing on acceptable terms, we may be unable to support our future operations or growth strategy. we use cash for acquisitions, investments and internal growth projects, and the timing and size of these efforts cannot be readily predicted and may be substantial. the use of cash on hand, cash from operations and cash from our senior secured credit facility to fund these efforts limits our financial flexibility and may increase our need to seek capital through additional debt or equity financings. we also rely on financing companies to fund the leasing of certain of our trucks and trailers, support vehicles and specialty construction equipment. credit market conditions may cause certain of these financing companies to restrict or withhold access to capital for us to fund the leasing of additional equipment. a widespread lack of available capital to fund the leasing of equipment could negatively impact our future operations. the credit agreement for our senior secured credit facility contains significant restrictions, including financial covenants and other restrictions on our ability to borrow amounts under the agreement and limitations on our ability to incur additional debt or conduct certain types of preferred equity financings. our ability to increase the current commitments under our senior secured credit facility is also dependent upon additional commitments from our lenders. furthermore, if we are permitted to seek additional debt or equity financings, we cannot be certain they will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all, as banks are often restrictive in their lending practices, and additional debt financing may include covenants that further limit our operational and financial flexibility. if we are unable to borrow under our senior secured credit facility or secure other financing or if our lenders become unable or unwilling to fund their commitments to us, we may not be able to access the capital needed to fund our growth and operations. for additional information on the terms of our senior secured credit facility, please read item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations debt instruments credit facility. additionally, the market price of our common stock has fluctuated, and may continue to fluctuate, significantly in response to various factors, including events beyond our control, which could impact our ability to utilize capital markets to obtain funds. a variety of events may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly, including overall market conditions or volatility, a shortfall in our operating results from those anticipated, negative financial results or other unfavorable information relating to our market peers or the other risks described in this annual report. 24 our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. borrowings under our credit facility are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. if interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness will increase even if the amount borrowed remains the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease. our weighted average interest rate on our variable rate debt for the year ended december 31, 2018 was 3.6% . the annual effect on our pretax earnings of a hypothetical 50 basis point increase or decrease in variable interest rates would be approximately $5.4 million based on our december 31, 2018 balance of variable rate debt. additionally, to address the transition in the financial markets away from the london interest bank offered rate (libor) by the end of 2021, our senior secured credit facility agreement includes provisions related to the replacement of libor with a libor successor rate (as defined in the credit agreement for such facility). changing to an alternative interest rate may lead to additional volatility in interest rates and could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. if no libor successor rate has been determined at the time certain circumstances are present, the lenders' obligation to make or maintain loans based on a eurocurrency rate could be suspended, and loans in u.s. dollars would default to the base rate (as described in note 8 to our notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data ) rather than a rate using the eurocurrency rate. if this were to occur, our available liquidity and cash flows could be negatively impacted. we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects if we are not able to obtain surety bonds, letters of credit or bank guarantees. a portion of our business depends on our ability to provide surety bonds, letters of credit, bank guarantees or other financial assurances. current or future market conditions, including losses incurred in the construction industry or as a result of large corporate bankruptcies, as well as changes in our sureties' assessment of our operating and financial risk, could cause our surety providers and lenders to decline to issue or renew, or substantially reduce the amount of, bid or performance bonds for our work and could increase our costs associated with collateral. these actions could be taken on short notice. if our surety providers or lenders were to limit or eliminate our access to bonding, letters of credit or guarantees, our alternatives would include seeking capacity from other sureties and lenders or finding more business that does not require bonds or that allows for other forms of collateral for project performance, such as cash. we may be unable to secure these alternatives in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all, which could affect our ability to bid for or work on future projects requiring financial assurances. we have also granted security interests in certain assets to collateralize our obligations to our sureties and lenders. furthermore, under standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue or continue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing or renewing bonds. if we were to experience an interruption or reduction in the availability of bonding capacity as a result of these or other reasons, we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects that require bonding. our failure to comply with environmental laws could result in significant liabilities and increased environmental regulations could result in increased costs. our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including those dealing with the handling and disposal of waste products, pcbs, fuel storage, water quality and air quality. we perform work in many different types of underground environments. if the field location maps supplied to us are not accurate, or if objects are present in the soil that are not indicated on the field location maps, our underground work could strike objects in the soil, some of which may contain pollutants. these objects may also rupture, resulting in the discharge of pollutants. in such circumstances, we may be liable for fines and damages, and we may be unable to obtain reimbursement from the parties providing the incorrect information. we perform work in and around environmentally sensitive areas such as rivers, lakes and wetlands. in addition, we perform directional drilling operations below certain environmentally sensitive terrains and water bodies. due to the inconsistent nature of the terrain and water bodies, it is possible that such directional drilling may cause a surface fracture, resulting in the release of subsurface materials. these subsurface materials may contain contaminants in excess of amounts permitted by law, potentially exposing us to remediation costs and fines. we also own and lease several facilities at which we store our equipment. some of these facilities contain fuel storage tanks that are above or below ground. if these tanks were to leak, we could be responsible for the cost of remediation as well as potential fines. moreover, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or leaks, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur significant costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in certain instances, we have obtained indemnification or covenants from third parties (including predecessors or lessors) for such clean-up and other obligations and liabilities. however, such third-party indemnities or covenants may not cover all of our costs and the indemnitors may not pay amounts owed to us, and such unanticipated obligations or liabilities, or future 25 obligations and liabilities, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. further, we cannot be certain that we will be able to identify or be indemnified for all potential environmental liabilities relating to any acquired business. concerns about climate change could also potentially result in new regulations, regulatory actions or requirements to fund energy efficiency activities, any of which could negatively affect our customers and decrease demand for their services, result in increased costs associated with our operations, or impact the prices we charge our customers. for example, if new regulations are adopted regulating greenhouse gas emissions from mobile sources such as cars and trucks, we could experience a significant increase in environmental compliance costs in light of our large rolling-stock fleet. in addition, if our operations are perceived to result in high greenhouse gas emissions, our reputation could suffer. certain regulatory requirements applicable to us and our subsidiaries could result in significant compliance costs and liabilities. we are subject to various regulatory regimes and requirements that could result in significant compliance costs and liabilities. as a public company, we are subject to the corporate governance and financial reporting requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, including requirements for management to report on our internal controls over financial reporting and for our independent registered public accounting firm to express an opinion on the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of december 31, 2018; however, there can be no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will be determined to be effective in future years. failure to maintain effective internal controls or to identify significant internal control deficiencies in acquired businesses (both prior acquisitions and future acquisitions) could result in a decrease in the market value of our publicly traded securities, a reduced ability to obtain debt and equity financing, a loss of customers, fines or penalties, and/or additional expenditures to meet the requirements or remedy any deficiencies. one of our subsidiaries has registered as an investment adviser with the sec under the u.s. investment advisers act of 1940, as amended (the advisers act). the advisers act and the rules promulgated thereunder impose substantive and material restrictions and requirements on the operations of this subsidiary, including certain fiduciary duties that apply to its relationships with its advisory clients. the sec has broad administrative powers to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations of the advisers act, ranging from fines and censures to termination of an adviser's registration. this subsidiary is also subject to periodic sec examinations and other requirements, including, among other things, maintaining an effective compliance program, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, disclosure requirements and complying with anti-fraud prohibitions. the failure of our subsidiary to comply with the requirements of the advisers act could result in fines, suspensions of individual employees or other sanctions against our subsidiary that could have a material adverse effect on us. even if an investigation or proceeding does not result in a fine or sanction or if a fine or sanction imposed against our subsidiary or its employees were small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity relating to an investigation, proceeding or imposition of these fines or sanctions could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on us. our wholly-owned captive insurance company is a registered insurance broker with the texas department of insurance, and therefore is subject to various rules and regulations and required to meet certain capital requirements, which can result in additional use of our resources. we own and operate a postsecondary educational institution that provides pre-apprenticeship training as well as programs for experienced lineman. in order to operate, each of the institution's campuses must be authorized by the state education agency where the campus is located, and the level of regulatory oversight varies substantially by state and can be extensive. if any of our campuses fail to comply with state licensing requirements, they may be unable to offer their programs and forced to close, which could result in harm to our reputation or negatively impact our ability to train skilled personnel that can be utilized to support our industry. additionally, because our institution operates in a highly regulated industry, it is subject to compliance reviews and lawsuits or claims by government agencies and third parties. if the results of these reviews or proceedings are unfavorable to us, we may be required to pay significant monetary damages or be subject to fines, limitations on the operations of the institution, injunctions or other penalties. the postsecondary educational institution is also accredited by the accrediting commission of career schools and colleges. accreditation is a non-governmental process through which a commission examines the academic quality of the instructional programs and is generally viewed as confirmation that the programs meet generally accepted academic standards and practices. if an institution fails to comply with accrediting commission requirements, the institution and/or its campuses are subject to loss of accreditation or may be placed on probation or a special monitoring or reporting status, which could ultimately result in loss of accreditation. campus closure or loss of accreditation could result in reputational harm or student-initiated litigation or negatively impact our ability to train skilled personnel that can be utilized to support our business. 26 if our intellectual property rights are unenforceable or become obsolete, or if new intellectual property rights held by a third party become the only or preferred way to perform services we offer, our competitive position could be adversely impacted. we utilize a variety of intellectual property rights while performing our services. we view our portfolio of proprietary energized services tools and techniques and other process and design technologies as our competitive strengths, which we believe differentiate our service offerings. we may not be able to successfully preserve these intellectual property rights in the future, and these rights could be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries in which our services may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. if we are unable to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights, or if intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings succeed against us, our ability to differentiate our service offerings could be reduced. further, if our intellectual property rights or work processes become obsolete, we may not be able to differentiate our service offerings and some of our competitors may be able to offer more attractive services to our customers, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may also license certain technologies from third parties, and there is a risk that our relationships with such licensors may terminate or expire or may be interrupted or harmed. we may incur additional healthcare costs arising from federal healthcare reform legislation. in march 2010, the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (collectively aca) were signed into law in the united states. the status of the aca and any repeal or replacement thereof, is currently uncertain. changes to laws governing health insurance could have a substantial impact on our financial results. we continue to monitor developments under aca, including any potential repeal or replacement thereof, and assess the extent to which any such change could result in long-term material cost increases for us. opportunities within the government arena could subject us to increased governmental regulation and costs. most government contracts are awarded through a regulated competitive bidding process, which can often be more time consuming than the bidding process for non-governmental projects. additionally, involvement with government contracts could require a significant amount of costs to be incurred before any revenues are realized. as a government contractor, we are also subject to a number of procurement rules and other public sector regulations, any deemed violation of which could lead to fines or penalties or a loss of business. government agencies routinely audit and investigate government contractors. government agencies may review a contractor's performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. if a government agency determines that costs were improperly allocated to specific contracts, such costs will not be reimbursed or a refund of previously reimbursed costs may be required. if a government agency alleges or proves improper activity, civil and criminal penalties could be imposed and serious reputational harm could result. many government contracts must be appropriated each year. if appropriations are not made in subsequent years, we would not realize all of the potential revenues from any awarded contracts. our sale or issuance of additional common stock or other equity-related securities could dilute each stockholder's ownership interest or adversely affect the market price of our common stock. we grow our business organically as well as through acquisitions. we often fund a significant portion of the consideration paid in connection with our acquisitions with the issuance of additional equity securities, including shares of our common stock and securities that are convertible into shares of our common stock. we may issue additional equity securities in the future, including in connection with future acquisitions or other issuances of our common stock or convertible securities or otherwise. our restated certificate of incorporation provides that we may issue up to 600,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 141,103,900 shares were outstanding as of december 31, 2018 . additionally, former owners of certain acquired businesses own exchangeable shares, 486,112 of which were outstanding as of december 31, 2018 and included in the calculation of basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding. these shares are exchangeable for shares of quanta common stock on a one-for-one basis. any additional issuances of common stock or exchangeable shares could have the effect of diluting our earnings per share and our existing stockholders' individual ownership percentages and could lead to volatility in the market price of our common stock. we cannot predict the effect that future issuances of our common stock or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of our common stock. there can be no assurance that we will declare or pay future dividends on our common stock. our board of directors declared an initial dividend on december 6, 2018, which was paid on january 16, 2019. the declaration, amount and timing of future dividends are subject to capital availability and determinations by our board of directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all respective laws and applicable agreements. our ability to declare and pay dividends will depend upon, among other factors, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, current and anticipated expansion plans, requirements under delaware law and other factors that our board 27 of directors may deem relevant. a reduction in or elimination of our dividend payments could have a material negative effect on our stock price. certain provisions of our corporate governing documents could make an acquisition of our company more difficult. the following provisions of our charter documents, as currently in effect, and delaware law could discourage potential proposals to acquire us, delay or prevent a change in control of us or limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock: our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to issue blank check preferred stock and to adopt amendments to our bylaws; our bylaws contain restrictions regarding the right of stockholders to nominate directors and to submit proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings; our certificate of incorporation and bylaws restrict the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to act by written consent; and we are subject to provisions of delaware law which restrict us from engaging in any of a broad range of business transactions with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date such stockholder became classified as an interested stockholder. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 64 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary exposure to market risk relates to unfavorable changes in concentration of credit risk, interest rates and currency exchange rates. credit risk. we are subject to concentrations of credit risk related to our cash and cash equivalents and net receivable position with customers, which includes amounts related to billed and unbilled accounts receivable and contract assets net of advanced billings with the same customer. substantially all of our cash and cash equivalents are managed by what we believe to be high credit quality financial institutions. in accordance with our investment policies, these institutions are authorized to invest cash and cash equivalents in a diversified portfolio of what we believe to be high-quality investments, which primarily include interest-bearing demand deposits, money market investments and money market mutual funds. although we do not currently believe the principal amounts of these cash and cash equivalents are subject to any material risk of loss, changes in economic conditions could impact the interest income we receive from these investments. in addition, we grant credit under normal payment terms, generally without collateral; and therefore, are subject to potential credit risk related to our customers' inability to pay for services provided. for example, in january 2019 one of our customers, pg&amp;e, filed for bankruptcy protection under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code, as amended. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations concentration of credit risk for additional information regarding our pre-petition receivables and this bankruptcy matter. furthermore, the risk of nonpayment may be heightened as a result of depressed economic and financial market conditions. we believe the concentration of credit risk related to billed and unbilled receivables and contract assets is limited because of the diversity of our customers, and we perform ongoing credit risk assessments of our customers and financial institutions and in some cases obtain collateral or other security from our customers. interest rate risk. as of december 31, 2018 , we had no derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate risk. as such, we were exposed to earnings and fair value risk due to changes in interest rates with respect to our long-term obligations. as of december 31, 2018 , the fair value of our variable rate debt of $1.07 billion approximated book value. our weighted average interest rate on our variable rate debt for the year ended december 31, 2018 was 3.6% . the annual effect on our pretax earnings of a hypothetical 50 basis point increase or decrease in variable interest rates would be approximately $5.4 million based on our december 31, 2018 balance of variable rate debt. foreign currency risk. the u.s. dollar is the functional currency for the majority of our operations, which are primarily located within the united states. the functional currency for our foreign operations, which are primarily located in canada, australia and latin america, is typically the currency of the country in which the foreign operating unit is located. accordingly, our financial performance is subject to fluctuation due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. during 2018 , revenues from our foreign operations accounted for 23.2% of our consolidated revenues. fluctuations in foreign exchange rates during the year ended december 31, 2018 caused a decrease of approximately $18 million in foreign revenues 64 compared to the year ended december 31, 2017 . fluctuations in foreign exchange rates during the year ended december 31, 2017 caused an increase of approximately $53 million in foreign revenues compared to the year ended december 31, 2016 . we are also subject to foreign currency risk with respect to sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies of our operating units. to minimize the risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we may enter into foreign currency derivative contracts to hedge our foreign currency risk on a cash flow basis. there were no outstanding foreign currency derivative contracts at december 31, 2018 . we also have foreign exchange risk related to cash and cash equivalents in foreign banks. based on the balance of cash and cash equivalents in foreign banks of $16.2 million as of december 31, 2018 , an assumed 5% adverse change to foreign exchange rates would result in a fair value decline of $0.7 million . fluctuations in fair value are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a separate component of stockholders' equity. 65risk factors 8 risk factors of this annual report on form 10-k (annual report) for further information regarding regulations applicable to our business. environmental matters and climate-related impacts we are committed to the protection of the environment and train our employees to perform their duties accordingly. we are subject to numerous federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations governing our operations, including the handling, transportation and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous substances and wastes, as well as emissions and discharges into the environment, including discharges to air, surface water, groundwater and soil. we also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and cleanup responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. under certain of these laws and regulations, liability can be imposed for cleanup of previously owned or operated properties or currently owned properties at which hazardous substances or wastes were discharged or disposed of by a former owner or operator, regardless 6 of whether we directly caused the contamination or violated any law at the time of discharge or disposal. the presence of contamination from such substances or wastes could also interfere with ongoing operations or adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property or use it as collateral for financing. in addition, we could be held liable for significant penalties and damages under certain environmental laws and regulations or be subject to revocation of certain licenses or permits, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. our contracts with customers may also impose liability on us for environmental issues that arise through the performance of our services. from time to time, we may incur costs and obligations for correcting environmental noncompliance matters and for remediation at or relating to certain of our properties. we believe that we are in substantial compliance with our environmental obligations and that any such obligations will not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial performance. while the potential impact of climate-related changes on our operations is uncertain, management considers climate-related risks and opportunities in connection with its long-term strategic planning and short-term deployment of resources. for example, climate change may result in, among other things, increasing temperatures, rising sea levels and changes to patterns and intensity of wildfires, hurricanes, other storms and severe weather-related events and natural disasters. as discussed elsewhere in this annual report, including in item 1a. risk factors , our operating results are significantly influenced by weather, and these changes could significantly impact our future operating results. a greater amount of rainfall, snow, ice or other less accommodating weather conditions, as well as an increase in severe weather events and natural disasters, could reduce our productivity or result in project delays or cancellations. however, an increase in certain of these events, such as hurricanes, tropical storms, wildfires, blizzards and ice storms, can create a greater amount of emergency restoration service work and increase customer spending on modernization and other infrastructure improvements (e.g., fire hardening programs in california and the western united states). additionally, changes in climate could result in more accommodating weather patterns for greater periods of time in certain areas, which may enable us to increase our productivity. climate change may also affect the conditions in which we operate, and in some cases, expose us to potentially increased liabilities associated with those environmental conditions. for example, severe drought and high wind speeds in the western united states have increased the risk of wildfires during certain portions of the year, which in turn has exposed us and other contractors to increased risk of liability in connection with our operations in those locations. these conditions have also resulted in increased costs for wildfire-related third-party insurance and reduced the amount insurance carriers are willing to make available under such policies. concerns about climate change could also result in potential new regulations, regulatory actions or requirements to fund energy efficiency activities, any of which could affect our customers and/or demand for our services. for example, any decrease in demand for fossil fuels could negatively impact demand for certain of our pipeline and industrial services. we also maintain a large fleet and a significant amount of construction machinery, all of which could be negatively impacted by new regulations related to greenhouse gas emissions from such sources. furthermore, technological advancements, in response to regulatory changes or otherwise, could negatively impact our customers' businesses or alter the services our customers require, which could in turn reduce demand for our services. however, these same regulatory and technological changes could necessitate new or expanded power generation and transmission infrastructure, which could provide additional opportunities for us. risk management and insurance we are insured for employer's liability, workers' compensation, auto liability and general liability claims. under these programs, the deductible for employer's liability is $1.0 million per occurrence, the deductible for workers' compensation is $5.0 million per occurrence, and the deductibles for auto liability and general liability are $10.0 million per occurrence. we manage and maintain a portion of our casualty risk through our wholly-owned captive insurance company, which insures all claims up to the amount of the applicable deductible of our third-party insurance programs. in connection with our casualty insurance programs, we are required to issue letters of credit to secure our obligations. we also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $0.5 million per claimant per year. losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimate of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. these insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the number of incidents not reported. the accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals are adequate. we renew our insurance policies on an annual basis, and therefore deductibles and levels of insurance coverage may change in future periods. in addition, insurers may cancel our coverage or determine to exclude certain items from coverage, or we may elect not to obtain certain types or incremental levels of insurance based on the potential benefits considered relative to the cost of such insurance, or coverage may not be available at reasonable and competitive rates. for example, due to the increased occurrence and future risk of wildfires in the western united states, australia and other areas in recent years, insurers have reduced coverage limits and increased the cost of insurance coverage for those events. in any such event, our overall risk exposure would increase, which could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 7 seasonality and cyclicality our revenues and results of operations can be subject to seasonal and other variations. these variations are influenced by, among other things, weather, customer spending patterns, bidding seasons, receipt of required regulatory approvals, permits and rights of way, project timing and schedules, and holidays. please read the section entitled significant factors impacting results included in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . website access and other information our website address is www.quantaservices.com . interested parties may obtain free electronic copies of our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to these reports through our website under the heading investor relations / sec filings or through the website of the securities and exchange commission (the sec) at www.sec.gov . these reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the sec. we will also make available to any stockholder, without charge, copies of our annual report on form 10-k as filed with the sec. for copies of this or any other quanta publication, stockholders may submit a request in writing to quanta services, inc., attn: corporate secretary, 2800 post oak blvd., suite 2600, houston, texas 77056, or by phone at (713) 629-7600. investors and others should note that we announce material financial information and make other public disclosures of information regarding quanta through sec filings, press releases, public conference calls, and our website. we also utilize social media to communicate this information, and it is possible that the information we post on social media could be deemed material. accordingly, we encourage investors, the media and others interested in our company to follow quanta, and review the information we post, on the social media channels listed on our website in the investors relations / social media section. this annual report, our website and our social media channels contain information provided by other sources that we believe is reliable. we cannot provide assurance that the information obtained from other sources is accurate or complete. no information on our website or our social media channels is incorporated by reference herein. item 1a. risk factors our business is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described below. the matters described below are not the only risks and uncertainties facing our company, and risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below also may impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows can be negatively affected, the value of securities we have issued could be adversely affected, resulting in stockholders and purchasers losing part or all of their investment, and we may not be able to achieve our strategic initiatives or expectations. this annual report also includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended as forward-looking statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and should be read in conjunction with the section entitled uncertainty of forward-looking statements and information included in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. risks related to our industries and operating our business our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. our business can be highly cyclical and is subject to seasonality and other factors that can result in significantly different operating results from quarter to quarter, and therefore our results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of future results. our quarterly results have been and may in the future be materially and/or adversely affected by, among other things: the timing and volume of work we perform and our performance with respect to ongoing projects; project delays, reductions in project scope, project terminations or cancellations and increases in project costs, including as a result of, among other things, natural disasters, adverse weather conditions or events, legal challenges or permitting, regulatory or environmental processes; variations in the size, scope, costs and margins of ongoing projects and the mix of our customers, contracts and business; fluctuations in economic, political and market conditions on a regional, national or global basis; pricing pressures as a result of competition; changes in the budgetary spending patterns or strategic plans of customers or federal, state, provincial and local governments; 8 liabilities and costs incurred in our operations that are not covered by, or that are in excess of, our third-party insurance, including significant liabilities that arise from the inherently hazardous conditions of our operations (e.g., explosions, fires) and which could be exacerbated by the geographies in which we operate; disputes with customers or delays relating to billing and payment under our contracts and change orders; payment risk associated with the financial condition of customers, including customers affected by the volatility of natural gas and oil prices or that have filed for bankruptcy protection; the resolution of, or unexpected or increased costs associated with, pending or threatened legal proceedings, indemnity obligations, multiemployer pension plan obligations (e.g., withdrawal liability) or other claims asserted against us; the termination or expiration of existing customer agreements; restructuring, severance and other costs associated with winding down certain operations and exiting markets, including our latin american operations; estimates and assumptions in determining our financial results, remaining performance obligations and backlog, including the timing and significance of impairments of long-lived assets, equity or other investments, receivables, goodwill or other intangible assets; significant fluctuations in foreign currency rates; the recognition of tax impacts related to changes in tax laws or uncertain tax positions; and the timing and magnitude of costs we incur to support growth internally or through acquisitions or otherwise. negative economic and market conditions, including low oil and natural gas production volumes and prices, can adversely impact our customers' future spending as well as payment for our services. stagnant or declining economic conditions, including a prolonged economic downturn or recession, as well as significant events that have an impact on financial or capital markets, can adversely impact the demand for our services and result in the delay, reduction or cancellation of certain projects. a number of factors can adversely affect the industries we serve, including, among other things, financing conditions, potential bankruptcies and global and u.s. trade relationships and other geopolitical events. a reduction in cash flow or the lack of availability of debt or equity financing for our customers could result in a reduction in our customers' spending for our services and also impact the ability of our customers to pay amounts owed to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. consolidation, competition, capital constraints or negative economic conditions in the electric power, energy or communications industries can also result in reduced spending by, or the loss of, one or more of our customers. our pipeline and industrial infrastructure services segment is exposed to risks associated with the oil and gas industry. these risks, which are not subject to our control, include the volatility of natural gas and oil prices and production, the development of and consumer demand for alternative energy sources, and legislative and regulatory actions, as well as public opinion, regarding the impact of fossil fuels on the climate and environment. specifically, lower prices and production volumes, or perceived risk thereof, can result in decreased or delayed spending by our customers, including with respect to larger pipeline and industrial projects. in addition, the 2020 u.s. presidential and congressional elections may result in a change in administration and control of congress with the potential consequence of increased restrictions on oil and gas production activities, which could have a material adverse effect on the oil and gas industry. if the profitability of our pipeline and industrial infrastructure services segment were to decline, our overall financial position, results of operations and cash flows could also be adversely affected. additionally, a decline in prices, production or the development of resource plays can negatively impact certain portions of our electric power infrastructure services segment. for example, the low price of oil has had an adverse impact on the canadian economy, which has impacted demand for some of our electric power services in canada. a variety of issues outside of our control could affect the timing of and our performance on projects, which may result in additional costs to us, reductions or delays in revenues, the payment of liquidated damages or project termination. our business is dependent in part upon projects that can be cyclical in nature and are subject to risks of delay or cancellation. the timing of or failure to obtain contracts, delays in awards of, start dates for or completion of projects and the cancellations of projects can result in significant periodic fluctuations in our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. many of our projects involve challenging engineering, permitting, procurement and construction phases that occur over extended time periods, sometimes several years, and we have encountered and may in the future encounter project delays or project performance issues as a result of, among other things: delays in the delivery or management of design or engineering information, equipment or materials; schedule changes; 9 natural disasters, including wildfires, earthquakes and significant weather events (e.g., hurricanes, tropical storms, tornadoes, floods, droughts, blizzards and extreme temperatures); adverse weather conditions (e.g., prolonged rainfall or snowfall, early thaw in canada and the northern united states, other unseasonable weather patterns); our or a customer's failure to timely obtain permits or rights of way or meet other permitting, regulatory or environmental requirements or conditions; difficult terrain and site conditions where delivery of materials and availability of labor are impacted or where there is exposure to harsh and hazardous conditions; protests, legal challenges or other political activity or opposition to a project; changes in permitting and regulatory requirements during the course of our work; and other factors such as terrorism, military action and public health crises (including the outbreak of the recent coronavirus); additional complexity, timing uncertainty or extended bidding, regulatory and permitting processes associated with the projects where we provide engineering, procurement and construction (epc) services. in addition, we contract with third-party suppliers and subcontractors to assist us with the completion of contracts, and approximately 15% to 20% of our work is subcontracted to other service providers. a delay or failure to perform by suppliers or by subcontractors can result in delays in the overall progress of the project or cause us to incur additional costs. many of these difficulties and delays are beyond our control and can negatively impact our ability to complete the project in accordance with the required delivery schedule or achieve our anticipated margin on the project. delays and additional costs may be substantial and not recoverable from third parties, and in some cases, we may be required to compensate the customer for such delays. furthermore, in certain circumstances we guarantee project completion or performance by a scheduled date, and failure to meet the schedule or performance requirements can result in additional costs or penalties, including liquidated damages. such amounts could exceed expected project profit. in extreme cases, project delay or performance difficulties can result in project cancellation by a customer or damage to our reputation or relationship with a customer, which can adversely affect our ability to secure new contracts. additional costs or penalties, a reduction in our productivity or efficiency or a project termination in any given period can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for example, as discussed in further detail in legal proceedings within note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data , the termination of a telecommunications project in peru resulted in a $79.2 million charge to earnings in the second quarter of 2019. our revenues and profitability can be exposed to potential risk if our customers encounter financial difficulties or file bankruptcy or disputes arise with our customers. our contracts often require us to satisfy or achieve certain milestones in order to receive payment, or in the case of cost-reimbursable contracts, provide support for billings in advance of payment. as a result, we can incur significant costs or perform significant amounts of work prior to receipt of payment. we face difficulties collecting payment and sometimes failed to receive payment for such costs in circumstances where our customers do not proceed to project completion, terminate or cancel a contract, default on their payment obligations, or dispute the adequacy of our billing support. we have in the past brought, and may in the future bring, claims against our customers related to the payment terms of our contracts. for example, we have filed an international arbitration proceeding against the customer in connection with the terminated telecommunications project in peru, which seeks to recover, among other things, amounts related to a net receivable position of approximately $120 million as of december 31, 2019 . for additional information on this matter, see legal proceedings within note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data . a failure to promptly recover on these types of claims can have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and any such claims may harm our relationships with our customers. slowing economic conditions in the industries we serve can also impair the financial condition of our customers and hinder their ability to pay us on a timely basis or at all. further, to the extent a customer files bankruptcy, payment of amounts owed can be delayed and certain payments we receive prior to the filing of the bankruptcy petition may be avoided and returned to the customer's bankruptcy estate. for example, in january 2019, pg&amp;e corporation and pacific gas and electric company (collectively, pg&amp;e), one of our largest customers, filed for bankruptcy protection under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code, as amended, which impacted the collection of approximately $165 million of pre-petition receivables. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - concentrations of credit risk for additional information on this matter. additionally, many of our customers for larger projects are project-specific entities that do not have significant assets other than their interests in the project and could be more likely to encounter financial difficulties relating to their businesses. we ultimately may be unable to collect amounts owed to us by customers experiencing financial difficulties or 10 in bankruptcy, and accounts receivable from such customers may become uncollectible and ultimately have to be written off, which could have an adverse effect on our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our business is subject to operational hazards, including, among others, wildfires and explosions, that can result in significant liabilities and that may be exacerbated by certain geographies and locations where we perform services, and we may not be insured against all potential liabilities. due to the nature of services we provide and the conditions in which we and our customers operate, our business is subject to operational hazards and accidents that can result in significant liabilities. these operational hazards include, among other things, electricity, fires, explosions, leaks, collisions, mechanical failures, and damage from severe weather conditions and natural disasters. furthermore, certain of our customers operate energy- and communications-related infrastructure assets in locations and environments that increase the likelihood and/or severity of these operational hazards, including as a result of changes in climate and other factors in recent years. in particular, we perform a significant amount of services, including operational, consulting and other services, for customers that operate electrical power, natural gas and communications infrastructure assets in the western united states, australia and other locations that have recently experienced, and have a higher risk of, wildfires. for example, certain of quanta's operating units perform inspection, consulting, repair, maintenance and other services for utilities and other customers that operate electric power and other infrastructure in california and other areas in the western united states, including recent inspection of, and other services relating to, the electrical transmission and distribution infrastructure operated by pg&amp;e in california. pg&amp;e and certain other utility customers have been determined to be or are potentially responsible for catastrophic wildfires that have occurred in recent years. quanta's operating units have received document hold requests and subpoenas in connection with these events. we are not a party to any pending legal proceeding relating to such wildfires at this time, and no related claims asserting liabilities against quanta or its operating units have been filed. however, there is no assurance that claims will not be filed in the future. we also often perform services in locations that are densely populated and that have higher value property and assets, such as california and metropolitan areas, which can increase the impact of any of these hazards or other accidents we experience. we recently acquired the hallen construction co., inc. (hallen), a company that specializes in underground gas and electric distribution and transmission services and operates in metropolitan areas throughout the northeastern united states, including new york city, new york. this acquisition, including certain assumed liabilities associated with its pre-acquisition operations, which are described further in note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data , increases our potential exposure to certain of these hazards and accidents. events arising from operational hazards and accidents have resulted in significant liabilities to us in the past and may expose us to significant claims and liabilities in the future. these claims and liabilities can arise through indemnification obligations to customers, our negligence or otherwise, and because our services in certain instances are integral to the operation and performance of our customers' infrastructure, such claims and liabilities can arise even if our operations are not the cause of the harm. our exposure to liability can also extend for a number of years after we complete our services, and potential claims and liabilities arising from significant accidents and events can take a number of years and significant legal costs to ultimately resolve. potential liabilities include, among other things, claims associated with personal injury, including severe injury or loss of life, and significant damage to property, equipment and the environment, and other claims discussed above and can lead to suspension of operations, adverse effects to our safety record and reputation and/or material legal costs and liabilities. in addition, if any of these events or losses related thereto are found to be the result of our or our customer's activities or services, we could be subject to government enforcement actions or regulatory penalties, litigation and/or civil or governmental actions, including investigations, citations and fines. insurance coverage may not be available to us or may be insufficient to cover the cost of any of these liabilities and legal costs. if we are not fully insured or indemnified against such liabilities and legal costs or a counterparty fails to meet its indemnification obligations to us, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. further, to the extent our reputation or safety record is adversely affected, demand for our services could decline or we may not be able to bid for certain work. unavailability or cancellation of third-party insurance coverage would increase our overall risk exposure, as well as disrupt our operations, and estimates of losses covered by our insurance policies could prove incorrect. we maintain insurance coverage from third-party insurers as part of our overall risk management strategy and because some of our contracts require us to maintain specific insurance coverage limits. we are insured for, among other things, employer's liability, workers' compensation, auto liability and general liability claims, but such insurance is subject to deductibles and limits and may be canceled or may not cover all of our losses. we manage and maintain a portion of our casualty risk through our wholly-owned captive insurance company, which insures all claims up to the amount of the applicable deductible of our third-party insurance programs. in connection with our casualty insurance programs, we are required to issue letters of credit to secure our obligations. our insurance policies include various coverage requirements, including the requirement to give appropriate notice, and coverage could be denied if we fail to comply with those requirements. 11 additionally, our insurance coverages may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances or against all claims and liabilities asserted against us, and if we are not fully insured against such claims and liabilities, it could expose us to significant liabilities and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we also renew our insurance policies on an annual basis, and therefore deductibles and levels of coverage offered by third parties may change in future periods. for example, due to the increased occurrence in recent years and future risk of wildfires in california and other areas in the western united states, australia and other locations, insurers have reduced coverage limits and increased the cost of insurance coverage for those events. as a result, we expect our level of insurance coverage for wildfire events will decrease at the time of our annual insurance renewal in the spring of 2020, and such level may not be sufficient to cover potential losses. in addition, our third party insurers could decide to further reduce or exclude coverage for wildfires in the future. there can also be no assurance that any of our other existing third-party insurance coverages will be renewed at their current levels or at all or that any future coverage will be available at reasonable and competitive rates. our third-party insurers could also fail, cancel our coverage or otherwise be unable or unwilling to provide us with adequate insurance coverage. adverse changes in our insurance coverage could increase our exposure to uninsured losses, which could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or result in a disruption of our operations. losses under our insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimate of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. these insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the number of incidents not reported. if we experience claims or costs above our estimates, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. our business is labor-intensive, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees or we may incur significant costs in the event we are unable to efficiently manage our workforce. our ability to efficiently manage our business and achieve our strategic initiatives is limited by our ability to employ, train and retain the necessary skilled personnel, which is subject to a number of risks. the commencement of new, large-scale infrastructure projects or increased demand for infrastructure improvements, as well as the aging electric utility workforce, has reduced and may further reduce the pool of skilled workers, including qualified journeyman lineman, available for our electric power infrastructure services segment. with respect to our pipeline and industrial infrastructure services segment, there is limited availability of experienced supervisors and foremen that can oversee larger diameter pipeline projects. the cyclical nature of the natural gas and oil industry can also create shortages of qualified labor during periods of high demand and production. a shortage in the supply of these personnel creates competitive hiring markets that may result in increased labor expenses. additionally, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant education and training expenses in order to recruit and train employees. the uncertainty of contract award timing and project delays can also present difficulties in managing our workforce size. our inability to efficiently manage our workforce may require us to incur costs resulting from excess staff, reductions in staff, or redundancies that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the loss of, or reduction in business from, one or a few customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. a few customers have in the past and may in the future account for a significant portion of our revenues. for example, our ten largest customers accounted for 34% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended december 31, 2019. although we have long-standing relationships with many of our significant customers, a significant customer may unilaterally reduce or discontinue business with us at any time or merge or be acquired by a company that decides to reduce or discontinue business with us. pg&amp;e, one of our largest customers, has filed for bankruptcy, and other significant customers may file for bankruptcy protection or cease operations, which could also result in reduced or discontinued business with us. the loss of business from a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may fail to adequately recover on contract change orders or claims brought by us against customers. we have in the past brought, and may in the future bring, claims against our customers. these types of claims occur due to, among other things, delays caused by customers and third parties and changes in project scope, which can result in additional costs that may not be recovered until the claim is resolved. while we generally negotiate with the customer for additional compensation, we may be unable to obtain, through negotiation, arbitration, litigation or otherwise, adequate amounts to compensate us for the additional work or expenses incurred. litigation or arbitration with respect to these matters is generally lengthy and costly, involves significant uncertainty as to timing and amount of any resolution, and can adversely affect our relationship with existing or potential customers. furthermore, we can be required to invest significant working capital to fund cost overruns while the resolution of a claim is pending. failure to obtain adequate and prompt compensation for these matters can result in a reduction of revenues and gross profit recognized in prior periods or the recognition of a loss. any such reduction or loss can be substantial and can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 12 our failure to accurately estimate project costs or successfully execute a project could result in reduced profits or losses. we currently generate, and expect to continue generating, a significant portion of our revenues under fixed price contracts, including contracts for projects where we provide epc services (e.g., large electric transmission and pipeline projects, facility and terminal projects). under these contracts, we assume risks related to project estimates and execution, and project revenues, profitability and costs can vary, sometimes substantially, from our original projections due to a variety of factors, including: unforeseen circumstances or project modifications not included in our cost estimates or covered by our contract for which we cannot obtain adequate compensation, including concealed or unknown environmental, geological or geographical site conditions and technical problems such as design or engineering issues; failure to accurately estimate project costs or accurately establish the scope of our services; failure to coordinate performance of subcontractors, suppliers and other third parties or delays and failure to perform by such parties; inability to meet project schedule requirements or achieve guaranteed performance or quality standards for a project, which can result in increased costs or the payment of liquidated damages to the customer; failure to properly make judgments in accordance with applicable professional standards (e.g., engineering standards); changes in the cost of equipment, commodities, materials or labor; contract termination or suspension and our inability to obtain reimbursement for services performed, costs incurred or expected profit; delays or productivity issues caused by adverse weather conditions, significant weather events or other natural disasters; delays and additional costs associated with obtaining required permits or approvals; changes in laws or regulations; delays and additional costs attributable to legal challenges and protests and other political activity; and quality issues, including those requiring rework or replacement. these factors and events can result in reputational harm or cause actual revenues and gross profits for a project to differ from what we originally estimated, resulting in reduced profitability or losses on projects. such differences can materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. changes in estimates related to revenues and costs associated with our contracts with customers could result in a reduction or elimination of revenues, a reduction of profits or the recognition of losses. for fixed price contracts and certain unit-price contracts, we recognize revenue as performance obligations are satisfied over time and earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability, as discussed in further detail in note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data . changes in contract estimates are recognized on a cumulative catch-up basis in the period in which the revisions to the estimates are made, and contract losses are recognized in full when losses are determined to be probable and can be reasonably estimated. variable consideration amounts, including performance incentives, early pay discounts and penalties, may also cause changes in contract estimates. in addition, we recognize amounts associated with change orders and/or claims as revenue when it is probable that the contract price will be adjusted and the amount of any such adjustment can be reasonably estimated, which can result in the recognition of costs prior to the recognition of the related revenue. furthermore, actual amounts collected in connection with change orders can differ from estimated amounts. consequently, the timing for recognition of revenues and profit or loss and any subsequent changes in estimates is uncertain and could result in a reduction or an elimination of previously reported revenues or profits or the recognition of losses on the associated contract. any such adjustments could be significant and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. during the ordinary course of our business, we are subject to lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings. we have in the past been, and may in the future be, named as a defendant in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business. these actions seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury (including claims for loss of life), workers' compensation, employment discrimination, sexual harassment, workplace misconduct, wage and hour claims and other employment-related damages, compensation for breach of contract, negligence or gross negligence or property damage, environmental liabilities, multiemployer pension plan withdrawal liabilities, punitive damages, consequential damages, and civil penalties or other losses or injunctive or declaratory relief. in addition, we generally indemnify our customers for claims related to the services we provide and actions we take under our contracts, and, in some instances, we are allocated risk 13 through our contract terms for actions by our customers, subcontractors or other third parties. because our services in certain instances can be integral to the operation and performance of our customers' infrastructure, we have been and may become subject to lawsuits or claims for any failure of the systems that we work on, even if our services are not the cause of such failures. we could also be subject to civil and criminal liabilities, which could be material. insurance coverage may not be available or may be insufficient for these lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings. the outcome of any allegations, lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings, as well as any public reaction thereto, is inherently uncertain and could result in significant costs, damage to our brands or reputation and diversion of management's attention from our business. payments of significant amounts, even if reserved, could materially and adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for details on our existing litigation, claims and other legal proceedings, refer to note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. we may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth, which could adversely affect our business. many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth are beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies for achieving internal growth will be successful. inability to successfully generate internal growth may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to: expand the range of services we offer to customers to address their evolving infrastructure needs; attract new customers; increase the number of projects performed for existing customers; hire and retain qualified employees; expand geographically; and address regulatory, environmental and permitting requirements and economic or market conditions that affect us or our customers. many of our contracts may be canceled or suspended on short notice or may not be renewed upon completion or expiration, and we may be unsuccessful in replacing our contracts, which could adversely affect our business. our customers have in the past and may in the future cancel, delay or reduce the number or size of projects available to us for a variety of reasons, including capital constraints or inability to meet regulatory requirements. furthermore, many of our customers may cancel or suspend our contracts on short notice, typically 30 to 90 days, even if we are not in default under the contract. certain of our customers assign work to us on a project-by-project basis under master service agreements. under these agreements, our customers generally have no obligation to assign a specific amount of work to us. our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows can be negatively impacted if any of the following occur: our customers cancel or suspend contracts having significant value; we fail to renew a significant number of our existing contracts; we complete a significant number of non-recurring projects and cannot replace them with similar projects; the anticipated volume of work under an existing master service agreement is not assigned to us; we are not the successful bidder on our existing contracts that are subject to re-bid in the future; or we fail to reduce operating and overhead expenses consistent with any decrease in our revenues. our business is highly competitive, and competitive pressures, technological advancements and other market conditions could negatively affect our business. the specialty contracting business is served by numerous companies, from small, owner-operated private companies to large multi-national, public companies. relatively few barriers prevent entry into some areas of our business, and as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become one of our competitors. in addition, some of our competitors have significant financial, technical and marketing resources. our competitors may have or may develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services. similarly, we cannot be certain that we will maintain or enhance our competitive position within the specialty contracting business or maintain our current customer base. certain of our competitors may have lower overhead cost structures, and therefore may be able to provide services at lower rates than us. we also face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers, which are capable of performing, or acquiring businesses that perform, some of the same types of services we provide. these customers may also face pressure or be compelled by regulatory or other requirements to self-perform an 14 increasing amount of the services we currently perform for them. therefore, we cannot be certain that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource these services in the future. furthermore, a substantial portion of our revenues is directly or indirectly dependent upon obtaining new contracts. the timing of project awards is unpredictable and often involves complex and lengthy negotiations and bidding processes. these processes are impacted by a wide variety of factors, including price, governmental approvals, financing contingencies, commodity prices, environmental conditions and overall market and economic conditions. the competitive environment we operate in can also affect the timing of contract awards and the commencement or progress of work under awarded contracts. for example, based on rapidly changing competition dynamics, we have experienced, and may in the future experience, more competitive pricing in certain markets, such as the smaller scale transmission and distribution electric power market. our bids also may not be successful due to, among other things, a potential customer's perception of our ability to perform the work or the technological advantages held by our competitors. additionally, changing competitive pressures present difficulties in matching workforce size with available contract awards. as a result, the competitive environment we operate in can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and cause our results of operations and cash flows to fluctuate significantly. technological advancements and other factors may alter our customers' existing operating model or the services they require, which may also result in reduced demand for our services. in addition, market changes within our customers' industries could impact their future demand for our services, such as a reduction in demand for hydrocarbons or plastics that negatively impacts certain of our customers. our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt to these changes to our customers' existing operating model in a cost-effective manner and to offer services that meet customer demands and evolving industry standards. if we fail to adapt successfully to any change or obsolescence or incur significant expenditures in adapting to such change, our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. the nature of our business exposes us to potential liability for warranty, engineering and other related claims. under our contracts with customers, we typically provide warranties for our services and materials we provide, guaranteeing the work performed against, among other things, defects in workmanship, and may agree to indemnify our customers for losses related to our services. the length of the warranty periods we agree to vary and can extend for several years, and certain projects can have longer warranty periods and include facility performance warranties that are broader than the warranties we generally provide. warranties generally require us to re-perform the services and/or repair or replace the warranted item and any other facilities impacted thereby, at our sole expense, and we could also be responsible for other damages if we are not able to adequately satisfy our warranty obligations. in addition, we can be required under contractual arrangements with our customers to warrant any defects or failures in materials we provide. while we generally require the materials suppliers to provide us warranties that are consistent with those we provide to our customers, if any of these suppliers default on their warranty obligations to us, we may incur costs to repair or replace the defective materials. costs incurred as a result of warranty claims could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. furthermore, our business involves professional judgments regarding the planning, design, development, construction, operations and management of electric power transmission, communications and pipeline infrastructure. because our projects are often technically complex, our failure to make judgments and recommendations in accordance with applicable professional standards, including engineering standards, could result in damages. a significantly adverse or catastrophic event at a project site or completed project resulting from the services we performed could result in significant professional or product liability, personal injury (including claims for loss of life) or property damage claims or other claims against us, as well as reputational harm. these liabilities could exceed our insurance limits or impact our ability to obtain third-party insurance in the future, and customers, subcontractors or suppliers who have agreed to indemnify us against any such liabilities or losses might refuse or be unable to pay us. as a result, these claims could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we can incur liabilities or suffer negative financial or reputational impacts relating to occupational health and safety matters. our operations are inherently hazardous and subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace. while we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources in our occupational health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operational risk, and there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant liability exposure. although we have taken what we believe are appropriate precautions, we have suffered serious accidents, including fatalities, and we anticipate that our operations may result in additional serious accidents in the future. as a result of these events, we could be subject to substantial penalties, criminal prosecution or civil litigation, including claims for bodily injury or loss of life, that could result in substantial costs and liabilities. in addition, if our safety record were to substantially deteriorate over time or we were to suffer substantial penalties or criminal prosecution for violation of health and safety regulations, our customers could cancel our contracts and elect to procure future services from other providers. unsafe work sites also have the potential to increase employee turnover, increase the costs of projects for our clients, and raise our operating costs. any of the foregoing could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 15 disruptions to our information technology systems or our failure to adequately protect critical data, sensitive information and technology systems could materially affect our business or result in harm to our reputation. we rely on information technology systems to manage our operations and other business processes and to protect sensitive company information. we also collect and retain information about our customers, stockholders, vendors and employees, all of which expect that we will adequately protect such information. breaches or disruptions of our information systems can result from, among other things, cyber-attacks, theft, inadvertent exposure of sensitive information, acts of terrorism, storms or other natural phenomena, information technology solution failures or network disruptions, and any such cyber-attacks or breaches can go unnoticed for some period of time. an intrusion into the information systems of a business we acquire may also ultimately compromise our systems. furthermore, some of the energy infrastructure systems on which we work may be considered to be strategic targets, and therefore at greater risk of cyber-attacks or acts of terrorism than other targets. cyber-attacks can result in compromises of our payment systems, monetary losses, inability to access our systems, delays in processing transactions or reporting financial results, the disclosure or misappropriation of confidential or proprietary company information (including for the purpose of transacting in our stock), or the release of customer, stockholder, vendor or employee data. an attack could also cause service disruptions to our internal systems or, in extreme circumstances, infiltration into, damage to or loss of control of our customers' energy infrastructure systems. any such breach or disruption could subject us to significant liabilities, cause damage to our reputation or customer relationships, or result in regulatory investigations or other actions by governmental authorities. we also continue to implement information technology solutions that require substantial financial and personnel resources. there is no guarantee that we will realize economic or other intended benefits from these systems. furthermore, failure to properly implement these systems could result in substantial disruptions to our business, including with respect to coordinating and processing our normal business activities and financial reporting and testing and recording certain data necessary to provide oversight of our disclosure controls and procedures and effective internal controls over our financial reporting, as well as other unforeseen problems. any deterioration in the quality or reputation of our brands, which can be exacerbated by the effect of social media or significant media coverage, could have an adverse impact on our business or reputation. our brands and our reputation are among our most important assets. the success of our business and our ability to attract and retain customers depends on brand recognition and reputation. such dependence makes our business susceptible to reputational damage and to competition from other companies. a variety of events could result in damage to our reputation or brands, some of which are outside of our control, including: acts or omissions that adversely affect our business such as a crime, scandal, cyber-related incident, litigation or other negative publicity; failure to successfully perform a high-profile project; actual or potential involvement in a catastrophic fire, explosion or similar event; or actual or perceived responsibility for a serious accident or injury. intensifying media coverage, including the considerable expansion in the use of social media over recent years, has increased the volume and speed at which negative publicity arising from these events can be generated and spread, and we may be unable to timely respond to, correct any inaccuracies in, or adequately address negative perceptions arising from such media coverage. if the reputation or perceived quality of our brands decline, our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be adversely affected and we could lose the confidence of our customers, which could adversely affect demand for our services. our financial results are based upon estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. in preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with gaap, several estimates and assumptions are used by management to report the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. these estimates and assumptions are necessary because certain information used in the preparation of our financial statements is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from available data or cannot be readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. in some cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine, and we must exercise significant judgment. for example, we utilize estimates in our assessment of the allowance for doubtful accounts, valuation of inventory, useful lives of assets, fair value assumptions in analyzing goodwill, other intangibles and long-lived asset impairments, equity and other investments, loan receivables, purchase price allocations, acquisition-related contingent consideration liabilities, liabilities for insurance and other claims and guarantees, multiemployer pension plan withdrawal liabilities, revenue recognition for construction contracts inclusive of contractual change orders and claims, share-based compensation, operating results of reportable segments, provision (benefit) for income taxes and the calculation of uncertain tax positions. actual results for all estimates can differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 16 additionally, our remaining performance obligations and backlog are difficult to determine with certainty. customers often have no obligation under our contracts to assign or release work to us, and many contracts may be terminated on short notice. cancellation or reduction in scope of a contract can significantly reduce the revenues and profit we receive. consequently, our estimates of remaining performance obligations and backlog may not be accurate, and we may not be able to realize our estimated remaining performance obligations and backlog. our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected as a result of asset impairments. our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by impairments to goodwill, other intangible assets, receivables, long-lived assets or investments. for example, when we acquire a business, we record goodwill in an amount equal to the amount we paid for the business minus the fair value of the net tangible assets and other intangible assets of the acquired business. goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives cannot be amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairment, as described in note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data . we have recorded impairments in the past, and any future impairments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations for the period in which the impairment is recognized. for example, during the fourth quarters of 2019 and 2018, we recorded $13.9 million and $49.4 million of asset impairment charges primarily related to the winding down and exit of certain oil-influenced operations and assets. additionally, we have concluded to pursue an orderly exit of our latin american operations, which could result in asset impairments related to those operations during 2020 or in subsequent years. in addition, we enter into various types of investment arrangements in the normal course of business, each having unique terms and conditions. equity investments are reviewed for impairment by assessing whether there has been a decline in the fair value of the investment below the carrying amount and whether that decline is considered to be other than temporary as described in note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data . our inability to successfully execute our acquisition strategy may have an adverse impact on our growth strategy. our business strategy includes expanding our presence in the industries we serve through strategic acquisitions of companies that complement or enhance our business. the number of acquisition targets that meet our criteria may be limited. we may also face competition for acquisition opportunities, and other potential acquirers may offer more favorable terms or have greater financial resources available for potential acquisitions. this competition may further limit our acquisition opportunities or raise the prices of acquisitions and make them less accretive, or possibly not accretive, to us. failure to consummate future acquisitions could negatively affect our growth strategies. additionally, our past acquisitions have involved, and our future acquisitions may involve, significant cash expenditures, the incurrence or assumption of debt and the assumption of burdensome regulatory requirements and liabilities. for example, in the hallen acquisition, we assumed certain contingent liabilities associated with hallen's pre-acquisition operations, which are described further in note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data . as a result, past or future acquisitions may ultimately have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the success of our acquisition strategy also depends on our ability to successfully integrate the operations of the acquired businesses with our existing operations and realize the anticipated benefits from the acquired businesses, such as the expansion of our existing operations, elimination of redundant costs and capitalizing on cross-selling opportunities. our ability to integrate and realize benefits can be negatively impacted by, among other things: failure of an acquired business to achieve the results we expect; diversion of our management's attention from operational and other matters or other potential disruptions to our existing business; difficulties incorporating the operations and personnel, or inability to retain key personnel, of an acquired business; additional financial reporting and accounting challenges associated with an acquired business; unanticipated events or liabilities associated with the operations of an acquired business; loss of business due to customer overlap or other factors; and risks and liabilities arising from the prior operations of an acquired business, such as performance, operational, safety, workforce or other compliance or tax issues, some of which we may not have discovered or accurately estimated during our due diligence and may not be covered by indemnification obligations or available insurance. we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully complete the integration process without substantial costs, delays, disruptions or other operational or financial problems. failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 17 our business growth could outpace the capability of our decentralized management structure. we cannot be certain that our management structure will be adequate to support our operations as they expand. for example, the ability to internally communicate, coordinate and execute business strategies, plans and tactics may be negatively impacted by our increasing size and complexity. a decentralized structure places significant control and decision-making powers in the hands of our operating unit management. this contributes to the risk that we may be slower or less able to identify or react to problems affecting key business matters than we would in a more centralized environment. the lack of timely access to information may also impact the quality of decision making by management. our decentralized organization can also result in our operating subsidiaries assuming excessive risk without appropriate guidance from our centralized legal, accounting, safety, tax, treasury and insurance functions. future growth could also impose significant additional responsibilities on members of our senior management, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit, integrate and retain new senior level managers and executives. to the extent that we are unable to manage our growth effectively or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified management, we may not be able to expand our operations or execute our business plan. the loss of key personnel could disrupt our business. we depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and senior management, including the management at each of our operating units. although we typically enter into employment agreements with our executive officers and other key employees for initial terms of one to three years and subsequent renewal options, we cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time. the loss of key management personnel, as well as our inability to attract, develop and retain qualified employees that can succeed key personnel, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business. our investments expose us to risks and may result in conflicts of interest that could adversely impact our business or result in reputational harm. we have entered into strategic relationships and investment arrangements with various partners, including customers and infrastructure investors, through which we have invested and intend to invest in infrastructure assets. we expect this activity to continue in the future and for additional information on our recent investment activity, see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - recent acquisitions, investments and divestitures . these types of investments expose us to increased risks, including poor performance by the infrastructure projects in which we have invested due to, among other things, difficult market or economic conditions or slowdowns (which may occur across one or more industries, sectors or geographies) or changes to the supply or demand and fluctuations in the price of commodities. that negative performance could result in lower investment returns, a decline in value or total loss of our investments or the possible sale of our investments at values below our initial projections, including at a loss, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, poor performance of our investments or poor or incomplete performance by our capital partnership structure formed with select infrastructure investors could result in reputational harm to quanta that impairs our ability to participate in future investment opportunities, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to secure certain future projects. for example, in october 2019, due to certain management changes, our capital partnership investment structure with select investors entered into a 180-day period during which the investors and quanta will evaluate the partnership, at the end of which the investors or quanta may elect to end the investment period for any future investments or dissolve the partnership. further, our relationship with a customer or investor that partners with us in a poorly performing investment could become impaired, which may negatively impact our ability to continue providing services to that customer. conflicts of interest may also exist or arise for us in relation to our investment partners as a result of the structure of our investment arrangements. for example, in these structures, quanta can be the contractor for a project as well as an equity investor and possibly the manager of investments in that project. in those instances, conflicts of interest can exist for such things as contractor pricing and the handling of contractor change orders and other claims. while we have taken certain actions that we believe minimize or address these and other anticipated conflicts of interest, including through internal management practices and the terms of our agreements with investment partners, our failure to properly manage such conflicts of interest can expose us to liability or harm our relationships with investment partners, which could impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or cause reputational harm to quanta. our participation in joint ventures exposes us to liability and/or harm to our reputation for failures of our partners. we have entered into joint venture arrangements and likely will continue to do so. the purpose of these joint ventures is typically to combine skills and resources to allow for the bidding and performance of particular projects. success on these projects can be adversely affected by the performance of our joint venture partners, over whom we may have little or no control. differences in opinions or views between us and our joint venture partners may result in delayed decision-making or failure to agree on material issues that may adversely affect the business and operations of our joint ventures. additionally, the failure by a joint venture partner to successfully perform or comply with applicable laws, regulations or client requirements could negatively impact our business. we and our joint venture partners are generally jointly and severally liable for all liabilities and obligations of a joint venture. 18 if a joint venture partner fails to perform or is unable to satisfy required capital contributions or other obligations, including liabilities stemming from claims or lawsuits, we could be required to make additional investments, provide additional services or pay more than our proportionate share of a liability to make up for their shortfall. further, if our partners experience cost overruns or project performance issues that we are unable to adequately address, the customer may terminate the project, which could result in legal liability to us, harm our reputation and reduce our profit or increase our loss on a project. we extend credit to customers for purchases of our services and enter into other arrangements with certain of our customers, which subjects us to potential credit or investment risk. we grant credit, generally without collateral, to our customers, which include utilities, energy companies, communications providers, governmental entities, general contractors, and builders, owners and managers of renewable energy facilities and commercial and industrial properties located primarily in the united states, canada, australia and latin america. in certain circumstances, we also allow our customers to defer payment until certain project milestones have been met or until a project is substantially completed, and customers typically withhold some portion of amounts due to us as retainage until a project is complete. in addition, we have provided in the past and may provide in the future other forms of financing to our customers or make investments in our customers' projects. these payment arrangements subject us to potential credit risk related to changes in business and economic factors affecting our customers, and certain of our customers have experienced financial difficulties (including bankruptcy) in recent years, which has impacted our ability to collect amounts owed to us. if we are unable to collect such amounts, or retain amounts paid to us, our cash flows would be reduced, and we could experience losses if those amounts exceed current allowances. business and economic factors resulting in financial difficulties (including bankruptcy) for our customers can also reduce the value of any financing or equity investment arrangements we have with our customers. the risk of loss may increase for projects where we provide services and make a financing or equity investment. losses experienced as a result of these credit and investment risks could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks associated with operating in international markets and u.s. territories could restrict our ability to expand globally and harm our business and prospects. our overall business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows can be negatively impacted by our activities and operations outside the continental united states, including our international operations and operations in u.s. territories. although these operations are presently conducted primarily in canada, australia and latin america, we also perform work in other foreign countries and u.s. territories and the number of locations we perform work in could increase in the future. changes in economic conditions, including those resulting from wars and other conflicts, civil unrest, public health crises, such as the recent coronavirus, acts of terrorism, or volatility in global markets, may adversely affect demand for our services and our customers' ability to pay for our services. in addition, at times we are paid for work outside the united states in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. such payments may exceed our local currency needs, and, in certain instances, those amounts may be subject to temporary blocking, taxes or tariffs, and we may experience difficulties if we attempt to convert such amounts to u.s. dollars. there are numerous other risks associated with operating in international markets, including, but not limited to, changes in applicable regulatory requirements; foreign currency exchange fluctuations; political, economic and social instability; expropriation or nationalization of our assets and operations; unfamiliar foreign legal systems and business practices; and complex u.s. and foreign tax regulations and other laws and international treaties. for example, as discussed in further detail in legal proceedings within note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data , the termination of a telecommunications project in peru resulted in a $79.2 million charge to earnings in the second quarter of 2019. furthermore, we may incur significant costs associated with an unsuccessful attempt to enter a new market, or we may enter a new market that ultimately proves to be unprofitable or has an otherwise adverse effect on our business. we may also incur significant costs or liabilities associated with winding down or exiting an existing market. for example, we have determined to pursue an orderly exit of our latin american operations, which could result in significant costs or asset impairments during 2020 or in subsequent years. additionally, uncertain or changing economic and political conditions may make it difficult for our clients, our vendors, and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. for example, recent changes in u.s. policies related to global trade and tariffs, as well as retaliatory trade measures implemented by other countries have resulted in uncertainty surrounding the global economy. increases in the cost of certain materials, including steel and aluminum, resulting from these and other trade policies may also impact customer spending. we cannot predict the outcome of these or other similar events, nor can we predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic recovery or downturn worldwide or within our customers' specific markets. these risks could restrict our ability to provide services to international customers, operate our international business profitably or fund our strategic objectives, which could negatively impact our overall business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates may negatively impact our financial results. the volume of services we provide internationally varies from year to year and our reported financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are exposed to the effects of fluctuating exchange rates. for the year ended december 31, 2019 , we 19 derived $1.92 billion , or 15.9% , of our consolidated revenues from foreign operations, the substantial majority of which was earned in canada and australia. the functional currencies for our foreign operations are typically the currency of the country in which the foreign operating unit is located. accordingly, our financial performance is subject to fluctuation due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. as the u.s. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, our translation of foreign currency denominated revenues or expenses will result in lower u.s. dollar denominated revenues and expenses. conversely, if the u.s. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated revenues or expenses will result in increased u.s. dollar denominated revenues and expenses. for example, during the year ended december 31, 2019 , foreign revenues decrease d by approximately $57 million in comparison with the year ended december 31, 2018 as a result of less favorable foreign currency exchange rates due primarily to the u.s. dollar strengthen ing against the canadian and australian dollars. furthermore, to the extent the volume of services we provide internationally increases, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be further exposed to the effects of fluctuating exchange rates. limitations on the availability of suppliers, subcontractors and equipment manufacturers that we depend on could adversely affect our business. we rely on suppliers to obtain the necessary materials and subcontractors to perform portions of our services. we also rely on equipment manufacturers to provide us with the equipment required to conduct our operations. limitations on the availability of suppliers, subcontractors or equipment manufacturers could negatively impact our operations, particularly in the event we rely on a single or small number of providers. the risk of a lack of available suppliers, subcontractors or equipment manufacturers can be heightened as a result of market, regulatory or economic conditions. for example, utilities in certain states, in order to receive certain funding, may expect us to engage a specified percentage of suppliers that meet diversity-ownership requirements, which can further limit our pool of available suppliers in those areas. additionally, successful completion of our contracts can depend on whether our subcontractors successfully fulfill their contractual obligations. if our subcontractors fail to perform their contractual obligations, fail to meet the expected completion dates or quality standards or fail to comply with applicable laws, we may be required to incur additional costs or provide additional services to mitigate such shortcomings. an increase in the prices of certain materials used in our business or fuel prices could adversely affect our business. under certain contracts, including where we have assumed responsibility for procuring materials for a project, we are exposed to price increases for materials such as copper and steel, which are used as components of supplies or materials utilized in all of our operations. in addition, our customers' capital budgets can be negatively impacted by an increase in prices of certain materials. prices could be materially impacted by general market conditions and other factors, including global trade relationships. for example, recent changes to u.s. policies related to global trade and tariffs, as well as retaliatory trade measures implemented by other countries, have resulted in uncertainty concerning availability and pricing of certain commodities and goods important to our and our customers' businesses, including steel and aluminum. we are also exposed to increases in energy prices, including as they relate to fuel prices for our large rolling-stock fleet of approximately 49,700 units. furthermore, some of our fixed price contracts do not allow us to adjust our prices and, as a result, increases in material or fuel costs could reduce our profitability with respect to such projects. our intellectual property rights may be unenforceable or become obsolete. we utilize a variety of intellectual property rights while performing our services. we view our portfolio of proprietary energized services tools and techniques and other process and design technologies as competitive strengths, which we believe differentiate our service offerings. we also license certain technologies from third parties, and there is a risk that our relationships with such licensors may terminate or expire or may be interrupted or harmed. we may not be able to successfully preserve these intellectual property rights in the future, and these rights could be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries in which our services may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. if we are unable to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights, or if intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings succeed against us, our ability to differentiate our service offerings could be reduced. further, if our intellectual property rights or work processes become obsolete, we may not be able to differentiate our service offerings and some of our competitors may be able to offer more attractive services to our customers, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. increasing scrutiny and changing expectations from investors and our customers with respect to our environmental, social and governance practices may impose additional costs on us or expose us to new or additional risks. investors and other interested constituencies have focused increasingly on the environmental, social and governance (esg) practices of companies. while we have programs and initiatives in place related to our esg practices, investors may decide to reallocate capital or to not commit capital as a result of their assessment of our practices. in addition, our customers may require that we implement certain additional esg procedures or standards before they will continue to do business with us. a failure to comply with investor or customer expectations and standards, which are evolving, or if we are perceived to not have responded appropriately to the growing concern for esg issues, regardless of whether there is a legal requirement to do so, could also cause 20 reputational harm to our business and could have a material adverse effect on us. in addition, organizations that provide information to investors on corporate governance and related matters have developed ratings processes for evaluating companies on their approach to esg matters, and unfavorable ratings of quanta or our industries may lead to negative investor sentiment and the diversion of investment to other companies or industries, which could have a negative impact on our stock price and our costs of capital. risks related to regulation and compliance regulatory requirements applicable to our industries and changes in current and potential legislative and regulatory initiatives may adversely affect demand for our services. because the vast majority of our revenue is derived from a few industries, the federal, state, provincial and local regulations affecting those industries, including, among other things, environmental, safety, and permitting requirements, have a material effect on our business. in recent years, our customers have faced heightened regulatory requirements and increased regulatory enforcement, which have resulted in delays, reductions in scope and cancellations of projects. furthermore, certain regulatory requirements applicable to our customers are also required of us when we contract with such customers, and our inability to meet those requirements could also result in decreased demand for our services. increased regulatory requirements have negatively impacted us and our customers and decreased demand for our services in the past, and may do so in the future, which can adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. concerns about climate-related issues could potentially result in new legislation, regulation, regulatory actions or other requirements at the local, state or federal level, any of which could negatively affect our customers and decrease demand for their services, result in increased costs associated with our operations, or impact the prices we charge our customers. for example, requirements to reduce, or taxes on the production and/or consumption of, fossil fuels could negatively impact the hydrocarbon production volumes of our customers, which could in turn negatively impact demand for our services. new regulations addressing greenhouse gas emissions from mobile sources could also significantly increase our costs in light of our large rolling-stock fleet. in addition, if our operations are perceived to result in high greenhouse gas emissions, our reputation could suffer. additionally, current and potential legislative or regulatory initiatives may not result in incremental increased demand for our services, including legislation and regulation that mandate percentages of power to be generated from renewable sources, require utilities to meet reliability standards, and encourage installation of new electric power transmission and renewable energy generation facilities. while these actions and initiatives have positively impacted demand for our services in the past, it is not certain whether they will continue to do so in the future. it is also uncertain as to whether proposed legislative initiatives that could be beneficial for our industries, including those designed to ease regulatory and permitting requirements, will be enacted. our unionized workforce and related obligations may adversely affect our operations. as of december 31, 2019 , approximately 35% of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. for a variety of reasons, our unionized workforce could adversely impact relationships with our customers and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for instance, although the majority of the collective bargaining agreements prohibit strikes and work stoppages, certain of our unionized employees have participated in strikes and work stoppages in the past, and we cannot be certain that strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the future. our ability to complete future acquisitions also could be adversely affected because of our union status, including because our union agreements may be incompatible with the union agreements of a business we want to acquire or because a business we want to acquire may not want to become affiliated with a union-based company. additionally, certain of our customers require or prefer a non-union workforce, and they may reduce the amount of work assigned to us if our non-union labor crews become unionized. our collective bargaining agreements generally require us to participate with other companies in multiemployer pension plans. to the extent a plan is underfunded, we may be subject to substantial liabilities if we withdraw or are deemed to withdraw from the plan or the plan is terminated or experiences a mass withdrawal. for example, we have been involved in several litigation matters associated with our withdrawal from the central states, southeast and southwest areas pension plan, certain of which were settled in 2017. further, special funding and operational rules are generally applicable to multiemployer plans that are classified as endangered, seriously endangered or critical status based on multiple factors (including, for example, the plan's funded percentage, cash flow position and whether it is projected to experience a minimum funding deficiency). plans in these classifications must adopt measures to improve their funded status, which may require additional contributions from employers (e.g., a surcharge on benefit contributions) and/or modifications to retiree benefits. certain plans to which we contribute or may contribute in the future are in endangered, seriously endangered or critical status, and we may be obligated to contribute material amounts to these plans in the future, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 21 we could be adversely affected by our failure to comply with the laws applicable to our foreign activities. applicable u.s. and non-u.s. anti-corruption laws, including but not limited to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa), prohibit us from, among other things, corruptly making payments to non-u.s. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. we pursue opportunities in certain parts of the world that experience government corruption, and in certain circumstances, compliance with these laws may conflict with local customs and practices. our policies mandate compliance with all applicable anti-corruption laws and our procedures and practices are designed to ensure that our employees and intermediaries comply with these laws. however, there can be no assurance that such policies, procedures and practices will protect us from liability under the fcpa or other similar laws for actions or inadvertences by our employees or intermediaries. liability for such actions or inadvertences could result in severe criminal or civil fines, penalties, forfeitures, disgorgements or other sanctions. this in turn could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. in addition, detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged violations of such laws can be expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management, in-country management, and other personnel. compliance with and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our performance. we are subject to extensive tax liabilities imposed by multiple jurisdictions, including income taxes, indirect taxes (excise/duty, sales/use, gross receipts, and value-added taxes), payroll taxes, franchise taxes, withholding taxes, and ad valorem taxes. new tax laws, treaties and regulations and changes in existing tax laws, treaties and regulations are continuously being enacted or proposed, which can result in significant changes to the tax rate on our earnings and have a material impact on our earnings and cash flows from operations. in addition, significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities, and our tax estimates and tax positions could be materially affected by many factors, including the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation, the introduction of new tax accounting standards, legislation, regulations and related interpretations, our global mix of earnings, our ability to realize deferred tax assets and changes in uncertain tax positions. a significant increase in our tax rate can have a material adverse effect on our profitability and liquidity. our failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could result in significant liabilities and increased costs. our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including those dealing with the handling and disposal of waste products, pcbs, fuel storage, water quality and air quality. we perform work in many different types of underground environments. if the field location maps supplied to us are not accurate, or if objects are present in the soil that are not indicated on the field location maps, our underground work could strike objects in the soil, some of which may contain pollutants. these objects may also rupture, resulting in the discharge of pollutants. in such circumstances, we may be liable for fines and damages, and we may be unable to obtain reimbursement from the parties providing the incorrect information. we perform work, including directional drilling, in and around environmentally sensitive areas such as rivers, lakes and wetlands. due to the inconsistent nature of the terrain and water bodies, it is possible that such work may cause the release of subsurface materials that contain contaminants in excess of amounts permitted by law, potentially exposing us to remediation costs and fines. we also own and lease facilities that contain above- and below-ground fuel storage tanks. if these tanks were to leak, we could be responsible for remediation costs and fines. the obligations, liabilities, fines and costs associated with these and other events can be material and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. moreover, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or leaks, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur significant costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities. in certain instances, we have obtained indemnification and other rights from third parties (including predecessors or lessors) for such obligations and liabilities; however, these indemnities may not cover all of our costs and indemnitors may not pay amounts owed to us. further, in connection with an acquisition, we cannot be certain that we identify all potential environmental liabilities relating to any acquired business when we are negotiating an indemnification right. certain regulatory requirements applicable to us and certain of our subsidiaries could materially impact our business. we are subject to various specific regulatory regimes and requirements that could result in significant compliance costs and liabilities. as a public company, we are subject to the corporate governance and financial reporting requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, including requirements for management to report on our internal controls over financial reporting and for our independent registered public accounting firm to express an opinion on the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. our internal controls over financial reporting was effective as of december 31, 2019 ; however, there can be no assurance that our internal controls over financial reporting will be determined to be effective in future years. failure to maintain effective internal controls or to identify significant internal control deficiencies in acquired businesses (both prior acquisitions and future acquisitions) could result in a decrease in the market value of our publicly traded securities, a reduced ability to obtain debt and equity financing, a loss of customers, fines or penalties, and/or additional expenditures to meet the requirements or remedy any deficiencies. 22 one of our subsidiaries has registered as an investment adviser with the sec under the u.s. investment advisers act of 1940, as amended (the advisers act). the advisers act and the rules promulgated thereunder impose substantive and material restrictions and requirements on the operations of this subsidiary, including certain fiduciary duties that apply to its relationships with its advisory clients. the sec has broad administrative powers to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations of the advisers act, ranging from fines and censures to termination of an adviser's registration. this subsidiary is also subject to periodic sec examinations and other requirements, including, among other things, maintaining an effective compliance program, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, disclosure requirements and complying with anti-fraud prohibitions. the failure of our subsidiary to comply with the requirements of the advisers act could result in fines, suspensions of individual employees or other sanctions against our subsidiary that could have a material adverse effect on us. even if an investigation or proceeding does not result in a fine or sanction or if a fine or sanction imposed against our subsidiary or its employees were small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity relating to an investigation, proceeding or imposition of these fines or sanctions could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on us. our wholly-owned captive insurance company is a registered insurance broker with the texas department of insurance, and therefore is subject to various rules and regulations and required to meet certain capital requirements, which can result in additional use of our resources. we own and operate a postsecondary educational institution that specializes in pre-apprenticeship training, apprenticeship training and specialized utility task training for electric workers, as well as training for the pipeline and industrial and communications industries. in order to operate, each of the institution's campuses must be authorized by the state education agency where the campus is located, and the level of regulatory oversight varies substantially by state and can be extensive. if any of our campuses fail to comply with state licensing requirements, they may be unable to offer their programs and forced to close, which could result in harm to our reputation or negatively impact our ability to train skilled personnel that can be utilized to support our industry. additionally, because our institution operates in a highly regulated industry, it is subject to compliance reviews and lawsuits or claims by government agencies and third parties. if the results of these reviews or proceedings are unfavorable to us, we may be required to pay significant monetary damages or be subject to fines, limitations on the operations of the institution, injunctions or other penalties. the postsecondary educational institution is also accredited by the accrediting commission of career schools and colleges. loss of accreditation could result in reputational harm or student-initiated litigation or negatively impact our ability to train skilled personnel that can be utilized to support our business. we collect and retain information about our customers, stockholders, vendors and employees. new legislation and regulatory requirements, as well as contractual commitments, affect how we must store, use, transfer and process the confidential information of our employees, customers, vendors and stockholders. for example, the california consumer privacy act (the ccpa) was signed into law in 2018 and largely took effect in january 2020. the ccpa, among other things, contains new disclosure obligations for businesses that collect personal information about california residents and enhanced consumer protections for those individuals, and provides for statutory fines for data security breaches or other ccpa violations. meanwhile, over fifteen other states have considered privacy laws like the ccpa. these laws, as well as other new or changing legislative, regulatory or contractual requirements concerning data privacy and protection, could require us to expend significant additional compliance costs, and any failure to comply with such requirements can result in significant liability or harm to our reputation. opportunities within the government arena could subject us to increased regulation and costs and may pose additional risks relating to future funding and compliance. most government contracts are awarded through a regulated competitive bidding process, which can often be more time consuming than the bidding process for non-governmental projects. additionally, involvement with government contracts could require a significant amount of costs to be incurred before any revenues are realized. we are also subject to numerous procurement rules and other public sector regulations when we contract with certain governmental agencies, any deemed violation of which could lead to fines or penalties or a loss of business. government agencies routinely audit and investigate government contractors. government agencies may review a contractor's performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. if a government agency determines that costs were improperly allocated to specific contracts, such costs will not be reimbursed or a refund of previously reimbursed costs may be required. if a government agency alleges or proves improper activity, civil and criminal penalties could be imposed and serious reputational harm could result. many government contracts must be appropriated each year, and without re-appropriation we would not realize all of the potential revenues from any awarded contracts. additionally, u.s. government shutdowns or any related under-staffing of the government departments or agencies that interact with our business could result in program cancellations, disruptions and/or stop work orders, could limit the government's ability to effectively progress programs and make timely payments, and could limit our ability to perform on our existing u.s. government contracts and successfully compete for new work. 23 immigration laws, including our inability to verify employment eligibility and restrictions on movement of our foreign employees, could adversely affect our business or reputation. we employ a significant number of employees, and while we utilize processes to assist in verifying the employment eligibility of potential new employees so that we maintain compliance with applicable laws, it is possible some of our employees may be unauthorized workers. in addition, we utilize certain non-immigrant visas to allow us to temporarily transfer certain of our foreign employees to the united states. the employment of unauthorized workers or failure to comply with the requirements of these non-immigrant visas could subject us to fines, penalties and other costs, as well as result in adverse publicity that negatively impacts our reputation and brand and may make it more difficult to hire and retain qualified employees. furthermore, to the extent we are subject to penalties that prevent the future transfer of our foreign employees to the united states, we may incur additional costs to hire and train new employees. immigration laws have also been an area of considerable political focus in recent years, and, from time-to-time, the u.s. government considers or implements changes to federal immigration laws, regulations or enforcement programs. changes in immigration or work authorization laws may increase our obligations for compliance and oversight, which could subject us to additional costs and potential liability and make our hiring and employee transfer processes more cumbersome, or reduce the availability of potential employees. we may incur additional healthcare costs . the costs of employee health care insurance in the u.s. has increased in recent years due to rising health care costs, legislative changes, and general economic conditions. we cannot predict what other health care legislation or regulations will be implemented at the federal or state level, including whether the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 will be repealed and/or replaced, or the impact of any such future legislation or regulations. a continued increase in health care costs or related costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks related to financing our business we may not have access in the future to sufficient funding to finance desired growth and operations. if we cannot secure future funds or financing on acceptable terms or generate sufficient cash flow, we may be unable to support our future operations or growth strategy. the timing of our funding needs and the size of our operations and strategic initiatives that require capital cannot be readily predicted and may be substantial. the use of cash on hand, cash from operations and cash from our senior secured credit facility to fund these initiatives can limit our financial flexibility and increase our need to seek capital through additional debt or equity financings. we also rely on financing companies to fund the leasing of certain of our equipment, and credit market conditions may restrict access to capital for the leasing of additional equipment. a lack of available capital to fund the leasing of equipment could negatively impact our future operations. the credit agreement for our senior secured credit facility contains certain restrictions, including financial covenants and other restrictions on our ability to borrow amounts under the agreement and limitations on our ability to incur additional debt or conduct certain types of preferred equity financings. our ability to increase the current commitments under our senior secured credit facility is also dependent upon additional commitments from our lenders. furthermore, if we are permitted to seek additional debt or equity financings, we cannot be certain they will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all, as banks are often restrictive in their lending practices, and additional debt financing may include covenants that further limit our operational and financial flexibility. if we are unable to borrow under our senior secured credit facility or secure other financing or if our lenders become unable or unwilling to fund their commitments to us, we may not be able to access the capital needed to fund our growth and operations. for additional information on the terms of our senior secured credit facility, please read item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - debt instruments - credit facility. additionally, the market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past, and may fluctuate significantly in the future, in response to various factors, including events beyond our control, which could impact our ability to utilize capital markets to obtain funds. a variety of events may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly, including overall market conditions or volatility, actual or perceived negative financial results or other unfavorable information relating to us or our market peers, and the other risks described in this annual report. our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk. borrowings under our credit facility are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. if interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness will increase even if the amount borrowed remains the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease. our weighted average interest rate on our variable rate debt for the year ended december 31, 2019 was 3.8% . the annual effect on our pretax earnings of a hypothetical 50 basis point increase or decrease in variable interest rates would be approximately $6.7 million based on our december 31, 2019 balance of variable rate debt. 24 additionally, to address the transition in financial markets away from the london interest bank offered rate (libor) by the end of 2021, our senior secured credit facility agreement includes provisions related to the replacement of libor with a libor successor rate (as defined in the credit agreement for such facility). changing to an alternative interest rate may lead to additional volatility in interest rates and could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. if no libor successor rate has been determined at the time certain circumstances are present, the lenders' obligation to make or maintain loans based on a eurocurrency rate could be suspended, and loans in u.s. dollars would default to the base rate (as described in senior secured credit facility within note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data ) rather than a rate using the eurocurrency rate. if this were to occur, our available liquidity and cash flows could be negatively impacted. we may be unable to compete for certain projects if we are not able to obtain surety bonds, letters of credit or bank guarantees. a portion of our business depends on our ability to provide surety bonds, letters of credit, bank guarantees or other financial assurances. current or future market conditions, including losses incurred in the construction industry or as a result of large corporate bankruptcies, as well as changes in our sureties' assessment of our operating and financial risk, could cause our surety providers and lenders to decline to issue or renew, or substantially reduce the amount of, bid or performance bonds for our work and could increase our costs associated with collateral. these actions could be taken on short notice. if our surety providers or lenders were to limit or eliminate our access to bonding, letters of credit or guarantees, our alternatives would include seeking capacity from other sureties and lenders or finding more business that does not require bonds or that allows for other forms of collateral for project performance, such as cash. we may be unable to secure these alternatives in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all, which could affect our ability to bid for or work on future projects requiring financial assurances. we have also granted security interests in certain assets to collateralize our obligations to our sureties and lenders. furthermore, under standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue or continue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing or renewing bonds. if we were to experience an interruption or reduction in the availability of bonding capacity as a result of these or other reasons, we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects that require bonding. our ability to access capital markets could be limited. from time to time, we may need to access capital markets to obtain financing. our ability to access capital markets for financing could be limited by, among other things, our existing capital structure, our credit ratings, the state of the economy, the health of our industries, and the liquidity of the capital markets. many of the factors that affect our ability to access capital markets are outside of our control. no assurance can be given that we will be able to access capital markets on terms acceptable to us when required to do so, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. risks related to our common stock our sale or issuance of additional common stock or other equity-related securities could dilute each stockholder's ownership interest or adversely affect the market price of our common stock. we often fund a significant portion of the consideration paid in connection with our acquisitions with the issuance of additional equity securities, including contingent consideration amounts payable if acquired businesses achieve certain performance objectives during specified post-acquisition periods. we also utilize stock-based compensation as a key component of our compensation program. we expect to issue additional equity securities in the future in connection with these and other practices. our restated certificate of incorporation provides that we may issue up to 600,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 142,324,318 shares were outstanding as of december 31, 2019 . any additional issuances of common stock would have the effect of diluting our earnings per share and our existing stockholders' individual ownership percentages and lead to volatility in the market price of our common stock. we cannot predict the effect that future issuances of our common stock or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of our common stock. there can be no assurance that we will declare or pay future dividends on our common stock. the declaration, amount and timing of future dividends are subject to capital availability and determinations by our board of directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all respective laws and applicable agreements. our ability to declare and pay dividends will depend upon, among other factors, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, current and anticipated expansion plans, requirements under delaware law and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. a reduction in or elimination of our dividend payments could have a material negative effect on our stock price. 25 certain provisions of our corporate governing documents could make an acquisition of our company more difficult. the following provisions of our charter documents, as currently in effect, and delaware law could discourage potential proposals to acquire us, delay or prevent a change in control of us or limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock: our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to issue blank check preferred stock and to adopt amendments to our bylaws; our bylaws contain restrictions regarding the right of stockholders to nominate directors and to submit proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings; our certificate of incorporation and bylaws restrict the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to act by written consent; and we are subject to provisions of delaware law which restrict us from engaging in any of a broad range of business transactions with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date such stockholder became classified as an interested stockholder. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 54 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary exposure to market risk relates to unfavorable changes in concentration of credit risk, interest rates and currency exchange rates. credit risk. we are subject to concentrations of credit risk related to our cash and cash equivalents and net receivable position with customers, which includes amounts related to billed and unbilled accounts receivable and contract assets net of advanced billings with the same customer. substantially all of our cash and cash equivalents are managed by what we believe to be high credit quality financial institutions. in accordance with our investment policies, these institutions are authorized to invest cash and cash equivalents in a diversified portfolio of what we believe to be high-quality investments, which primarily include interest-bearing demand deposits, money market investments and money market mutual funds. although we do not currently believe the principal amounts of these cash and cash equivalents are subject to any material risk of loss, changes in economic conditions could impact the interest income we receive from these investments. in addition, we grant credit under normal payment terms, generally without collateral; and therefore, are subject to potential credit risk related to our customers' inability to pay for services provided. for example, in january 2019 one of our largest customers, pg&amp;e, filed for bankruptcy protection under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code, as amended. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations concentration of credit risk for additional information regarding our pre-petition receivables and this bankruptcy matter. furthermore, the risk of nonpayment may be heightened as a result of depressed economic and financial market conditions. we believe the concentration of credit risk related to billed and unbilled receivables and contract assets is limited because of the diversity of our customers, and we perform ongoing credit risk assessments of our customers and financial institutions and in some cases obtain collateral or other security from our customers. interest rate risk. as of december 31, 2019 , we had no derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate risk. as such, we were exposed to earnings and fair value risk due to changes in interest rates with respect to our long-term obligations. as of december 31, 2019 , the fair value of our variable rate debt of $1.35 billion approximated book value. our weighted average interest rate on our variable rate debt for the year ended december 31, 2019 was 3.8% . the annual effect on our pretax earnings of a hypothetical 50 basis point increase or decrease in variable interest rates would be approximately $6.7 million based on our december 31, 2019 balance of variable rate debt. foreign currency risk. the u.s. dollar is the functional currency for the majority of our operations, which are primarily located within the united states. the functional currency for our foreign operations, which are primarily located in canada and australia, is typically the currency of the country in which the foreign operating unit is located. accordingly, our financial performance is subject to fluctuation due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. during 2019 , revenues from our foreign operations accounted for 15.9% of our consolidated revenues. fluctuations in foreign exchange rates during the year ended december 31, 2019 caused a decrease of approximately $57 million in foreign revenues compared to the year ended december 31, 2018 . fluctuations in foreign exchange rates during the year ended december 31, 2018 caused a decrease of approximately $18 million in foreign revenues compared to the year ended december 31, 2017 . we are also subject to foreign currency risk with respect to sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies of our operating units. to minimize the risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we may enter into foreign currency derivative contracts to hedge our foreign currency risk on a cash flow basis. there were no outstanding foreign currency derivative contracts at december 31, 2019 . we also have foreign exchange risk related to cash and cash equivalents in foreign banks. based on the balance of cash and cash equivalents in foreign banks of $34.0 million as of december 31, 2019 , an assumed 5% adverse change to foreign exchange rates would result in a decline in cash of $1.5 million . 54risk factors 13 risk factors for additional information. customers, strategic alliances and preferred provider relationships our customers include electric power, natural gas and oil pipeline and telecommunications companies, as well as commercial, industrial and governmental entities. we have a large and diverse customer base, including many of the leading companies in the industries we serve. our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 36% of our consolidated revenues during the year ended december 31, 2011. our largest customer accounted for approximately 9.2% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended december 31, 2011. although we have a centralized marketing and business development strategy, management at each of our operating units is responsible for developing and maintaining successful long-term relationships with customers. our operating unit management teams build upon existing customer relationships to secure additional projects and increase revenue from our current customer base. many of these customer relationships originated decades ago and are maintained through a partnering approach to account management that includes project evaluation and consulting, quality performance, performance measurement and direct customer contact. additionally, operating unit management focuses on pursuing growth opportunities with prospective new customers. we encourage operating unit management to cross-sell services of our other operating units to their customers and to coordinate with our other operating units to pursue projects, especially those that are larger and more complicated. our business development group supports the operating units activities by promoting and marketing our services for existing and prospective large national accounts, as well as projects that would require services from multiple operating units. we are a preferred vendor to many of our customers. as a preferred vendor, we have met minimum standards for a specific category of service, maintained a high level of performance and agreed to certain payment terms and negotiated rates. we strive to maintain preferred vendor status as we believe it provides us an advantage in the award of future work for the applicable customer. we believe that our strategic relationships with customers in the electric power, natural gas, oil and telecommunications industries will continue to result in future opportunities. many of these relationships take the 7 table of contents form of strategic alliance or long-term maintenance agreements. strategic alliance agreements generally state an intention to work together over a period of time and/or on specific types of projects, and many provide us with preferential bidding procedures. strategic alliances and long-term maintenance agreements are typically agreements for an initial term of approximately two to four years that may include renewal options to extend the initial term. backlog backlog represents the amount of revenue that we expect to realize from work to be performed in the future on uncompleted contracts, including new contractual agreements on which work has not begun. our backlog includes estimates of revenues to be realized under long-term maintenance contracts in addition to construction contracts. we determine the amount of backlog for work under long-term maintenance contracts, or master service agreements (msas), by using recurring historical trends inherent in the current msas, factoring in seasonal demand and projected customer needs based upon ongoing communications with the customer. the following tables present our total backlog by reportable segment as of december 31, 2011 and 2010, along with an estimate of the backlog amounts expected to be realized within 12 months of each balance sheet date (in thousands): backlog as of december 31, 2011 backlog as of december 31, 2010 12 month total 12 month total electric power infrastructure services $ 2,365,531 $ 4,959,964 $ 1,798,284 $ 4,473,425 natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services 768,152 1,347,173 743,970 1,026,937 telecommunications infrastructure services 336,030 529,589 228,549 415,460 fiber optic licensing 102,773 402,007 98,792 402,299 total $ 3,572,486 $ 7,238,733 $ 2,869,595 $ 6,318,121 as discussed above, our backlog includes estimates of revenues to be realized under msas. generally, our customers are not contractually committed to specific volumes of services under our msas, and many of our contracts may be terminated with notice, typically 30 to 90 days, even if we are not in default under the contract. there can be no assurance as to our customers requirements or that our estimates are accurate. in addition, many of our msas, as well as contracts for fiber optic licensing, are subject to renewal options. for purposes of calculating backlog, we have included future renewal options only to the extent the renewals can reasonably be expected to occur. projects included in backlog can be subject to delays as a result of commercial issues, regulatory requirements, adverse weather and other factors, which could cause revenue amounts to be realized in periods later than originally expected. competition the markets in which we operate are highly competitive. we compete with other contractors in most of the geographic markets in which we operate, and several of our competitors are large companies that have significant financial, technical and marketing resources. in addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry into some of the industries in which we operate and, as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become a competitor. a significant portion of our revenues is currently derived from unit price or fixed price agreements, and price is often an important factor in the award of such agreements. accordingly, we could be underbid by our competitors in an effort by them to procure such business. economic conditions have increased the impacts of competitive pricing in certain of the markets that we serve. we believe that as demand for our services increases, customers will increasingly consider other factors in choosing a service provider, including technical expertise and experience, financial and operational resources, nationwide presence, industry reputation and dependability, which we expect to benefit larger contractors such as us. in addition, competition may lessen as industry resources, such as labor supplies, approach capacity. there can be no 8 table of contents assurance, however, that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services, or that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position. we also face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers, including electric power, natural gas and pipeline, telecommunications and engineering companies, which employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services as those provided by us. although a significant portion of these services is currently outsourced by many of our customers, in particular services relating to larger energy transmission infrastructure projects, there can be no assurance that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource services in the future. employees as of december 31, 2011, we had approximately 2,300 salaried employees, including executive officers, professional and administrative staff, project managers and engineers, job superintendents and clerical personnel, and approximately 15,200 hourly employees, the number of which fluctuates depending upon the number and size of the projects we undertake at any particular time. approximately 48% of our hourly employees at december 31, 2011 were covered by collective bargaining agreements, primarily with the international brotherhood of electrical workers (ibew), the canadian union skilled workers (cusw) and the four pipeline construction trade unions administered by the pipe line contractors association (plca), which are the laborers international union of north america, international brotherhood of teamsters (teamsters), united association of plumbers and pipefitters and the international union of operating engineers. these collective bargaining agreements require the payment of specified wages to our union employees, the observance of certain workplace rules and the payment of certain amounts to multi-employer pension plans and employee benefit trusts rather than administering the funds on behalf of these employees. these collective bargaining agreements have varying terms and expiration dates. the majority of the collective bargaining agreements contain provisions that prohibit work stoppages or strikes, even during specified negotiation periods relating to agreement renewal, and provide for binding arbitration dispute resolution in the event of prolonged disagreement. in january 2012, a strike by the teamsters occurred that affected one of quanta operating units, as well as other plca members. the strike lasted ten days and arose from disputes between the plca and the teamsters over pension plan obligations included in a collective bargaining agreement (to which the quanta operating unit is a party) under negotiation at the time. negotiations on the agreement stalled, resulting in the strike. other unions supported the strike by the teamsters and did not work during the strike period. the disputes have been effectively resolved and the collective bargaining agreement has been extended, but is still under negotiation. we believe that further strikes can be averted as negotiations continue. we provide health, welfare and benefit plans for employees who are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. we have a 401(k) plan pursuant to which eligible employees who are not provided retirement benefits through a collective bargaining agreement may make contributions through a payroll deduction. we make matching cash contributions of 100% of each employee contribution up to 3% of that employee salary and 50% of each employee contribution between 3% and 6% of such employee salary, up to the maximum amount permitted by law. our industry is experiencing a shortage of journeyman linemen in certain geographic areas. in response to the shortage and to attract qualified employees, we utilize various ibew and national electrical contractors association (neca) training programs and support the joint ibew/neca apprenticeship program which trains qualified electrical workers. certain of our canadian operations also support the cusw apprenticeship programs for training construction and maintenance electricians and powerline technicians. we have also established apprenticeship training programs approved by the u.s. department of labor for employees not subject to the ibew/neca apprenticeship program, as well as additional company-wide and project-specific employee training and educational programs. we believe our relationships with our employees and union representatives are good. 9 table of contents materials our customers typically supply most or all of the materials required for each job. however, for some of our contracts, we may procure all or part of the materials required. we purchase such materials from a variety of sources and do not anticipate experiencing any significant difficulties in procuring such materials. training, quality assurance and safety performance of our services requires the use of equipment and exposure to conditions that can be dangerous. although we are committed to a policy of operating safely and prudently, we have been and will continue to be subject to claims by employees, customers and third parties for property damage and personal injuries resulting from performance of our services. our operating units have established comprehensive safety policies, procedures and regulations and require that employees complete prescribed training and service programs prior to performing more sophisticated and technical jobs, which is in addition to those programs required, if applicable, by the ibew/neca apprenticeship program, the training programs sponsored by the four trade unions administered by the plca, the apprenticeship training programs sponsored by the cusw or our equivalent programs. under the ibew/neca apprenticeship program, all journeyman linemen are required to complete a minimum of 7,000 hours of on-the-job training, approximately 200 hours of classroom education and extensive testing and certification. certain of our operating units have established apprenticeship training programs approved by the u.s. department of labor that prescribe equivalent training requirements for employees who are not otherwise subject to the requirements of the ibew/neca apprenticeship program. similarly, the cusw offers apprenticeship training for construction and maintenance electricians that requires five terms of 1,700 hours each, combining classroom and on-the-job training, as well as training for powerline technicians that also involves classroom and jobsite training over a four-year period. in addition, the laborers international union of north america, international brotherhood of teamsters, united association of plumbers and pipefitters and the international union of operating engineers have training programs specifically designed for developing and improving the skills of their members who work in the pipeline construction industry. our operating units also benefit from sharing best practices regarding their training and educational programs and comprehensive safety policies and regulations. regulation our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws and regulations including: licensing, permitting and inspection requirements applicable to contractors, electricians and engineers; regulations relating to worker safety and environmental protection; permitting and inspection requirements applicable to construction projects; wage and hour regulations; regulations relating to transportation of equipment and materials, including licensing and permitting requirements; building and electrical codes; telecommunications regulations relating to our fiber optic licensing business; and special bidding, procurement and other requirements on government projects. we believe that we have all the licenses required to conduct our operations and that we are in substantial compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating licenses, as well as give rise to termination or cancellation rights under our contracts or disqualify us from future bidding opportunities. 10 table of contents environmental matters and climate change impacts we are committed to the protection of the environment and train our employees to perform their duties accordingly. we are subject to numerous federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations governing our operations, including the handling, transportation and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous substances and wastes, as well as emissions and discharges into the environment, including discharges to air, surface water, groundwater and soil. we also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and cleanup responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. under certain of these laws and regulations, such liabilities can be imposed for cleanup of previously owned or operated properties, or properties to which hazardous substances or wastes were sent by current or former operations at our facilities, regardless of whether we directly caused the contamination or violated any law at the time of discharge or disposal. the presence of contamination from such substances or wastes could interfere with ongoing operations or adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or use our properties as collateral for financing. in addition, we could be held liable for significant penalties and damages under certain environmental laws and regulations and also could be subject to a revocation of our licenses or permits, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. our contracts with our customers may also impose liabilities on us regarding environmental issues that arise through the performance of our services. from time to time, we may incur costs and obligations for correcting environmental noncompliance matters and for remediation at or relating to certain of our properties. we believe that we are in substantial compliance with our environmental obligations to date and that any such obligations will not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial performance. the potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain. climate change may result in, among other things, changes in rainfall patterns, storm patterns and intensities and temperature levels. as discussed elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k, including in item 1a. risk factors , our operating results are significantly influenced by weather. therefore, significant changes in historical weather patterns could significantly impact our future operating results. for example, if climate change results in drier weather and more accommodating temperatures over a greater period of time in a given period, we may be able to increase our productivity, which could have a positive impact on our revenues and gross margins. in addition, if climate change results in an increase in severe weather, such as hurricanes and ice storms, we could experience a greater amount of higher margin emergency restoration service work, which generally has a positive impact on our gross margins. conversely, if climate change results in a greater amount of rainfall, snow, ice or other less accommodating weather conditions in a given period, we could experience reduced productivity, which could negatively impact our revenues and gross margins. risk management and insurance we are insured for employer liability, general liability, auto liability and workers compensation claims. since august 1, 2009, all policy deductible levels are $5.0 million per occurrence, other than employer liability, which is subject to a deductible of $1.0 million. we also have employee healthcare benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $350,000 per claimant per year. for the policy year ended july 31, 2009, employer liability claims were subject to a deductible of $1.0 million per occurrence, general liability and auto liability claims were subject to a deductible of $3.0 million per occurrence, and workers compensation claims were subject to a deductible of $2.0 million per occurrence. additionally, for the policy year ended july 31, 2009, our workers compensation claims were subject to an annual cumulative aggregate liability of up to $1.0 million on claims in excess of $2.0 million per occurrence. our deductibles were generally lower in periods prior to august 1, 2008. losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimate of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. these insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the 11 table of contents number of incidents not reported. the accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals are adequate. as of december 31, 2011 and 2010, the gross amount accrued for insurance claims totaled $201.2 million and $216.8 million, with $155.4 million and $164.3 million considered to be long-term and included in other non-current liabilities. related insurance recoveries/receivables as of december 31, 2011 and 2010 were $63.1 million and $66.3 million, of which $9.8 million and $9.4 million are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $53.3 million and $56.9 million are included in other assets, net. we renew our insurance policies on an annual basis, and therefore deductibles and levels of insurance coverage may change in future periods. in addition, insurers may cancel our coverage or determine to exclude certain items from coverage, or we may elect not to obtain certain types or incremental levels of insurance if we believe that the cost to obtain such coverage is too high for the additional benefit obtained. in any such event, our overall risk exposure would increase, which could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. seasonality and cyclicality our revenues and results of operations can be subject to seasonal and other variations. these variations are influenced by weather, customer spending patterns, bidding seasons, project timing and schedules, and holidays. typically, our revenues are lowest in the first quarter of the year because cold, snowy or wet conditions cause delays in projects. second quarter revenues are typically better than the first, as some projects begin, but continued cold and wet weather can often impact second quarter productivity. third quarter revenues are typically the best of the year, as a greater number of projects are underway and weather is more accommodating to work on projects. generally, revenues during the fourth quarter of the year are lower than the third quarter but higher than the second quarter. many projects are completed in the fourth quarter, and revenues are often impacted positively by customers seeking to spend their capital budgets before the end of the year; however, the holiday season and inclement weather sometimes can cause delays, reducing revenues and increasing costs. any quarter may be positively or negatively affected by atypical weather patterns in a given part of the country, such as severe weather, excessive rainfall or warmer winter weather, making it difficult to predict these variations and their effect on particular projects quarter to quarter. additionally, our industry can be highly cyclical. as a result, our volume of business may be adversely affected by declines or delays in new projects in various geographic regions in the united states and canada. project schedules, in particular in connection with larger, longer-term projects, can also create fluctuations in the services provided, which may adversely affect us in a given period. the financial condition of our customers and their access to capital, variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular period, regional, national and global economic and market conditions, timing of acquisitions, the timing and magnitude of acquisition and integration costs associated with acquisitions and interest rate fluctuations are examples of items that may also materially affect quarterly results. accordingly, our operating results in any particular period may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other period. you should read outlook and understanding margins included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for additional discussion of trends and challenges that may affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. website access and other information our website address is www.quantaservices.com. you may obtain free electronic copies of our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to these reports through our website under the heading investors &amp; media/sec filings or through the website of the securities and exchange commission (the sec) at www.sec.gov. these reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the sec. in addition, our corporate governance guidelines, code of ethics and business conduct and the charters of each of our 12 table of contents audit committee, compensation committee and governance and nominating committee are posted on our website under the heading investors &amp; media/corporate governance. we intend to disclose on our website any amendments or waivers to our code of ethics and business conduct that are required to be disclosed pursuant to item 5.05 of form 8-k. you may obtain free copies of these items from our website. we will make available to any stockholder, without charge, copies of our annual report on form 10-k as filed with the sec. for copies of this or any other quanta publication, stockholders may submit a request in writing to quanta services, inc., attn: corporate secretary, 2800 post oak blvd., suite 2600, houston, tx 77056, or by phone at 713-629-7600. this annual report on form 10-k and our website contain information provided by other sources that we believe are reliable. we cannot assure you that the information obtained from other sources is accurate or complete. no information on our website is incorporated by reference herein. item 1a. risk factors our business is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described below. the matters described below are not the only risks and uncertainties facing our company. additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below also may impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected and we may not be able to achieve our goals or expectations. this annual report on form 10-k also includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended as forward-looking statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and should be read in conjunction with the section entitled uncertainty of forward-looking statements and information included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. our business can be highly cyclical and subject to seasonal and other variations that can result in significant differences in operating results from quarter to quarter. for example, we typically experience lower gross and operating margins during winter months due to lower demand for our services and more difficult operating conditions. additionally, our quarterly results may be materially and adversely affected by: permitting, regulatory or customer-caused delays on projects; adverse weather conditions; variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular quarter; unfavorable regional, national or global economic and market conditions; a reduction in the demand for our services; the budgetary spending patterns of customers and federal, state and local governments; increases in construction and design costs; the timing and volume of work we perform; the magnitude of work performed under change orders and the timing of their recognition; liabilities associated with pension plans in which our employees participate or withdrawals therefrom; changes in accounting pronouncements that require us to account for items differently than historical pronouncements have; losses experienced in our operations not otherwise covered by insurance; a change in the mix of our customers, contracts and business; payment risk associated with the financial condition of our customers; 13 table of contents the termination or expiration of existing agreements; pricing pressures resulting from competition; changes in bonding and lien requirements applicable to existing and new agreements; implementation of various information systems, which could temporarily disrupt day-to-day operations; the recognition of tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions; costs we incur to support growth internally or through acquisitions or otherwise; the timing and integration of acquisitions and the magnitude of the related acquisition and integration costs; and the timing and significance of potential impairments of long-lived assets, equity or other investments, goodwill or other intangible assets. accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other quarter or for the entire year. negative economic and market conditions may adversely impact our customers future spending as well as payment for our services and, as a result, our operations and growth. the economy is still recovering from the recession in 2008 and 2009, and economic growth remains slow. the financial markets also have not fully recovered. it is uncertain when these conditions will significantly improve. stagnant or declining economic conditions have adversely impacted the demand for our services in the past and resulted in the delay, reduction or cancellation of certain projects and may continue to adversely affect us in the future. additionally, many of our customers finance their projects through the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. the availability of credit remains constrained, and many of our customers equity values have not fully recovered from the negative impact of the recession. a reduction in cash flow or the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may continue to result in a reduction in our customers spending for our services and may also impact the ability of our customers to pay amounts owed to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our ability to grow at historical levels. regulatory and environmental requirements and economic conditions affecting any of the industries we serve may lead to less demand for our services. because the vast majority of our revenue is derived from a few industries, regulatory and environmental requirements or a downturn in economic conditions affecting any of those industries would adversely affect our results of operations. customers in the industries we serve face stringent regulatory and environmental requirements and permitting processes as they implement plans for their projects, resulting in delays, reductions and cancellations of some of their projects. additionally, unfavorable economic conditions in any industry we serve could result in the delay, reduction or cancellation of projects by our customers as well as cause our customers to outsource less work. these regulatory and economic factors have resulted in decreased demand for our services in the past, and they may continue to do so in the future, potentially impacting our operations and our ability to grow at historical levels. a number of other factors, including financing conditions and potential bankruptcies in the industries we serve or a prolonged economic downturn or recession, could adversely affect our customers and their ability or willingness to fund capital expenditures in the future or pay for past services. consolidation, competition, capital constraints or negative economic conditions in the electric power, natural gas, oil and telecommunications industries may also result in reduced spending by, or the loss of, one or more of our customers. 14 table of contents project performance issues, including those caused by third parties, or certain contractual obligations may result in additional costs to us, reductions or delays in revenues or the payment of liquidated damages. many projects involve challenging engineering, procurement and construction phases that may occur over extended time periods, sometimes over several years. we may encounter difficulties as a result of delays in designs, engineering information or materials provided by the customer or a third party, delays or difficulties in equipment and material delivery, schedule changes, delays from our customer failure to timely obtain permits or rights-of-way or meet other regulatory requirements, weather-related delays and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, that impact our ability to complete the project in accordance with the original delivery schedule. in addition, we occasionally contract with third-party subcontractors to assist us with the completion of contracts. any delay or failure by suppliers or by subcontractors in the completion of their portion of the project may result in delays in the overall progress of the project or may cause us to incur additional costs, or both. we also may encounter project delays due to local opposition, which may include injunctive actions as well as public protests, to the siting of electric power, natural gas or oil transmission lines, solar or wind projects, or other facilities. delays and additional costs may be substantial and, in some cases, we may be required to compensate the customer for such delays. we may not be able to recover all of such costs. in certain circumstances, we guarantee project completion by a scheduled acceptance date or achievement of certain acceptance and performance testing levels. failure to meet any of our schedules or performance requirements could also result in additional costs or penalties, including liquidated damages, and such amounts could exceed expected project profit. in extreme cases, the above-mentioned factors could cause project cancellations, and we may not be able to replace such projects with similar projects or at all. such delays or cancellations may impact our reputation or relationships with customers, adversely affecting our ability to secure new contracts. our customers may change or delay various elements of the project after its commencement or the project schedule or the design, engineering information, equipment or materials that are to be provided by the customer or other parties may be deficient or delivered later than required by the project schedule, resulting in additional direct or indirect costs. under these circumstances, we generally negotiate with the customer with respect to the amount of additional time required and the compensation to be paid to us. we are subject to the risk that we may be unable to obtain, through negotiation, arbitration, litigation or otherwise, adequate amounts to compensate us for the additional work or expenses incurred by us due to customer-requested change orders or failure by the customer to timely deliver items, such as engineering drawings or materials, required to be provided by the customer. litigation or arbitration of claims for compensation may be lengthy and costly, and it is often difficult to predict when and for how much the claims will be resolved. a failure to obtain adequate compensation for these matters could require us to record a reduction to amounts of revenue and gross profit recognized in prior periods under the percentage-of-completion accounting method. any such adjustments could be substantial. we may also be required to invest significant working capital to fund cost overruns while the resolution of claims is pending, which could adversely affect liquidity and financial results in any given period. our business is labor intensive, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees. our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability will be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy. for instance, we may experience shortages of qualified journeyman linemen, who are integral to the provision of transmission and distribution services under our electric power infrastructure services segment. in addition, in our natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services segment, there is limited availability of experienced supervisors and foremen that can oversee large transmission pipeline projects. a shortage in the supply of these skilled personnel creates competitive hiring markets and may result in increased labor expenses. labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues or profitability. 15 table of contents our use of fixed price contracts could adversely affect our business and results of operations. we currently generate a portion of our revenues under fixed price contracts. we also expect to generate a greater portion of our revenues under this type of contract in the future as larger projects, such as electric power and pipeline transmission build-outs and utility-scale solar facilities, become a more significant aspect of our business. we must estimate the costs of completing a particular project to bid for fixed price contracts. the actual cost of labor and materials, however, may vary from the costs we originally estimated, and we may bear the risk of certain unforeseen circumstances not included in our cost estimates for which we cannot obtain adequate compensation. these variations, along with other risks inherent in performing fixed price contracts, may cause actual revenue and gross profits for a project to differ from those we originally estimated and could result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. depending upon the size of a particular project, variations from the estimated contract costs could have a significant impact on our operating results for any fiscal period. our use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits. as discussed in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data , a significant portion of our revenues are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, utilizing the cost-to-cost method. this method is used because management considers expended costs to be the best available measure of progress on these contracts. this accounting method is generally accepted for fixed price contracts. the percentage-of-completion accounting practice we use results in our recognizing contract revenues and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. the earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability. contract losses are recognized in full when determined to be probable and reasonably estimable, and contract profit estimates are adjusted based on ongoing reviews of contract profitability. further, a substantial portion of our contracts contain various cost and performance incentives. penalties are recorded when known or finalized, which generally occurs during the latter stages of the contract. in addition, we record cost recovery claims when we believe recovery is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. actual collection of claims could differ from estimated amounts and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings. in certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be significant. our operating results can be negatively affected by weather conditions. we perform substantially all of our services in the outdoors. as a result, adverse weather conditions, such as rainfall or snow, may affect our productivity in performing our services or may temporarily prevent us from performing services. the effect of weather delays on projects that are under fixed price arrangements may be greater if we are unable to adjust the project schedule for such delays. a reduction in our productivity in any given period or our inability to meet guaranteed schedules may adversely affect the profitability of our projects, and as a result, our results of operations. we may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth. our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to: expand the range of services we offer to customers to address their evolving network needs; attract new customers; increase the number of projects performed for existing customers; hire and retain qualified employees; expand geographically, including internationally; and address the challenges presented by stringent regulatory, environmental and permitting requirements and difficult economic or market conditions that may affect us or our customers. 16 table of contents in addition, our customers may cancel, delay or reduce the number or size of projects available to us for a variety of reasons, including capital constraints or inability to the meet regulatory requirements. many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies for achieving internal growth will be successful. our business is highly competitive. the specialty contracting business is served by numerous small, owner-operated private companies, some public companies and several large regional companies. in addition, relatively few barriers prevent entry into some areas of our business. as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become one of our competitors. competition in the industry depends on a number of factors, including price. for example, we are currently experiencing the impacts of competitive pricing in certain of the markets we serve, such as the electric power market with respect to smaller scale transmission projects and distribution services. certain of our competitors may have lower overhead cost structures and, therefore, may be able to provide their services at lower rates than we are able to provide. in addition, some of our competitors have significant resources, including financial, technical and marketing resources. we cannot be certain that our competitors do not have or will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services. similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position within the specialty contracting business or maintain our customer base at current levels. we also face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers. electric power, natural gas, oil and telecommunications service providers usually employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services we do, and we cannot be certain that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource services in the future. legislative actions and initiatives relating to renewable energy, telecommunications and electric power may fail to result in increased demand for our services. demand for our services may not result from renewable energy initiatives. while many states currently have mandates in place that require specified percentages of power to be generated from renewable sources, states could reduce those mandates or make them optional, which could reduce, delay or eliminate renewable energy development in the affected states. additionally, renewable energy is generally more expensive to produce and may require additional power generation sources as backup. the locations of renewable energy projects are often remote and are not viable unless new or expanded transmission infrastructure to transport the power to demand centers is economically feasible. furthermore, funding for renewable energy initiatives may not be available, which has been further constrained as a result of tight credit markets. these factors have resulted in fewer renewable energy projects than anticipated and a delay in the construction of these projects and the related infrastructure, which has adversely affected the demand for our services. these factors could continue to result in delays or reductions in projects, which could further negatively impact our business. the arra provides for various stimulus programs, such as grants, loan guarantees and tax incentives, relating to renewable energy, energy efficiency and electric power and telecommunications infrastructure. some of these programs have expired, which may affect the economic feasibility of future projects. additionally, while a significant amount of stimulus funds have been awarded, we cannot predict the timing and scope of any investments to be made under stimulus funding or whether stimulus funding will result in increased demand for our services. investments for renewable energy, electric power infrastructure and telecommunications fiber deployment under arra programs may not occur, may be less than anticipated or may be delayed, any of which would negatively impact demand for our services. other current and potential legislative or regulatory initiatives may not result in increased demand for our services. examples include legislation or regulations to require utilities to meet reliability standards, to ease siting and right-of-way issues for the construction of transmission lines, and to encourage installation of new electric power transmission and renewable energy generation facilities. it is not certain whether existing legislation will create sufficient incentives for new projects, when or if proposed legislative initiatives will be enacted or whether any potentially beneficial provisions will be included in the final legislation. 17 table of contents there are also a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to address greenhouse gas emissions, which are in various phases of discussion or implementation. the outcome of federal and state actions to address global climate change could negatively affect the operations of our customers through costs of compliance or restraints on projects, which could reduce their demand for our services. we are self-insured against certain potential liabilities. although we maintain insurance policies with respect to employer liability, general liability, auto and workers compensation claims, those policies are subject to deductibles ranging from $1.0 million to $5.0 million per occurrence depending on the insurance policy. we are primarily self-insured for all claims that do not exceed the amount of the applicable deductible. we also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $350,000 per claimant per year. our insurance policies include various coverage requirements, including the requirement to give appropriate notice. if we fail to comply with these requirements, our coverage could be denied. losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. these insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the number of incidents not reported. the accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals are adequate. if we were to experience insurance claims or costs significantly above our estimates, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected in a given period. during the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to lawsuits or indemnity claims, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. we have in the past been, and may in the future be, named as a defendant in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings during the ordinary course of our business. these actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract, property damage, environmental liabilities, punitive damages, and civil penalties or other losses or injunctive or declaratory relief. in addition, we generally indemnify our customers for claims related to the services we provide and actions we take under our contracts with them, and, in some instances, we may be allocated risk through our contract terms for actions by our customers or other third parties. because our services in certain instances may be integral to the operation and performance of our customers infrastructure, we have been and may become subject to lawsuits or claims for any failure of the systems that we work on, even if our services are not the cause of such failures, and we could be subject to civil and criminal liabilities to the extent that our services contributed to any property damage, personal injury or system failure. insurance coverage may not be available or may be insufficient for these lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings. the outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings could result in significant costs and diversion of management attention to the business. payments of significant amounts, even if reserved, could adversely affect our reputation, liquidity and results of operations. for details on our existing litigation and claims, refer to note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. unavailability or cancellation of third party insurance coverage would increase our overall risk exposure as well as disrupt our operations. we maintain insurance coverage from third party insurers as part of our overall risk management strategy and because some of our contracts require us to maintain specific insurance coverage limits. there can be no assurance that any of our existing insurance coverage will be renewed upon the expiration of the coverage period or that future coverage will be affordable at the required limits. in addition, our third party insurers could fail, suddenly cancel our coverage or otherwise be unable to provide us with adequate insurance coverage. if any of these events occur, our overall risk exposure would increase and our operations could be disrupted. for example, 18 table of contents we have significant operations in california, which has an environment conducive to wildfires. should our insurer determine to exclude coverage for wildfires in the future, we could be exposed to significant liabilities and potentially a disruption of our california operations. if our risk exposure increases as a result of adverse changes in our insurance coverage, we could be subject to increased claims and liabilities that could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. many of our contracts may be canceled on short notice or may not be renewed upon completion or expiration, and we may be unsuccessful in replacing our contracts in such events, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we could experience a decrease in our revenue, net income and liquidity if any of the following occur: our customers cancel a significant number of contracts or contracts having significant value; we fail to renew a significant number of our existing contracts; we complete a significant number of non-recurring projects and cannot replace them with similar projects; or we fail to reduce operating and overhead expenses consistent with any decrease in our revenue. many of our customers may cancel our contracts on short notice, typically 30 to 90 days, even if we are not in default under the contract. certain of our customers assign work to us on a project-by-project basis under master service agreements. under these agreements, our customers often have no obligation to assign a specific amount of work to us. our operations could decline significantly if the anticipated volume of work is not assigned to us, which will be more likely if customer spending continues to decrease, for example, due to the slow recovery of the economy and the financial markets. many of our contracts, including our master service agreements, are opened to public bid at the expiration of their terms. there can be no assurance that we will be the successful bidder on our existing contracts that come up for re-bid. the nature of our business exposes us to warranty claims, which may reduce our profitability. under our contracts with our customers, we typically provide a warranty for the services we provide, guaranteeing the work performed against defects in workmanship and material. the majority of our contracts have a warranty period of 12 months. as much of the work we perform is inspected by our customers for any defects in construction prior to acceptance of the project, the warranty claims that we have historically received have been minimal. additionally, materials used in construction are often provided by the customer or are warranted against defects from the supplier. however, certain projects, such as utility-scale solar facilities, may have longer warranty periods and include facility performance warranties that may be broader than the warranties we generally provide. in these circumstances, if warranty claims occurred, it could require us to re-perform the services or to repair or replace the warranted item, at a cost to us, and could also result in other damages if we are not able to adequately satisfy our warranty obligations. in addition, we may be required under contractual arrangements with our customers to warrant any defects or failures in materials we provide that we purchase from third parties. while we generally require the materials suppliers to provide us warranties that are consistent with those we provide to the customers, if any of these suppliers default on their warranty obligations to us, we may incur costs to repair or replace the defective materials for which we are not reimbursed. costs incurred as a result of warranty claims could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the loss of one or a few customers could have an adverse effect on us. a few clients have in the past and may in the future account for a significant portion of our revenue in any one year or over a period of several consecutive years. although we have long-standing relationships with many of our significant clients, our clients may unilaterally reduce or discontinue their contracts with us at any time. our loss of business from a significant client could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 table of contents our profitability and financial condition may be adversely affected by risks associated with the natural gas and oil industry, such as price fluctuations and supply and demand for natural gas. certain of our services, in particular those under our natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services segment, are exposed to risks associated with the natural gas and oil industry. these risks, which are not subject to our control, include the volatility of natural gas and oil prices, the lack of demand for power generation from natural gas and a slowdown in the discovery or development of natural gas and/or oil reserves. specifically, lower natural gas and oil prices generally result in decreased spending by our customers in our natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services segment. while higher natural gas and oil prices generally result in increased infrastructure spending by these customers, sustained high energy prices could be an impediment to economic growth and could result in reduced infrastructure spending by such customers. additionally, higher prices will likely reduce demand for power generation from natural gas, which could result in decreased demand for the expansion of north america natural gas pipeline infrastructure, and consequently result in less capital spending by these customers and less demand for our services. further, if the discovery or development of natural gas and/or oil reserves slowed or stopped, customers would likely reduce capital spending on transmission pipelines, gas gathering and compressor systems and other related infrastructure, resulting in less demand for our services. if the profitability of our business under the natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services segment were to decline, our overall profitability, results of operations and cash flows could also be adversely affected. backlog may not be realized or may not result in profits. backlog is difficult to determine with certainty. customers often have no obligation under our contracts to assign or release work to us, and many contracts may be terminated on short notice. reductions in backlog due to cancellation of one or more contracts or projects by a customer or for other reasons could significantly reduce the revenue and profit we actually receive from contracts included in backlog. in the event of a project cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but would not have a contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. the backlog we obtain in connection with any companies we acquire may not be as large as we believed or may not result in the revenue or profits we expected. in addition, projects that are delayed may remain in backlog for extended periods of time. all of these uncertainties are heightened as a result of negative economic conditions and their impact on our customers spending, as well as the effects of regulatory requirements and weather conditions. consequently, we cannot assure that our estimates of backlog are accurate or that we will be able to realize our estimated backlog. our financial results are based upon estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. in preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states, several estimates and assumptions are used by management in determining the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses recognized during the periods presented and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities known to exist as of the date of the financial statements. these estimates and assumptions must be made because certain information that is used in the preparation of our financial statements is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available or is not capable of being readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. in some cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine and we must exercise significant judgment. estimates are primarily used in our assessment of the allowance for doubtful accounts, valuation of inventory, useful lives of assets, fair value assumptions in analyzing goodwill, other intangibles and long-lived asset impairments, equity investments, loan receivables, purchase price allocations, liabilities for self-insured and other claims, multi-employer pension plan withdrawal liabilities, revenue recognition for construction contracts and fiber optic licensing, share-based compensation, operating results of reportable segments, provision (benefit) for income taxes and the calculation of uncertain tax positions. actual results for all estimates could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 20 table of contents our inability to successfully execute our acquisition strategy may have an adverse impact on our growth strategy. our business strategy includes expanding our presence in the industries we serve through strategic acquisitions of companies that complement or enhance our business. the number of acquisition targets that meet our criteria may be limited, and we may also face competition for acquisition opportunities. some of our competitors may offer more favorable terms than us or have greater financial resources than we do. this competition may further limit our acquisition opportunities and our ability to grow through acquisitions or could raise the prices of acquisitions and make them less accretive or possibly not accretive to us. acquisitions that we may pursue may also involve significant cash expenditures, the incurrence or assumption of debt or burdensome regulatory requirements. any acquisition may ultimately have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. any of these factors could inhibit our ability to consummate future acquisitions, which could negatively affect our growth strategies. we may be unsuccessful at integrating businesses that either we have acquired or that we may acquire in the future, which may reduce the anticipated benefit from acquired businesses. as a part of our business strategy, we have acquired, and may seek to acquire in the future, companies that complement or enhance our business. the success of this strategy will depend on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquired businesses, such as the expansion of our existing operations, elimination of redundant costs and capitalizing on cross-selling opportunities. to realize these benefits, however, we must successfully integrate the operations of the acquired businesses with our existing operations. we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully integrate acquired companies with our existing operations without substantial costs, delays, disruptions or other operational or financial problems. additionally, if we do not implement proper overall business controls, our decentralized operating strategy could result in inconsistent operating and financial practices at the companies we acquire. issues related to the integration process may result in adverse impact to our revenues, earnings and cash flows. integrating our acquired companies involves a number of special risks that could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including: failure of acquired companies to achieve the results we expect; diversion of our management attention from operational and other matters; difficulties integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies; inability to retain key personnel of acquired companies; risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities; loss of business due to customer overlap or change from local or private ownership; risks arising from the prior operations of acquired companies, such as performance, operational, safety or workforce issues, or customer dissatisfaction; and potential disruptions of our business. our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of impairments of goodwill, other intangible assets or our investments. when we acquire a business, we record an asset called goodwill equal to the excess amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business we acquire. goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives cannot be amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairment, while intangible assets that have finite useful lives are amortized over their useful lives. the accounting literature provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for impairment. refer to item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting polices for a detailed discussion. 21 table of contents management is required to make certain estimates and assumptions when allocating goodwill to reporting units and determining the fair value of a reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. fair value is determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches. absent any impairment indicators, we perform our impairment tests annually during the fourth quarter. if there is a decrease in market capitalization below book value in the future, this may be considered an impairment indicator. in addition, we enter into various types of investment arrangements in the normal course of business, each having unique terms and conditions. these investments may include equity interests we hold in business entities, including general or limited partnerships, contractual joint ventures or other forms of equity participation. these investments may also include our participation in different finance structures such as the extension of loans to project specific entities, the acquisition of convertible notes issued by project specific entities or other strategic financing arrangements. our equity method investments are carried at original cost and are included in other assets, net in our consolidated balance sheet and are adjusted for our proportionate share of the investees income, losses and distributions. equity investments are reviewed for impairment by assessing whether any decline in the fair value of the investment below the carrying value is other than temporary. in making this determination, factors such as the ability to recover the carrying amount of the investment and the inability of the investee to sustain future earnings capacity are evaluated in determining whether an impairment should be recognized. any future impairments, including impairments of goodwill or intangible assets recorded in connection with acquisitions or impairments of any investments, would negatively impact our results of operations for the period in which the impairment is recognized. our profitability and financial operations may be negatively affected by changes in, or interpretations of, existing state or federal telecommunications regulations or new regulations that could adversely affect our fiber optic licensing segment. many of our fiber optic licensing segment customers benefit from the universal service e-rate program, which was established by congress in the 1996 telecommunications act and is administered by the universal service administrative company (usac) under the oversight of the federal communications commission (fcc). under the e-rate program, schools, libraries and certain healthcare facilities may receive subsidies for certain approved telecommunications services, internet access and internal connections. from time to time, bills have been introduced in congress that would eliminate or curtail the e-rate program. passage of such actions by the fcc or usac to further limit e-rate subsidies could decrease the demand by certain customers for the services offered by our fiber optic licensing segment. the telecommunications services we provide through our fiber optic licensing segment are subject to regulation by the fcc, to the extent that they are interstate telecommunications services, and by state regulatory agencies, when wholly within a particular state. to remain eligible to provide services under the e-rate program, we must maintain telecommunications authorizations in every state where we operate, and we must obtain such authorizations in any new state where we plan to operate. changes in federal or state regulations could reduce the profitability of our fiber optic licensing segment, and delays in obtaining new authorizations could inhibit our ability to grow our fiber optic licensing segment in new geographic areas. we could be subject to fines if the fcc or a state regulatory agency were to determine that any of our activities or positions are not in compliance with certain regulations. if the profitability of our fiber optic licensing segment were to decline, or if the business of this segment were to become subject to fines, our overall results of operations and cash flows could also be adversely affected. 22 table of contents the business of our fiber optic licensing segment is capital intensive and requires substantial investments, and returns on investments may be less than expected for various reasons. the business of our fiber optic licensing segment requires substantial amounts of capital investment to build out new fiber networks. in 2012, our proposed capital expenditures for our fiber optic licensing business are approximately $40 million to $50 million, $14.1 million of which is related to committed licensing arrangements as of december 31, 2011. although we generally do not commit capital to new networks until we have a committed license arrangement in place with at least one customer, we may not be able to recoup our initial investment in the network if that customer defaults on its commitment. even if the customer does not default or we add additional customers to the network, we still may not realize a return on the capital investment for an extended period of time. furthermore, the amount of capital that we invest in our fiber optic network may exceed planned expenditures as a result of various factors, including difficulty in obtaining permits or rights of way or unexpected increases in costs due to labor, materials or project productivity, which would result in a decrease in the returns on our capital investments if licensing fees for the network were committed and could not be renegotiated. new or developing technologies or significant competition in any of our markets could also negatively impact the business of our fiber optic licensing segment. if any of the above events occur, it could adversely affect our results of operations or result in an impairment of our fiber optic network. we extend credit to customers for purchases of our services and may enter into longer-term deferred payment arrangements or provide other financing or investment arrangements with certain of our customers, which subjects us to potential credit or investment risk that could, if realized, adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we grant credit, generally without collateral, to our customers, which include electric power utilities, natural gas and oil companies, telecommunications service providers, governmental entities, general contractors, and builders, owners and managers of renewable energy facilities and commercial and industrial properties located primarily in the united states and canada. we may also agree to allow our customers to defer payment on projects until certain milestones have been met or until the projects are substantially completed, and customers typically withhold some portion of amounts due to us as retainage. in addition, we may provide other forms of financing to our customers or make investments in our customers projects, typically in situations where we also provide services in connection with the projects. our payment arrangements with our customers subject us to potential credit risk related to changes in business and economic factors affecting our customers, including material changes in our customers revenues or cash flows. these changes may also reduce the value of any financing or equity investment arrangements we have with our customers. many of our customers have been negatively impacted by the recent economic downturn, and some may experience financial difficulties (including bankruptcies) that could impact our ability to collect amounts owed to us or impair the value of our investments in them. if we are unable to collect amounts owed to us, our cash flows would be reduced and we could experience losses if the uncollectible amounts exceeded current allowances. we would also recognize losses with respect to any investments that are impaired as a result of our customers financial difficulties. losses experienced could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. the risks of collectability and impairment losses may increase for projects where we provide services as well as make a financing or equity investment. the loss of key personnel could disrupt our business. we depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and on senior management of our operating units, including the businesses we acquire. although we have entered into employment agreements with terms of one to three years with most of our executive officers and certain other key employees, we cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time. the loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business. we do not carry key-person life insurance on any of our employees. 23 table of contents we may be required to contribute cash to meet our underfunded obligations in certain multi-employer pension plans. our collective bargaining agreements generally require us to participate with other companies in multi-employer pension plans. to the extent those plans are underfunded, the employee retirement income security act of 1974, as amended by the multi-employer pension plan amendments act of 1980, may subject us to substantial liabilities under those plans if we withdraw from them or they are terminated or experience a mass withdrawal. for example, in the fourth quarter of 2011, we recognized a $32.6 million liability when certain of our subsidiaries withdrew from an underfunded multi-employer pension plan. the amount of this liability is estimated based on information received from the multi-employer plan in 2011 and the actual amount assessed by the plan for the withdrawal, which we do not expect the plan to provide us before 2013, and the amount that we ultimately pay for the withdrawal liability may be materially different than the amount currently recorded. in addition, the pension protection act of 2006 added special funding and operational rules generally applicable to plan years beginning after 2007 for multi-employer plans that are classified as endangered, seriously endangered, or critical status. plans in these classifications must adopt measures to improve their funded status through a funding improvement or rehabilitation plan, which may require additional contributions from employers (which may take the form of a surcharge on benefit contributions) and/or modifications to retiree benefits. a number of multi-employer plans to which we contribute or may contribute in the future are in endangered, seriously endangered or critical status. the amount of additional funds we may be obligated to contribute to these plans in the future cannot be estimated, as such amounts will likely be based on future work that requires the specific use of union employees covered by these plans, and the amount of that future work and the number of employees that may be affected cannot reasonably be estimated. should we provide in the future a significant amount of services in areas that require us to utilize unionized employees covered by these affected plans, causing us to make substantial contributions, or should a determination be made that additional plans to which any of our operating units contribute are in a classification that requires additional contributions, it could detrimentally affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows if we are not able to adequately mitigate these costs. our unionized workforce and related obligations could adversely affect our operations. as of december 31, 2011, approximately 48% of our hourly employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. although the majority of the collective bargaining agreements prohibit strikes and work stoppages, certain of our unionized employees participated in a strike and work stoppage during january 2012, and we cannot be certain that strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the future. strikes or work stoppages can adversely impact our relationships with our customers and could cause us to lose business and decrease our revenue. our ability to complete future acquisitions could be adversely affected because of our union status for a variety of reasons. for instance, our union agreements may be incompatible with the union agreements of a business we want to acquire and some businesses may not want to become affiliated with a union-based company. additionally, we may increase our exposure to withdrawal liabilities for underfunded multi-employer pension plans to which an acquired company contributes. approximately 52% of our hourly employees are not unionized. under the current presidential administration, certain administrative and regulatory actions have been taken and are being considered that could create more flexibility and opportunity for labor unions to organize non-union workers and could result in a greater percentage of our workforce being subject to collective bargaining agreements, heightening the risks described above. in addition, certain of our customers require or prefer a non-union workforce, and they may reduce the amount of work assigned to us if our non-union labor crews were to become unionized, which could negatively affect our business and results of operations. 24 table of contents we may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial or reputational impacts relating to occupational health and safety matters. our operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace. while we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources in our occupational health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operational risk and there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant liability exposure. although we have taken what we believe are appropriate precautions, we have suffered fatalities in the past and may suffer additional fatalities in the future. serious accidents, including fatalities, may subject us to substantial penalties, civil litigation or criminal prosecution. claims for damages to persons, including claims for bodily injury or loss of life, could result in substantial costs and liabilities, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, if our safety record were to substantially deteriorate over time or we were to suffer substantial penalties or criminal prosecution for violation of health and safety regulations, our customers could cancel our contracts and not award us future business. risks associated with operating in international markets could restrict our ability to expand globally and harm our business and prospects. our international operations are presently conducted primarily in canada and australia, but we have performed work in various other foreign countries, and we expect that the number of countries in which we operate could expand significantly over the next few years. economic conditions, including those resulting from wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts or volatility in the global markets, may adversely affect our customers, their demand for our services and their ability to pay for our services. in addition, there are numerous risks inherent in conducting our business internationally, including, but not limited to, potential instability in international markets, changes in regulatory requirements applicable to international operations, currency fluctuations in foreign countries, political, economic and social conditions in foreign countries and complex u.s. and foreign laws and treaties, including tax laws. these risks could restrict our ability to provide services to international customers or to operate our international business profitably, and our overall business and results of operations could be negatively impacted by our foreign activities. we could be adversely affected by our failure to comply with the laws applicable to our foreign activities, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and other similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions prohibit u.s.-based companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. we pursue opportunities in certain parts of the world that experience government corruption, and in certain circumstances, compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. our policies mandate compliance with all applicable anti-bribery laws. further, we require our partners, subcontractors, agents and others who work for us or on our behalf to comply with the fcpa and other anti-bribery laws. although we have policies and procedures designed to ensure that we, our employees, our agents and others who work with us in foreign countries comply with the fcpa and other anti-bribery laws, there is no assurance that such policies or procedures will protect us against liability under the fcpa or other laws for actions taken by our agents, employees and intermediaries. if we are found to be liable for fcpa violations (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer from severe criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged fcpa violations is expensive and could consume significant time and attention of our senior management. we may not have access in the future to sufficient funding to finance desired growth and operations. if we cannot secure funds in the future, including financing on acceptable terms, we may be unable to support our growth strategy or future operations. we cannot readily predict the ability of certain customers to pay for past services, and unfavorable economic conditions, such as those experienced over recent years, may 25 table of contents negatively impact the ability of our customers to pay amounts owed to us. we may also use cash for acquisitions, as well as for investments, both of which are elements of our growth strategy, but we cannot readily predict the timing, size and success of our acquisition or investment efforts. using cash for acquisitions and investments limits our financial flexibility and makes us more likely to seek additional capital through future debt or equity financings. our existing credit facility contains significant restrictions on our operational and financial flexibility, including our ability to incur additional debt or conduct certain types of preferred equity financings, and if we seek more debt, we may have to agree to additional covenants that limit our operational and financial flexibility. if we seek additional debt or equity financings, we cannot be certain that additional debt or equity will be available to us on terms acceptable to us or at all. furthermore, our credit facility is based upon existing commitments from several banks. banks have become more restrictive in their lending practices following the difficulties in the credit markets, and some may be unable or unwilling to fund their commitments, which may limit our access to the capital needed to fund our growth and operations. in addition, we rely on financing companies to fund the leasing of certain of our trucks and trailers, support vehicles and specialty construction equipment. credit market conditions may cause certain of these financing companies to restrict or withhold access to capital to fund the leasing of additional equipment. although we are not dependent on any single equipment lessor, a widespread lack of available capital to fund the leasing of equipment could negatively impact our future operations. additionally, the market price of our common stock may change significantly in response to various factors and events beyond our control, which will impact our ability to use equity to obtain funds. a variety of events may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly, including overall market conditions or volatility, a shortfall in our operating results from those anticipated, negative results or other unfavorable information relating to our market peers or the other risks described in this annual report on form 10-k. our participation in joint ventures exposes us to liability and/or harm to our reputation for failures of our partners. as part of our business, we have entered into joint venture arrangements and may enter into additional joint venture arrangements in the future. the purpose of these joint ventures is typically to combine skills and resources to allow for the performance of particular projects. success on these jointly performed projects depends in large part on whether our joint venture partners satisfy their contractual obligations. we and our joint venture partners are generally jointly and severally liable for all liabilities and obligations of our joint ventures. if a joint venture partner fails to perform or is financially unable to bear its portion of required capital contributions or other obligations, including liabilities stemming from claims or lawsuits, we could be required to make additional investments, provide additional services or pay more than our proportionate share of a liability to make up for our partner shortfall. further, if we are unable to adequately address our partner performance issues, the customer may terminate the project, which could result in legal liability to us, harm our reputation and reduce our profit on a project. we are in the process of implementing an information technology (it) solution, which could temporarily disrupt day-to-day operations at certain operating units. we continue to implement a comprehensive it solution that we believe will allow for the interface between functions such as accounting and finance, human resources, operations, and fleet management. continued development and implementation of the it solution will require substantial financial and personnel resources. while the it solution is intended to improve and enhance our information systems, implementation of new information systems at each operating unit exposes us to the risks of start-up of the new system and integration of that system with our existing systems and processes, including possible disruption of our financial reporting. there is no guarantee that we will realize economic or other intended benefits from continued development and implementation of the it solution. additionally, the it solution may not be developed or implemented as timely or as accurately as planned. failure to properly implement the it solution could result in substantial disruptions to our business, including coordinating and processing our normal business activities, testing and recording of certain data necessary to provide oversight over our disclosure controls and procedures and effective internal controls over our financial reporting, and other unforeseen problems. 26 table of contents failure to adequately protect critical data and technology systems could materially affect our operations. it solution failures, network disruptions and breaches of data security could disrupt our operations by causing delays or cancellation of customer orders, impeding processing of transactions and reporting financial results, resulting in the unintentional disclosure of customer or our information, or damage to our reputation. while management has taken steps to address these concerns by implementing network security and internal control measures, there can be no assurance that a system failure or data security breach (particularly in light of our ongoing implementation of the it solution) will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. our dependence on suppliers, subcontractors and equipment manufacturers could expose us to the risk of loss in our operations. on certain projects, we rely on suppliers to obtain the necessary materials and subcontractors to perform portions of our services. we also rely on equipment manufacturers to provide us with the equipment required to conduct our operations. although we are not dependent on any single supplier, subcontractor or equipment manufacturer, any substantial limitation on the availability of required suppliers, subcontractors or equipment manufacturers could negatively impact our operations. the risk of a lack of available suppliers, subcontractors or equipment manufacturers may be heightened as a result of recent market and economic conditions. to the extent we cannot engage subcontractors or acquire equipment or materials, we could experience losses in the performance of our operations. fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates may have a greater impact on our financial results as we expand into international markets. for the year ended december 31, 2011, we derived $535.0 million, or 12%, of our consolidated revenues from foreign operations, the substantial majority of which was earned in canada. we intend to expand the volume of services that we provide internationally. as a result, our reported financial condition and results of operations may be more significantly exposed to the effects (both positive and negative) that fluctuating exchange rates have on the process of translating the financial statements of our international operations, which are denominated in local currencies, into the u.s. dollar. our business growth could outpace the capability of our decentralized management infrastructure. we cannot be certain that our management infrastructure will be adequate to support our operations as they expand. for example, the ability to internally communicate, coordinate and execute business strategies, plans and tactics may be negatively impacted by our increasing size and complexity. a decentralized structure places significant control and decision-making powers in the hands of local management. this contributes to the risk that we may be slower or less able to identify or react to problems affecting key business matters than we would in a more centralized environment. the lack of timely access to information may impact the quality of decision making by management. our decentralized organization creates the possibility that our operating subsidiaries assume excessive risk without appropriate guidance from our centralized legal, accounting, tax, and treasury functions as to the potential overall impact. future growth also could impose significant additional responsibilities on members of our senior management, including the need to recruit and integrate new senior level managers and executives. we cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain such additional managers and executives. to the extent that we are unable to manage our growth effectively, or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified management, we may not be able to expand our operations or execute our business plan. we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects if we are not able to obtain surety bonds. a portion of our business depends on our ability to provide surety bonds or other financial assurances. current or future market conditions, including losses incurred in the construction industry or as a result of large corporate bankruptcies, as well as changes in our sureties assessment of our operating and financial risk, could 27 table of contents cause our surety providers to decline to issue or renew, or substantially reduce the amount of, bid and/or performance bonds for our work and could increase our bonding costs. these actions could be taken on short notice. if our surety providers were to limit or eliminate our access to bonding, our alternatives would include seeking bonding capacity from other sureties, finding more business that does not require bonds or posting other forms of collateral for project performance, such as letters of credit or cash. we may be unable to secure these alternatives in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all, which could affect our ability to bid for or work on future projects requiring financial assurances. we have also granted security interests in various of our assets to collateralize our obligations to our sureties. furthermore, under standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue or continue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing or renewing any bonds. if we were to experience an interruption or reduction in the availability of bonding capacity as a result of these or any other reasons, we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects that would require bonding. our failure to comply with environmental laws could result in significant liabilities. our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including those dealing with the handling and disposal of waste products, pcbs, fuel storage and air quality. we perform work in many different types of underground environments. if the field location maps supplied to us are not accurate, or if objects are present in the soil that are not indicated on the field location maps, our underground work could strike objects in the soil, some of which may contain pollutants. these objects may also rupture, resulting in the discharge of pollutants. in such circumstances, we may be liable for fines and damages, and we may be unable to obtain reimbursement from the parties providing the incorrect information. we perform work in and around environmentally sensitive areas such as rivers, lakes and wetlands. in addition, we perform directional drilling operations below certain environmentally sensitive terrains and water bodies. due to the inconsistent nature of the terrain and water bodies, it is possible that such directional drilling may cause a surface fracture, resulting in the release of subsurface materials. these subsurface materials may contain contaminants in excess of amounts permitted by law, potentially exposing us to remediation costs and fines. we also own and lease several facilities at which we store our equipment. some of these facilities contain fuel storage tanks that are above or below ground. if these tanks were to leak, we could be responsible for the cost of remediation as well as potential fines. in addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or leaks, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur significant costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. in certain instances, we have obtained indemnification or covenants from third parties (including predecessors or lessors) for such clean-up and other obligations and liabilities that we believe are adequate to cover such obligations and liabilities. however, such third-party indemnities or covenants may not cover all of our costs and the indemnitors may not pay amounts owed to us, and such unanticipated obligations or liabilities, or future obligations and liabilities, may have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition or cash flows. further, we cannot be certain that we will be able to identify or be indemnified for all potential environmental liabilities relating to any acquired business. there are also other legislative and regulatory proposals to address greenhouse gas emissions. these proposals, if enacted, could result in a variety of regulatory programs including potential new regulations, additional charges to fund energy efficiency activities, or other regulatory actions. any of these actions could result in increased costs associated with our operations and impact the prices we charge our customers. for example, if new regulations are adopted regulating greenhouse gas emissions from mobile sources such as cars and trucks, we could experience a significant increase in environmental compliance costs in light of our large rolling-stock fleet. in addition, if our operations are perceived to result in high greenhouse gas emissions, our reputation could suffer. 28 table of contents opportunities within the government arena could subject us to increased governmental regulation and costs. most government contracts are awarded through a regulated competitive bidding process. as we pursue increased opportunities in the government arena, management focus associated with the start-up and bidding process may be diverted away from other opportunities. involvement with government contracts could require a significant amount of costs to be incurred before any revenues are realized from these contracts. in addition, as a government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and other public sector regulations, any deemed violation of which could lead to fines or penalties or a loss of business. government agencies routinely audit and investigate government contractors. government agencies may review a contractor performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. if government agencies determine through these audits or reviews that costs were improperly allocated to specific contracts, they will not reimburse the contractor for those costs or may require the contractor to refund previously reimbursed costs. if government agencies determine that we engaged in improper activity, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties. in addition, if a government agency were to even allege improper activity, we also could experience serious harm to our reputation. many government contracts must be appropriated each year. if appropriations are not made in subsequent years, we would not realize all of the potential revenues from any awarded contracts. we may not be successful in continuing to meet the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 has many requirements applicable to us regarding corporate governance and financial reporting, including the requirements for management to report on our internal controls over financial reporting and for our independent registered public accounting firm to express an opinion over the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. during 2011, we continued actions to ensure our ability to comply with these requirements. as of december 31, 2011, our internal control over financial reporting was effective; however, there can be no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in future years. failure to maintain effective internal controls or the identification of significant internal control deficiencies in acquisitions already made or made in the future could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock and our other publicly traded securities, the reduced ability to obtain financing, the loss of customers, penalties and additional expenditures to meet the requirements. if we are unable to enforce our intellectual property rights or if our intellectual property rights become obsolete, our competitive position could be adversely impacted. we utilize a variety of intellectual property rights in our services. we view our portfolio of proprietary energized services tools and techniques as well as our other process and design technologies as one of our competitive strengths, which we believe differentiates our service offerings. we may not be able to successfully preserve these intellectual property rights in the future and these rights could be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries in which our services may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. we also license certain technologies from third parties, and there is a risk that our relationships with licensors may terminate or expire or may be interrupted or harmed. if we are unable to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights, or if there are any successful intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings against us, our ability to differentiate our service offerings could be reduced. in addition, if our intellectual property rights or work processes become obsolete, we may not be able to differentiate our service offerings, and some of our competitors may be able to offer more attractive services to our customers. as a result, our business and revenue could be materially and adversely affected. we may incur additional healthcare costs arising from federal healthcare reform legislation. in march 2010, the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 were signed into law in the u.s. this legislation expands health care coverage to many uninsured individuals and expands coverage to those already insured. the changes required by this legislation could cause us to incur additional healthcare and other costs, although we do not expect any material short-term impact on our financial results as a result of the legislation. we are currently assessing the extent of any long-term impact from the legislation, including any potential changes to this legislation. 29 table of contents certain provisions of our corporate governing documents could make an acquisition of our company more difficult. the following provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as currently in effect, as well as delaware law, could discourage potential proposals to acquire us, delay or prevent a change in control of us or limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock: our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to issue blank check preferred stock and to adopt amendments to our bylaws; our bylaws contain restrictions regarding the right of stockholders to nominate directors and to submit proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings; our certificate of incorporation and bylaws restrict the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to act by written consent; and we are subject to provisions of delaware law which prohibit us from engaging in any of a broad range of business transactions with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date such stockholder became classified as an interested stockholder. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 71 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary exposure to market risk relates to unfavorable changes in concentration of credit risk, interest rates and currency exchange rates. credit risk. we are subject to concentrations of credit risk related to our cash and cash equivalents and our accounts receivable, including amounts related to unbilled accounts receivable and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts. substantially all of our cash investments are managed by what we believe to be high credit quality financial institutions. in accordance with our investment policies, these institutions are authorized to invest this cash in a diversified portfolio of what we believe to be high-quality investments, which primarily include interest-bearing demand deposits, money market mutual funds and investment grade commercial paper with original maturities of three months or less. although we do not currently believe the principal amounts of these investments are subject to any material risk of loss, economic conditions have significantly impacted the interest income we receive from these investments and is likely to continue to do so in the future. in addition, as we grant credit under normal payment terms, generally without collateral, we are subject to potential credit risk related to our customers ability to pay for services provided. this risk may be heightened as a result of the depressed economic and financial market conditions that have existed in recent years. however, we believe the concentration of credit risk related to trade accounts receivable and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts is limited because of the diversity of our customers. we perform ongoing credit risk assessments of our customers and financial institutions and in some cases we obtain collateral or other security from our customers. interest rate and market risk. currently, we do not have any significant assets or obligations with exposure to significant interest rate and market risk. currency risk. we conduct operations primarily in the u.s. and canada. future earnings are subject to change due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates when transactions are denominated in currencies other than our functional currencies. to minimize the need for foreign currency forward contracts to hedge this exposure, our objective is to manage foreign currency exposure by maintaining a minimal consolidated net asset or net liability position in a currency other than the functional currency. we may enter into foreign currency derivative contracts to manage some of our foreign currency exposures. these exposures may include revenues generated in foreign jurisdictions and anticipated purchase transactions, including foreign currency capital expenditures and lease commitments. there were no open foreign currency derivative contracts at december 31, 2011. in the third quarter of 2009, one of our canadian operating units entered into three forward contracts with settlement dates in 2009 and 2010, to reduce foreign currency risk associated with anticipated customer sales that were denominated in south african rand. this same operating unit also entered into three additional forward contracts with the same settlement dates to reduce the foreign currency exposure associated with a series of forecasted intercompany payments denominated in u.s. dollars to be made over a twelve-month period. these contracts were accounted for as cash flow hedges. accordingly, changes in the fair value of the forward contracts were recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) prior to their settlement and were reclassified into earnings in the periods in which the hedged transactions occurred. the south african rand to canadian dollar forward contracts had an aggregate notional amount of approximately $11.0 million ($cad) at origination, and the canadian dollar to u.s. dollar forward contracts had an aggregate notional amount of approximately $9.5 million (u.s.) at origination. during the year ended december 31, 2010, net losses of $0.4 million were recorded in income in connection with the settled contracts. there were no forward contracts outstanding at december 31, 2011 or 2010, and as a result, there is no balance related to the forward contracts in other comprehensive income. during the year ended december 31, 2009, losses of $0.8 million were recorded in income in connection with the settled contracts, and at december 31, 2009, there was $0.4 million in other comprehensive income (loss) related to the forward contracts. 71 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors for additional information. 6 table of contents index to financial statements customers, strategic alliances and preferred provider relationships our customers include electric power and natural gas and oil pipeline companies, as well as commercial, industrial and governmental entities. we have a large and diverse customer base, including many of the leading companies in the industries we serve. our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 31% of our consolidated revenues during the year ended december 31, 2012. our largest customer accounted for approximately 7% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended december 31, 2012. although we have a centralized marketing and business development strategy, management at each of our operating units is responsible for developing and maintaining successful long-term relationships with customers. our operating unit management teams build upon existing customer relationships to secure additional projects and increase revenue from our current customer base. many of these customer relationships originated decades ago and are maintained through a partnering approach to account management that includes project evaluation and consulting, quality performance, performance measurement and direct customer contact. additionally, operating unit management focuses on pursuing growth opportunities with prospective new customers. we encourage operating unit management to cross-sell services of our other operating units to their customers and to coordinate with our other operating units to pursue projects, especially those that are larger and more complicated. our business development group supports the operating units activities by promoting and marketing our services for existing and prospective large national accounts, as well as projects that would require services from multiple operating units. we are a preferred vendor to many of our customers. as a preferred vendor, we have met minimum standards for a specific category of service, maintained a high level of performance and agreed to certain payment terms and negotiated rates. we strive to maintain preferred vendor status as we believe it provides us an advantage in the award of future work for the applicable customer. we believe that our strategic relationships with customers in the electric power and natural gas and oil pipeline industries will continue to result in future opportunities. many of these relationships take the form of strategic alliance or long-term maintenance agreements. strategic alliance agreements generally state an intention to work together over a period of time and/or on specific types of projects, and many provide us with preferential bidding procedures. strategic alliances and long-term maintenance agreements are typically agreements for an initial term of approximately two to four years that may include renewal options to extend the initial term. backlog backlog represents the amount of revenue that we expect to realize from work to be performed in the future on uncompleted contracts, including new contractual agreements on which work has not begun. our backlog includes estimates of revenues to be realized under long-term maintenance contracts in addition to construction contracts. we determine the amount of backlog for work under long-term maintenance contracts, or master service agreements (msas), by using recurring historical trends inherent in our current msas, factoring in seasonal demand and projected customer needs based upon ongoing communications with the customer. the following tables present our total backlog by reportable segment as of december 31, 2012 and 2011, along with an estimate of the backlog amounts expected to be realized within 12 months of each balance sheet date (in thousands): backlog as of december 31, 2012 backlog as of december 31, 2011 12 month total 12 month total electric power infrastructure services $ 2,864,870 $ 4,918,178 $ 2,352,053 $ 4,946,486 natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services 797,044 1,566,316 764,135 1,343,156 fiber optic licensing and other 145,039 502,523 148,937 464,039 total $ 3,806,953 $ 6,987,017 $ 3,265,125 $ 6,753,681 7 table of contents index to financial statements as discussed above, our backlog includes estimates of revenues to be realized under msas. generally, our customers are not contractually committed to specific volumes of services under our msas, and many of our contracts may be terminated with notice, typically 30 to 90 days, even if we are not in default under the contract. there can be no assurance as to our customers requirements or that our estimates are accurate. in addition, many of our msas, as well as contracts for fiber optic licensing, are subject to renewal options. for purposes of calculating backlog, we have included future renewal options only to the extent the renewals can reasonably be expected to occur. projects included in backlog can be subject to delays as a result of commercial issues, regulatory requirements, adverse weather and other factors, which could cause revenue amounts to be realized in periods later than originally expected. competition the markets in which we operate are highly competitive. we compete with other contractors in most of the geographic markets in which we operate, and several of our competitors are large companies that have significant financial, technical and marketing resources. in addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry into some of the industries in which we operate and, as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become a competitor. a significant portion of our revenues is currently derived from unit price or fixed price agreements, and price is often an important factor in the award of such agreements. accordingly, we could be underbid by our competitors in an effort by them to procure such business. we believe that as demand for our services increases, customers often consider other factors in choosing a service provider, including technical expertise and experience, financial and operational resources, nationwide presence, industry reputation and dependability, which we expect to benefit larger contractors such as us. in addition, competition may lessen as industry resources, such as labor supplies, approach capacity. there can be no assurance, however, that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services, or that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position. we also face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers, including electric power, natural gas and oil pipeline and engineering companies, which employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services as those provided by us. although a significant portion of these services is currently outsourced by many of our customers, in particular services relating to larger energy transmission infrastructure projects, there can be no assurance that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource services in the future. employees as of december 31, 2012, we had approximately 17,800 employees, consisting of approximately 2,400 salaried employees, including executive officers, professional and administrative staff, project managers and engineers, job superintendents and clerical personnel, and approximately 15,400 hourly employees, the number of which fluctuates depending upon the number and size of the projects we undertake at any particular time. approximately 49% of our hourly employees at december 31, 2012 were covered by collective bargaining agreements, primarily with the international brotherhood of electrical workers (ibew), the canadian union skilled workers (cusw) and the four pipeline construction trade unions administered by the pipe line contractors association (plca), which are the laborers international union of north america, international brotherhood of teamsters (teamsters), united association of plumbers and pipefitters and the international union of operating engineers. these collective bargaining agreements require the payment of specified wages to our union employees, the observance of certain workplace rules and the payment of certain amounts to multi-employer pension plans and employee benefit trusts rather than sponsoring or administering the benefit programs provided on behalf of these employees. these collective bargaining agreements have varying terms and expiration dates. the majority of the collective bargaining agreements contain provisions that prohibit work stoppages or strikes, even during specified negotiation periods relating to agreement renewal, and provide for binding arbitration dispute resolution in the event of prolonged disagreement. 8 table of contents index to financial statements in january 2012, a strike by the teamsters occurred that affected one of quanta operating units, as well as other plca members. the strike lasted ten days and arose from disputes between the plca and the teamsters over pension plan obligations included in a collective bargaining agreement (to which the quanta operating unit was a party) under negotiation at the time. negotiations on the agreement stalled, resulting in the strike. other unions supported the strike by the teamsters and did not work during the strike period. the disputes have been resolved and the plca and the teamsters entered into a new collective bargaining agreement on may 31, 2012. we provide health, welfare and benefit plans for employees who are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. we have a 401(k) plan pursuant to which eligible employees who are not provided retirement benefits through a collective bargaining agreement may make contributions through a payroll deduction. we make matching cash contributions of 100% of each employee contribution up to 3% of that employee salary and 50% of each employee contribution between 3% and 6% of such employee salary, up to the maximum amount permitted by law. our industry is experiencing a shortage of journeyman linemen in certain geographic areas. in response to the shortage and to attract qualified employees, we utilize various ibew and national electrical contractors association (neca) training programs and support the joint ibew/neca apprenticeship program which trains qualified electrical workers. certain of our canadian operations also support the cusw apprenticeship programs for training construction and maintenance electricians and powerline technicians. we have also established apprenticeship training programs approved by the u.s. department of labor for employees not subject to the ibew/neca apprenticeship program, as well as additional company-wide and project-specific employee training and educational programs. we believe our relationships with our employees and union representatives are good. materials our customers typically supply most or all of the materials required for each job. however, for some of our contracts, we may procure all or part of the materials required. as we continue to expand our comprehensive engineering, procurement and construction offerings (epc), particularly associated with utility scale solar projects, the cost of materials may become a proportionally larger component of our consolidated cost of services. we purchase such materials from a variety of sources and do not anticipate experiencing any significant difficulties in procuring such materials. training, quality assurance and safety performance of our services requires the use of equipment and exposure to conditions that can be dangerous. although we are committed to a policy of operating safely and prudently, we have been and will continue to be subject to claims by employees, customers and third parties for property damage and personal injuries resulting from performance of our services. our operating units have established comprehensive safety policies, procedures and regulations and require that employees complete prescribed training and service programs prior to performing more sophisticated and technical jobs, which is in addition to those programs required, if applicable, by the ibew/neca apprenticeship program, the training programs sponsored by the four trade unions administered by the plca, the apprenticeship training programs sponsored by the cusw or our equivalent programs. under the ibew/neca apprenticeship program, all journeyman linemen are required to complete a minimum of 7,000 hours of on-the-job training, approximately 144 hours of classroom education and extensive testing and certification. certain of our operating units have established apprenticeship training programs approved by the u.s. department of labor that prescribe equivalent training requirements for employees who are not otherwise subject to the requirements of the ibew/neca apprenticeship program. similarly, the cusw offers apprenticeship training for construction and maintenance electricians that requires five terms of 1,700 hours each, combining classroom and on-the-job training, as well as training for powerline technicians that also involves classroom and jobsite training over a four-year period. in addition, the laborers international union of north america, international brotherhood of teamsters, united association of plumbers and pipefitters and the international union of operating engineers have training programs specifically designed 9 table of contents index to financial statements for developing and improving the skills of their members who work in the pipeline construction industry. our operating units also benefit from sharing best practices regarding their training and educational programs and comprehensive safety policies and regulations. regulation our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws and regulations including: licensing, permitting and inspection requirements applicable to contractors, electricians and engineers; regulations relating to worker safety and environmental protection; permitting and inspection requirements applicable to construction projects; wage and hour regulations; regulations relating to transportation of equipment and materials, including licensing and permitting requirements; building and electrical codes; telecommunications regulations relating to our fiber optic licensing business; and special bidding, procurement and other requirements on government projects. we believe that we have all the licenses required to conduct our operations and that we are in substantial compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating licenses, as well as give rise to termination or cancellation rights under our contracts or disqualify us from future bidding opportunities. environmental matters and climate change impacts we are committed to the protection of the environment and train our employees to perform their duties accordingly. we are subject to numerous federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations governing our operations, including the handling, transportation and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous substances and wastes, as well as emissions and discharges into the environment, including discharges to air, surface water, groundwater and soil. we also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and cleanup responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. under certain of these laws and regulations, such liabilities can be imposed for cleanup of previously owned or operated properties, or properties to which hazardous substances or wastes were sent by current or former operations at our facilities, regardless of whether we directly caused the contamination or violated any law at the time of discharge or disposal. the presence of contamination from such substances or wastes could interfere with ongoing operations or adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or use our properties as collateral for financing. in addition, we could be held liable for significant penalties and damages under certain environmental laws and regulations and also could be subject to a revocation of our licenses or permits, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. our contracts with our customers may also impose liabilities on us regarding environmental issues that arise through the performance of our services. from time to time, we may incur costs and obligations for correcting environmental noncompliance matters and for remediation at or relating to certain of our properties. we believe that we are in substantial compliance with our environmental obligations to date and that any such obligations will not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial performance. the potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain. climate change may result in, among other things, changes in rainfall patterns, storm patterns and intensities and temperature levels. as discussed elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k, including in item 1a. risk factors , our operating results are significantly influenced by weather. therefore, significant changes in historical weather patterns could significantly impact our future operating results. for example, if climate change results in drier 10 table of contents index to financial statements weather and more accommodating temperatures over a greater period of time in a given period, we may be able to increase our productivity, which could have a positive impact on our revenues and gross margins. in addition, if climate change results in an increase in severe weather, such as hurricanes and ice storms, we could experience a greater amount of higher margin emergency restoration service work, which generally has a positive impact on our gross margins. conversely, if climate change results in a greater amount of rainfall, snow, ice or other less accommodating weather conditions in a given period, we could experience reduced productivity, which could negatively impact our revenues and gross margins. risk management and insurance we are insured for employer liability, general liability, auto liability and workers compensation claims. since august 1, 2009, all policy deductible levels are $5.0 million per occurrence, other than employer liability, which is subject to a deductible of $1.0 million. we also have employee healthcare benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $375,000 per claimant per year. losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimate of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. these insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the number of incidents not reported. the accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals are adequate. as of december 31, 2012 and 2011, the gross amount accrued for insurance claims totaled $160.8 million and $201.2 million, with $120.2 million and $155.4 million considered to be long-term and included in other non-current liabilities. included within the gross liability at december 31, 2012 was approximately $14.7 million of accruals related to the insurance claims retained by us associated with the sale of our telecommunications subsidiaries on december 3, 2012. related insurance recoveries/receivables as of december 31, 2012 and 2011 were $22.2 million and $63.1 million, of which $2.3 million and $9.8 million are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $19.9 million and $53.3 million are included in other assets, net. these balance sheet amounts include liabilities and recoveries/receivables. we renew our insurance policies on an annual basis, and therefore deductibles and levels of insurance coverage may change in future periods. in addition, insurers may cancel our coverage or determine to exclude certain items from coverage, or we may elect not to obtain certain types or incremental levels of insurance if we believe that the cost to obtain such coverage exceeds the additional benefits obtained. in any such event, our overall risk exposure would increase, which could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. seasonality and cyclicality our revenues and results of operations can be subject to seasonal and other variations. these variations are influenced by weather, customer spending patterns, bidding seasons, project timing and schedules, and holidays. typically, our revenues are lowest in the first quarter of the year because cold, snowy or wet conditions can cause delays in projects. in addition, many of our customers develop their capital budgets for the coming year during the first quarter and do not begin infrastructure projects in a meaningful way until their capital budgets are finalized. second quarter revenues are typically higher than those in the first quarter, as some projects begin, but continued cold and wet weather can often impact second quarter productivity. third quarter revenues are typically the highest of the year, as a greater number of projects are underway and weather is more accommodating. generally, revenues during the fourth quarter of the year are lower than the third quarter but higher than the second quarter. many projects are completed in the fourth quarter, and revenues are often impacted positively by customers seeking to spend their capital budgets before the end of the year; however, the holiday season and inclement weather can sometimes cause delays, reducing revenues and increasing costs. any 11 table of contents index to financial statements quarter may be positively or negatively affected by atypical weather patterns in a given part of the country, such as severe weather, excessive rainfall or warmer winter weather, making it difficult to predict these variations and their effect on particular projects quarter to quarter. additionally, our industry can be highly cyclical. as a result, our volume of business may be adversely affected by declines or delays in new projects in various geographic regions in the united states and canada. project schedules, particularly in connection with larger, longer-term projects, can also create fluctuations in the services provided, which may adversely affect us in a given period. the financial condition of our customers and their access to capital, variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular period, regional, national and global economic and market conditions, timing of acquisitions, the timing and magnitude of acquisition and integration costs associated with acquisitions, dispositions, fluctuations in our equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates and interest rate fluctuations are examples of items that may also materially affect quarterly results. accordingly, our operating results in any particular period may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other period. you should read outlook and understanding margins included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for additional discussion of trends and challenges that may affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. website access and other information our website address is www.quantaservices.com. interested parties may obtain free electronic copies of our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to these reports through our website under the heading investors &amp; media/sec filings or through the website of the securities and exchange commission (the sec) at www.sec.gov. these reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the sec. in addition, our corporate governance guidelines, code of ethics and business conduct and the charters of each of our audit committee, compensation committee, governance and nominating committee and investment committee are posted on our website under the heading investors &amp; media/corporate governance. we intend to disclose on our website any amendments or waivers to our code of ethics and business conduct that are required to be disclosed pursuant to item 5.05 of form 8-k. free copies of these items may be obtained from our website. we will make available to any stockholder, without charge, copies of our annual report on form 10-k as filed with the sec. for copies of this or any other quanta publication, stockholders may submit a request in writing to quanta services, inc., attn: corporate secretary, 2800 post oak blvd., suite 2600, houston, tx 77056, or by phone at 713-629-7600. this annual report on form 10-k and our website contain information provided by other sources that we believe are reliable. we cannot provide assurance that the information obtained from other sources is accurate or complete. no information on our website is incorporated by reference herein. item 1a. risk factors our business is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described below. the matters described below are not the only risks and uncertainties facing our company. additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below also may impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected and we may not be able to achieve our goals or expectations. this annual report on form 10-k also includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended as forward-looking statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and should be read in conjunction with the section entitled uncertainty of forward-looking statements and information included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 12 table of contents index to financial statements our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. our business can be highly cyclical and subject to seasonal and other variations that can result in significant differences in operating results from quarter to quarter. for example, we typically experience lower gross and operating margins during winter months due to lower demand for our services and more difficult operating conditions. additionally, our quarterly results may be materially and adversely affected by: permitting, regulatory or customer-caused delays on projects; adverse weather conditions; variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular quarter; unfavorable regional, national or global economic and market conditions; a reduction in the demand for our services; the budgetary spending patterns of customers and federal, state and local governments; increases in construction and design costs; the timing and volume of work we perform; the magnitude of work performed under change orders and the timing of their recognition; the ability to successfully negotiate and obtain reimbursement for pending change orders; liabilities associated with pension plans in which our employees participate or withdrawals therefrom; changes in accounting pronouncements that require us to account for items differently than historical pronouncements have; losses experienced in our operations not otherwise covered by insurance; a change in the mix of our customers, contracts and business; payment risk associated with the financial condition of our customers; the termination or expiration of existing agreements; pricing pressures resulting from competition; changes in bonding and lien requirements applicable to existing and new agreements; implementation of various information systems, which could temporarily disrupt day-to-day operations; the recognition of tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions; costs we incur to support growth internally or through acquisitions or otherwise; the timing and integration of acquisitions and the magnitude of the related acquisition and integration costs; and the timing and significance of potential impairments of long-lived assets, equity or other investments, goodwill or other intangible assets. accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other quarter or for the entire year. negative economic and market conditions may adversely impact our customers future spending as well as payment for our services and, as a result, our operations and growth. the economy is still recovering from the recession in 2008 and 2009, and economic growth remains slow. it is uncertain when or if these conditions will improve to pre-recession levels. stagnant or declining economic 13 table of contents index to financial statements conditions have adversely impacted the demand for our services in the past and resulted in the delay, reduction or cancellation of certain projects and may adversely affect us in the future. additionally, many of our customers finance their projects through the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. many of our customers have not fully recovered from the negative impact of the recession. a reduction in cash flow or the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may result in a reduction in our customers spending for our services and may also impact the ability of our customers to pay amounts owed to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our ability to grow at historical levels. regulatory and environmental requirements and economic conditions affecting any of the industries we serve may lead to less demand for our services. because the vast majority of our revenue is derived from a few industries, regulatory and environmental requirements or a downturn in economic conditions affecting any of those industries would adversely affect our results of operations. customers in the industries we serve face stringent regulatory and environmental requirements and permitting processes as they implement plans for their projects, which can result in delays, reductions and cancellations of some of their projects. additionally, unfavorable economic conditions in any industry we serve could result in the delay, reduction or cancellation of projects by our customers, as well as cause our customers to outsource less work. these regulatory and economic factors have resulted in decreased demand for our services in the past, and they may continue to do so in the future, potentially impacting our operations and our ability to grow at historical levels. a number of other factors, including financing conditions and potential bankruptcies in the industries we serve or a prolonged economic downturn or recession, could adversely affect our customers and their ability or willingness to fund capital expenditures in the future or pay for past services. consolidation, competition, capital constraints or negative economic conditions in the electric power and natural gas and oil pipeline industries may also result in reduced spending by, or the loss of, one or more of our customers. project performance issues, including those caused by third parties, or certain contractual obligations may result in additional costs to us, reductions or delays in revenues or the payment of liquidated damages. many projects involve challenging engineering, procurement and construction phases that may occur over extended time periods, sometimes over several years. we may encounter difficulties as a result of delays in designs, engineering information or materials provided by the customer or a third party, delays or difficulties in equipment and material delivery, schedule changes, delays from our customer failure to timely obtain permits or rights-of-way or meet other regulatory requirements, weather-related delays and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, that can impact our ability to complete the project in accordance with the original delivery schedule. in addition, we occasionally contract with third-party subcontractors to assist us with the completion of contracts. any delay or failure by suppliers or by subcontractors in the completion of their portion of the project may result in delays in the overall progress of the project or may cause us to incur additional costs, or both. we also may encounter project delays due to local opposition, which may include injunctive actions as well as public protests, to the siting of electric power, natural gas or oil transmission lines, solar or wind projects, or other facilities. delays and additional costs may be substantial and, in some cases, we may be required to compensate the customer for such delays. we may not be able to recover all of such costs. in certain circumstances, we guarantee project completion by a scheduled acceptance date or achievement of certain acceptance and performance testing levels. failure to meet any of our schedules or performance requirements could also result in additional costs or penalties, including liquidated damages, and such amounts could exceed expected project profit. in extreme cases, the above-mentioned factors could cause project cancellations, and we may not be able to replace such projects with similar projects or at all. such delays or cancellations may impact our reputation or relationships with customers, adversely affecting our ability to secure new contracts. our customers may change or delay various elements of a project after its commencement, or the design, engineering information, equipment or materials that are to be provided by the customer or other parties may be deficient or delivered later than required by the project schedule, resulting in additional direct or indirect costs. 14 table of contents index to financial statements under these circumstances, we generally negotiate with the customer with respect to the amount of additional time required and the compensation to be paid to us. we are subject to the risk that we may be unable to obtain, through negotiation, arbitration, litigation or otherwise, adequate amounts to compensate us for the additional work or expenses incurred by us due to customer-requested change orders or failure by the customer to timely deliver items, such as engineering drawings or materials, required to be provided by the customer. litigation or arbitration of claims for compensation may be lengthy and costly, and it is often difficult to predict when and for how much the claims will be resolved. a failure to obtain adequate compensation for these matters could require us to record a reduction to amounts of revenue and gross profit recognized in prior periods under the percentage-of-completion accounting method. any such adjustments could be substantial. we may also be required to invest significant working capital to fund cost overruns while the resolution of claims is pending, which could adversely affect liquidity and financial results in any given period. our business is labor intensive, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees. our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability will be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy. for instance, we may experience shortages of qualified journeyman linemen, who are integral to the provision of transmission and distribution services under our electric power infrastructure services segment. in addition, in our natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services segment, there is limited availability of experienced supervisors and foremen that can oversee large mainline pipe projects. a shortage in the supply of these skilled personnel creates competitive hiring markets and may result in increased labor expenses. labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues or profitability. our use of fixed price contracts could adversely affect our business and results of operations. we currently generate a portion of our revenues under fixed price contracts. we also expect to generate a greater portion of our revenues under this type of contract in the future as larger projects, such as electric power and pipeline transmission build-outs and utility-scale solar facilities, become a more significant aspect of our business. we assume risks related to revenue and cost on fixed-priced contracts. actual revenues and project costs can vary, sometimes substantially, from our original projections due to changes in a variety of factors including: unforseen circumstances not included in our cost estimates or covered by our contract for which we cannot obtain adequate compensation; changes in the cost of equipment, commodities, materials or labor; unanticipated costs or claims due to customer-caused delays, errors in specifications or designs, or contract termination and our ability to obtain reimbursement for such costs; weather conditions; failure to perform by our project owners, suppliers or subcontractors; difficulties in obtaining required permits or approvals; changes in laws and regulations; and general economic conditions. these variations, along with other risks inherent in performing fixed price contracts, may cause actual revenue and gross profits for a project to differ from those we originally estimated and could result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. depending upon the size of a particular project, variations from the estimated contract costs could have a significant impact on our operating results for any fiscal period. 15 table of contents index to financial statements our use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits. as discussed in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data , a significant portion of our revenues are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, utilizing the cost-to-cost method. this method is used because management considers expended costs to be the best available measure of progress on these contracts. this accounting method is generally accepted for fixed price contracts. the percentage-of-completion accounting practice we use results in our recognizing contract revenues and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. the earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability. contract losses are recognized in full when determined to be probable and reasonably estimable, and contract profit estimates are adjusted based on ongoing reviews of contract profitability. further, a substantial portion of our contracts contain various cost and performance incentives. penalties are recorded when known or finalized, which generally occurs during the latter stages of the contract. in addition, we record cost recovery claims when we believe recovery is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. actual collection of claims could differ from estimated amounts and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings. in certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be significant. our operating results can be negatively affected by weather conditions. we perform substantially all of our services in the outdoors. as a result, adverse weather conditions, such as rainfall or snow, may affect our productivity in performing our services or may temporarily prevent us from performing services. the effect of weather delays on projects that are under fixed price arrangements may be greater if we are unable to adjust the project schedule for such delays. a reduction in our productivity in any given period or our inability to meet guaranteed schedules may adversely affect the profitability of our projects, and as a result, our results of operations. we may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth. our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to: expand the range of services we offer to customers to address their evolving network needs; attract new customers; increase the number of projects performed for existing customers; hire and retain qualified employees; expand geographically, including internationally; and address the challenges presented by stringent regulatory, environmental and permitting requirements and difficult economic or market conditions that may affect us or our customers. in addition, our customers may cancel, delay or reduce the number or size of projects available to us for a variety of reasons, including capital constraints or inability to meet regulatory requirements. many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies for achieving internal growth will be successful. our business is highly competitive. the specialty contracting business is served by numerous small, owner-operated private companies, some public companies and several large regional companies. in addition, relatively few barriers prevent entry into some areas of our business. as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become one of our competitors. a substantial portion of our revenues is directly or 16 table of contents index to financial statements indirectly dependent on winning new contracts. the timing of when project awards will be made is unpredictable and often involves complex and lengthy negotiations and bidding processes. these processes can be impacted by a wide variety of factors, including price, governmental approvals, financing contingencies, commodity prices, environmental conditions and overall market and economic conditions. we are currently experiencing the impacts of competitive pricing in certain of the markets we serve, such as the electric power market with respect to smaller scale transmission projects and distribution services. in addition, our bids may not be successful because of a client perception of our ability to perform the work or a client perception of technology advantages held by our competitors as well as other factors. certain of our competitors may have lower overhead cost structures. therefore, they may be able to provide their services at lower rates than we are able to provide. in addition, some of our competitors have significant resources, including financial, technical and marketing resources. we cannot be certain that our competitors do not have or will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services. similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position within the specialty contracting business or maintain our customer base at current levels. we also face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers. electric power and natural gas and oil pipeline service providers usually employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services we do, and we cannot be certain that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource services in the future. changes in government spending and legislative actions and initiatives relating to renewable energy and electric power may adversely affect demand for our services. demand for our services may not result from renewable energy initiatives. while many states currently have mandates in place that require specified percentages of power to be generated from renewable sources, states could reduce those mandates or make them optional, which could reduce, delay or eliminate renewable energy development in the affected states. additionally, renewable energy is generally more expensive to produce and may require additional power generation sources as backup. the locations of renewable energy projects are often remote and are not viable unless new or expanded transmission infrastructure to transport the power to demand centers is economically feasible. furthermore, funding for renewable energy initiatives may not be available, which has been further constrained as a result of tight credit markets. these factors have resulted in fewer renewable energy projects than anticipated and a delay in the construction of these projects and the related infrastructure, which has adversely affected the demand for our services. these factors could continue to result in delays or reductions in projects, which could further negatively impact our business. the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 (arra) provides for various stimulus programs, such as grants, loan guarantees and tax incentives, relating to renewable energy, energy efficiency and electric power infrastructure. some of these programs have expired, which may affect the economic feasibility of future projects. additionally, while a significant amount of stimulus funds have been awarded, we cannot predict the timing and scope of any investments to be made under stimulus funding or whether stimulus funding will result in increased demand for our services. investments for renewable energy, electric power infrastructure and telecommunications fiber deployment under arra programs may not occur, may be less than anticipated or may be delayed, any of which would negatively impact demand for our services. other current and potential legislative or regulatory initiatives may not result in increased demand for our services. examples include legislation or regulations to require utilities to meet reliability standards, to ease siting and right-of-way issues for the construction of transmission lines, and to encourage installation of new electric power transmission and renewable energy generation facilities. it is not certain whether existing legislation will create sufficient incentives for new projects, when or if proposed legislative initiatives will be enacted or whether any potentially beneficial provisions will be included in the final legislation. there are also a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to address greenhouse gas emissions, which are in various phases of discussion or implementation. the outcome of federal and state actions to address global climate change could negatively affect the operations of our customers through costs of compliance or restraints on projects, which could reduce their demand for our services. 17 table of contents index to financial statements we are self-insured against certain potential liabilities. although we maintain insurance policies with respect to employer liability, general liability, auto and workers compensation claims, since august 1, 2009, all policy deductible levels are $5.0 million per occurrence, other than employer liability, which is subject to a deductible of $1.0 million. we are primarily self-insured for all claims that do not exceed the amount of the applicable deductible. we also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $375,000 per claimant per year. our insurance policies include various coverage requirements, including the requirement to give appropriate notice. if we fail to comply with these requirements, our coverage could be denied. losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. these insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the number of incidents not reported. the accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals are adequate. if we were to experience insurance claims or costs significantly above our estimates, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected in a given period. during the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to lawsuits or indemnity claims, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. we have in the past been, and may in the future be, named as a defendant in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings during the ordinary course of our business. these actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract, property damage, environmental liabilities, punitive damages, and civil penalties or other losses or injunctive or declaratory relief. in addition, we generally indemnify our customers for claims related to the services we provide and actions we take under our contracts with them, and, in some instances, we may be allocated risk through our contract terms for actions by our customers or other third parties. because our services in certain instances may be integral to the operation and performance of our customers infrastructure, we have been and may become subject to lawsuits or claims for any failure of the systems that we work on, even if our services are not the cause of such failures, and we could be subject to civil and criminal liabilities to the extent that our services contributed to any property damage, personal injury or system failure. insurance coverage may not be available or may be insufficient for these lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings. the outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings could result in significant costs and diversion of management attention to the business. payments of significant amounts, even if reserved, could adversely affect our reputation, liquidity and results of operations. for details on our existing litigation and claims, refer to note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. unavailability or cancellation of third party insurance coverage would increase our overall risk exposure as well as disrupt our operations. we maintain insurance coverage from third party insurers as part of our overall risk management strategy and because some of our contracts require us to maintain specific insurance coverage limits. there can be no assurance that any of our existing insurance coverage will be renewed upon the expiration of the coverage period or that future coverage will be affordable at the required limits. in addition, our third party insurers could fail, suddenly cancel our coverage or otherwise be unable to provide us with adequate insurance coverage. if any of these events occur, our overall risk exposure would increase and our operations could be disrupted. for example, we have significant operations in california and other states which have an increased risk of wildfires. should our insurer determine to exclude coverage for wildfires in the future, we could be exposed to significant liabilities and potentially a disruption of our california operations. if our risk exposure increases as a result of adverse changes in our insurance coverage, we could be subject to increased claims and liabilities that could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. 18 table of contents index to financial statements many of our contracts may be canceled on short notice or may not be renewed upon completion or expiration, and we may be unsuccessful in replacing our contracts in such events, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we could experience a decrease in our revenue, net income and liquidity if any of the following occur: our customers cancel a significant number of contracts or contracts having significant value; we fail to renew a significant number of our existing contracts; we complete a significant number of non-recurring projects and cannot replace them with similar projects; or we fail to reduce operating and overhead expenses consistent with any decrease in our revenue. many of our customers may cancel our contracts on short notice, typically 30 to 90 days, even if we are not in default under the contract. certain of our customers assign work to us on a project-by-project basis under master service agreements. under these agreements, our customers often have no obligation to assign a specific amount of work to us. our operations could decline significantly if the anticipated volume of work is not assigned to us, which will be more likely if customer spending decreases, for example, due to the slow recovery of the economy. many of our contracts, including our master service agreements, are opened to public bid at the expiration of their terms. there can be no assurance that we will be the successful bidder on our existing contracts that come up for re-bid. the nature of our business exposes us to warranty claims, which may reduce our profitability. under our contracts with customers, we typically provide a warranty for the services we provide, guaranteeing the work performed against defects in workmanship and material. the majority of our contracts have a warranty period of 12 months. as much of the work we perform is inspected by our customers for any defects in construction prior to acceptance of the project, the warranty claims that we have historically received have been minimal. additionally, materials used in construction are often provided by the customer or are warranted against defects from the supplier. however, certain projects, such as utility-scale solar facilities, may have longer warranty periods and include facility performance warranties that may be broader than the warranties we generally provide. in these circumstances, if warranty claims occurred, it could require us to re-perform the services or to repair or replace the warranted item, at a cost to us, and could also result in other damages if we are not able to adequately satisfy our warranty obligations. in addition, we may be required under contractual arrangements with our customers to warrant any defects or failures in materials we provide that we purchase from third parties. while we generally require the materials suppliers to provide us warranties that are consistent with those we provide to the customers, if any of these suppliers default on their warranty obligations to us, we may incur costs to repair or replace the defective materials for which we are not reimbursed. costs incurred as a result of warranty claims could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the loss of one or a few customers could have a material adverse effect on us. a few customers have in the past and may in the future account for a significant portion of our revenue in any one year or over a period of several consecutive years. although we have long-standing relationships with many of our significant customers, our customers may unilaterally reduce or discontinue their contracts with us at any time. our loss of business from a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our profitability and financial condition may be adversely affected by risks associated with the natural gas and oil pipeline industry, such as price fluctuations and supply and demand for natural gas. certain of our services, in particular those under our natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services segment, are exposed to risks associated with the natural gas and oil pipeline industry. these risks, which are not 19 table of contents index to financial statements subject to our control, include the volatility of natural gas and oil prices, the lack of demand for power generation from natural gas and a slowdown in the discovery or development of natural gas and/or oil reserves. specifically, lower natural gas and oil prices generally result in decreased spending by our customers in our natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services segment. the significant increase in the north american supply of natural gas due to ongoing development of unconventional shale formations has resulted in low natural gas prices for the past several years. while higher natural gas and oil prices generally result in increased infrastructure spending by these customers, sustained high energy prices could be an impediment to economic growth and could result in reduced infrastructure spending by such customers. higher prices could also decrease spending on natural gas fired electricity generation facilities and related infrastructure, an important component of our electric power infrastructure services business. additionally, higher prices will likely reduce demand for power generation from natural gas, which could result in decreased demand for the expansion of north america natural gas pipeline infrastructure, and consequently result in less capital spending by these customers and less demand for our services. further, if the discovery or development of natural gas and/or oil reserves slowed or stopped, customers would likely reduce capital spending on mainline pipe, gas gathering and compressor systems and other related infrastructure, resulting in less demand for our services. if the profitability of our business under the natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services segment were to decline, our overall profitability, results of operations and cash flows could also be adversely affected. backlog may not be realized or may not result in profits. backlog is difficult to determine with certainty. customers often have no obligation under our contracts to assign or release work to us, and many contracts may be terminated on short notice. reductions in backlog due to cancellation of one or more contracts or projects by a customer or for other reasons could significantly reduce the revenue and profit we actually receive from contracts included in backlog. in the event of a project cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but would not have a contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. the backlog we obtain in connection with any companies we acquire may not be as large as we believed or may not result in the revenue or profits we expected. in addition, projects that are delayed may remain in backlog for extended periods of time. all of these uncertainties are heightened by negative economic conditions and their impact on our customers spending, as well as the effects of regulatory requirements and weather conditions. consequently, we cannot assure that our estimates of backlog are accurate or that we will be able to realize our estimated backlog. our financial results are based upon estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. in preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states, several estimates and assumptions are used by management in determining the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses recognized during the periods presented and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities known to exist as of the date of the financial statements. these estimates and assumptions must be made because certain information that is used in the preparation of our financial statements is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available or is not capable of being readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. in some cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine and we must exercise significant judgment. estimates are used primarily in our assessment of the allowance for doubtful accounts, valuation of inventory, useful lives of assets, fair value assumptions in analyzing goodwill, other intangibles and long-lived asset impairments, equity investments, loan receivables, purchase price allocations, liabilities for self-insured and other claims, multi-employer pension plan withdrawal liabilities, revenue recognition for construction contracts inclusive of contractual change orders and claims, revenue recognition for fiber optic licensing contracts, share-based compensation, operating results of reportable segments, provision (benefit) for income taxes and the calculation of uncertain tax positions. actual results for all estimates could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 20 table of contents index to financial statements our inability to successfully execute our acquisition strategy may have an adverse impact on our growth strategy. our business strategy includes expanding our presence in the industries we serve through strategic acquisitions of companies that complement or enhance our business. the number of acquisition targets that meet our criteria may be limited, and we may also face competition for acquisition opportunities. some of our competitors may offer more favorable terms than us or have greater financial resources than we do. this competition may further limit our acquisition opportunities and our ability to grow through acquisitions or could raise the prices of acquisitions and make them less accretive or possibly not accretive to us. acquisitions that we may pursue may also involve significant cash expenditures, the incurrence or assumption of debt or burdensome regulatory requirements. any acquisition may ultimately have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. any of these factors could inhibit our ability to consummate future acquisitions, which could negatively affect our growth strategies. we may be unsuccessful at integrating businesses that either we have acquired or that we may acquire in the future, which may reduce the anticipated benefit from acquired businesses. as a part of our business strategy, we have acquired, and may seek to acquire in the future, companies that complement or enhance our business. the success of this strategy will depend on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquired businesses, such as the expansion of our existing operations, elimination of redundant costs and capitalizing on cross-selling opportunities. to realize these benefits, however, we must successfully integrate the operations of the acquired businesses with our existing operations. we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully integrate acquired companies with our existing operations without substantial costs, delays, disruptions or other operational or financial problems. additionally, if we do not implement proper overall business controls, our decentralized operating strategy could result in inconsistent operating and financial practices at the companies we acquire. issues related to the integration process may result in adverse impact to our revenues, earnings and cash flows. integrating our acquired companies involves a number of special risks that could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including: failure of acquired companies to achieve the results we expect; diversion of our management attention from operational and other matters; difficulties integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies; inability to retain key personnel of acquired companies; risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities; loss of business due to customer overlap or change from local or private ownership; risks arising from the prior operations of acquired companies, such as performance, operational, safety or workforce issues, or customer dissatisfaction; and potential disruptions of our business. our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of impairments of goodwill, other intangible assets or our investments. when we acquire a business, we record an asset called goodwill equal to the excess amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business we acquire. goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives cannot be amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairment, while intangible assets that have finite useful lives are amortized over their useful lives. the accounting literature provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for impairment. refer to item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies for a detailed discussion. management is required to make certain estimates and assumptions when allocating goodwill to reporting units and determining the fair value of a reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an 21 table of contents index to financial statements assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. fair value is determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches. absent any impairment indicators, we perform our impairment tests annually during the fourth quarter. if there is a decrease in market capitalization below book value in the future, this may be considered an impairment indicator. in addition, we enter into various types of investment arrangements in the normal course of business, each having unique terms and conditions. these investments may include equity interests we hold in business entities, including general or limited partnerships, contractual joint ventures or other forms of equity participation. these investments may also include our participation in different finance structures such as the extension of loans to project specific entities, the acquisition of convertible notes issued by project specific entities or other strategic financing arrangements. our equity method investments are carried at original cost and are included in other assets, net in our consolidated balance sheet and are adjusted for our proportionate share of the investees income, losses and distributions. equity investments are reviewed for impairment by assessing whether any decline in the fair value of the investment below the carrying value is other than temporary. in making this determination, factors such as the ability to recover the carrying amount of the investment and the inability of the investee to sustain future earnings capacity are evaluated in determining whether an impairment should be recognized. any future impairments, including impairments of goodwill, intangible assets or investments, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the period in which the impairment is recognized. new federal or state telecommunications regulations, or changes in, or interpretations of, existing regulations, could adversely affect our fiber optic licensing and other segment. many of our fiber optic licensing and other segment customers benefit from the universal service e-rate program, which was established by congress in the 1996 telecommunications act and is administered by the universal service administrative company (usac) under the oversight of the federal communications commission (fcc). under the e-rate program, schools, libraries and certain healthcare facilities may receive subsidies for certain approved telecommunications services, internet access and internal connections. from time to time, bills have been introduced in congress that would eliminate or curtail the e-rate program. passage of such actions by the fcc or usac to further limit e-rate subsidies could decrease the demand by certain customers for the services offered by our fiber optic licensing and other segment. the licensing services we provide through our fiber optic licensing and other segment are subject to regulation by the fcc, to the extent that they are interstate telecommunications services, and by state regulatory agencies, when wholly within a particular state. to remain eligible to provide services under the e-rate program, we must maintain telecommunications authorizations in every state where we operate, and we must obtain such authorizations in any new state where we plan to operate. changes in federal or state regulations could reduce the profitability of our fiber optic licensing and other segment, and delays in obtaining new authorizations could inhibit our ability to grow our fiber optic licensing and other segment in new geographic areas. we could be subject to fines if the fcc or a state regulatory agency were to determine that any of our activities or positions are not in compliance with certain regulations. if the profitability of our fiber optic licensing and other segment were to decline, or if the business of this segment were to become subject to fines, our overall results of operations and cash flows could also be adversely affected. our fiber optic licensing business is capital intensive and requires substantial investments, and returns on investments may be less than expected for various reasons. our fiber optic licensing business requires substantial amounts of capital investment to build out new fiber networks. in 2013, our proposed capital expenditures for our fiber optic licensing business are approximately $35 million to $45 million, $17.4 million of which is related to committed licensing arrangements as of december 31, 2012. although we generally do not commit capital to new networks until we have a committed license arrangement in place with at least one customer, we may not be able to recoup our initial investment in the 22 table of contents index to financial statements network, and we may not realize a return on the capital investment for an extended period of time. furthermore, the amount of capital that we invest in our fiber optic network may exceed planned expenditures as a result of various factors, including difficulty in obtaining permits or rights of way or unexpected increases in costs due to labor, materials or project productivity, which would result in a decrease in the returns on our capital investments if licensing fees for the network were committed and could not be renegotiated. new or developing technologies or significant competition in any of our markets could also negatively impact our fiber optic licensing business. any of these events could adversely affect our results of operations or result in an impairment of our fiber optic network. we extend credit to customers for purchases of our services and may enter into longer-term deferred payment arrangements or provide other financing or investment arrangements with certain of our customers, which subjects us to potential credit or investment risk that could, if realized, adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we grant credit, generally without collateral, to our customers, which include electric power utilities, natural gas and oil pipeline companies, governmental entities, general contractors, and builders, owners and managers of renewable energy facilities and commercial and industrial properties located primarily in the united states and canada. we may also agree to allow our customers to defer payment on projects until certain milestones have been met or until the projects are substantially completed, and customers typically withhold some portion of amounts due to us as retainage. in addition, we may provide other forms of financing to our customers or make investments in our customers projects, typically in situations where we also provide services in connection with the projects. our payment arrangements with our customers subject us to potential credit risk related to changes in business and economic factors affecting our customers, including material changes in our customers revenues or cash flows. these changes may also reduce the value of any financing or equity investment arrangements we have with our customers. many of our customers have been negatively impacted by uncertain economic conditions in recent years, and some may experience financial difficulties (including bankruptcies) that could impact our ability to collect amounts owed to us or impair the value of our investments in them. if we are unable to collect amounts owed to us, our cash flows would be reduced and we could experience losses if the uncollectible amounts exceeded current allowances. we would also recognize losses with respect to any investments that are impaired as a result of our customers financial difficulties. losses experienced could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. the risks of collectability and impairment losses may increase for projects where we provide services as well as make a financing or equity investment. the loss of key personnel could disrupt our business. we depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and on senior management of our operating units, including the businesses we acquire. although we typically enter into employment agreements with terms of one to three years with our executive officers and certain other key employees, we cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time or that key employees of our future acquisition targets will be willing to enter into such agreements. the loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business. we do not carry key-person life insurance on any of our employees. we may be required to contribute cash to meet our underfunded obligations in certain multi-employer pension plans. our collective bargaining agreements generally require us to participate with other companies in multi-employer pension plans. to the extent those plans are underfunded, the employee retirement income security act of 1974, as amended by the multi-employer pension plan amendments act of 1980, may subject us to substantial liabilities under those plans if we withdraw from them or they are terminated or experience a mass withdrawal. for example, in the fourth quarter of 2011, we recognized a $32.6 million liability when certain of our subsidiaries withdrew from an underfunded multi-employer pension plan. the amount of this liability is estimated based on information received from the multi-employer plan in 2011, although the plan has asserted 23 table of contents index to financial statements that additional amounts are due. the actual amount assessed by the plan for the withdrawal and the amount that we ultimately pay for the withdrawal liability may be materially different than the amount currently recorded. in addition, the pension protection act of 2006 added special funding and operational rules generally applicable to plan years beginning after 2007 for multi-employer plans that are classified as endangered, seriously endangered, or critical status. plans in these classifications must adopt measures to improve their funded status through a funding improvement or rehabilitation plan, which may require additional contributions from employers (which may take the form of a surcharge on benefit contributions) and/or modifications to retiree benefits. a number of multi-employer plans to which we contribute or may contribute in the future are in endangered, seriously endangered or critical status. the amount of additional funds we may be obligated to contribute to these plans in the future cannot be estimated, as such amounts will likely be based on future work that requires the specific use of union employees covered by these plans, and the amount of that future work and the number of employees that may be affected cannot reasonably be estimated. our performance of a significant amount of future services in areas that require us to utilize unionized employees covered by these affected plans, or a deterioration in the funding status of any of the plans to which our operating units contribute, could require significant additional contributions, which could detrimentally affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows if we are not able to adequately mitigate these costs. our unionized workforce and related obligations could adversely affect our operations. as of december 31, 2012, approximately 49% of our hourly employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. although the majority of the collective bargaining agreements prohibit strikes and work stoppages, certain of our unionized employees participated in a strike and work stoppage during january 2012, and we cannot be certain that strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the future. strikes or work stoppages can adversely impact our relationships with our customers and could cause us to lose business and decrease our revenue. our ability to complete future acquisitions could be adversely affected because of our union status for a variety of reasons. for instance, our union agreements may be incompatible with the union agreements of a business we want to acquire and some businesses may not want to become affiliated with a union-based company. additionally, we may increase our exposure to withdrawal liabilities for underfunded multi-employer pension plans to which an acquired company contributes. approximately 51% of our hourly employees are not unionized. under the current presidential administration, certain administrative and regulatory actions have been taken and are being considered that could create more flexibility and opportunity for labor unions to organize non-union workers and could result in a greater percentage of our workforce being subject to collective bargaining agreements, heightening the risks described above. in addition, certain of our customers require or prefer a non-union workforce, and they may reduce the amount of work assigned to us if our non-union labor crews were to become unionized, which could negatively affect our business and results of operations. we may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial or reputational impacts relating to occupational health and safety matters. our operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace. while we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources in our occupational health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operational risk and there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant liability exposure. although we have taken what we believe are appropriate precautions, we have suffered fatalities in the past and may suffer additional fatalities in the future. serious accidents, including fatalities, may subject us to substantial penalties, civil litigation or criminal prosecution. claims for damages to persons, including claims for bodily injury or loss of life, could result in substantial costs and liabilities, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash 24 table of contents index to financial statements flows. in addition, if our safety record were to substantially deteriorate over time or we were to suffer substantial penalties or criminal prosecution for violation of health and safety regulations, our customers could cancel our contracts and elect to procure future services from other providers. risks associated with operating in international markets could restrict our ability to expand globally and harm our business and prospects. our international operations are presently conducted primarily in canada and australia, but we have performed work in various other foreign countries, and we expect that the number of countries in which we operate could expand significantly over the next few years. economic conditions, including those resulting from wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts or volatility in the global markets, may adversely affect our customers, their demand for our services and their ability to pay for our services. in addition, our international operations include business and transactions for which we are paid in local currency. payments to us in currencies other than the u.s. dollar may exceed our local currency needs, leading to the accumulation of excess local currency, which, in certain instances, may be subject to either temporary blocking, costly taxes or tariffs, or other difficulties converting to u.s. dollars. there are numerous risks inherent in conducting our business internationally, including, but not limited to, potential instability in international markets, changes in regulatory requirements applicable to international operations, currency fluctuations in foreign countries, political, economic and social conditions in foreign countries and complex u.s. and foreign laws and treaties, including tax laws. these risks could restrict our ability to provide services to international customers, operate our international business profitably, or fund our strategic objectives, and our overall business, liquidity and results of operations could be negatively impacted by our foreign activities. we could be adversely affected by our failure to comply with the laws applicable to our foreign activities, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and other similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions prohibit u.s.-based companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. we pursue opportunities in certain parts of the world that experience government corruption, and in certain circumstances, compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. our policies mandate compliance with all applicable anti-bribery laws. further, we require our partners, subcontractors, agents and others who work for us or on our behalf to comply with the fcpa and other anti-bribery laws. although we have policies and procedures designed to ensure that we, our employees, our agents and others who work with us in foreign countries comply with the fcpa and other anti-bribery laws, there is no assurance that such policies or procedures will protect us against liability under the fcpa or other laws for actions taken by our agents, employees and intermediaries. if we are found to be liable for fcpa violations (either due to our own acts or inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer from severe criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged fcpa violations is expensive and could consume significant time and attention of our senior management. we may not have access in the future to sufficient funding to finance desired growth and operations. if we cannot secure future funds or financing on acceptable terms, we may be unable to support our growth strategy or future operations. we cannot readily predict the ability of certain customers to pay for past services, and unfavorable economic conditions, such as those experienced over recent years, may negatively impact the ability of our customers to pay amounts owed to us. we may also use cash for acquisitions, as well as for investments, both of which are elements of our growth strategy, but we cannot readily predict the timing, size and success of our acquisition or investment efforts. using cash for acquisitions and investments limits our financial flexibility and may increase our need to seek additional capital through future debt or equity financings. our existing credit facility contains significant restrictions on our operational and financial flexibility, including 25 table of contents index to financial statements our ability to incur additional debt or conduct certain types of preferred equity financings, and if we seek more debt, we may have to agree to additional covenants that limit our operational and financial flexibility. if we seek additional debt or equity financings, we cannot be certain that additional debt or equity will be available to us on terms acceptable to us or at all. furthermore, our credit facility is based upon existing commitments from several banks. banks have become more restrictive in their lending practices following the difficulties in the credit markets, and some may be unable or unwilling to fund their commitments, which may limit our access to the capital needed to fund our growth and operations. in addition, we rely on financing companies to fund the leasing of certain of our trucks and trailers, support vehicles and specialty construction equipment. credit market conditions may cause certain of these financing companies to restrict or withhold access to capital to fund the leasing of additional equipment. although we are not dependent on any single equipment lessor, a widespread lack of available capital to fund the leasing of equipment could negatively impact our future operations. additionally, the market price of our common stock may change significantly in response to various factors and events beyond our control, which will impact our ability to use equity to obtain funds. a variety of events may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly, including overall market conditions or volatility, a shortfall in our operating results from those anticipated, negative results or other unfavorable information relating to our market peers or the other risks described in this annual report on form 10-k. our participation in joint ventures exposes us to liability and/or harm to our reputation for failures of our partners. as part of our business, we have entered into joint venture arrangements and may enter into additional joint venture arrangements in the future. the purpose of these joint ventures is typically to combine skills and resources to allow for the performance of particular projects. success on these jointly performed projects depends in large part on whether our joint venture partners satisfy their contractual obligations. we and our joint venture partners are generally jointly and severally liable for all liabilities and obligations of our joint ventures. if a joint venture partner fails to perform or is financially unable to bear its portion of required capital contributions or other obligations, including liabilities stemming from claims or lawsuits, we could be required to make additional investments, provide additional services or pay more than our proportionate share of a liability to make up for our partner shortfall. further, if we are unable to adequately address our partner performance issues, the customer may terminate the project, which could result in legal liability to us, harm our reputation and reduce our profit on a project. we are in the process of implementing an information technology (it) solution, which could temporarily disrupt day-to-day operations at certain operating units. we continue to implement a comprehensive it solution that we believe will allow for the interface between functions such as accounting and finance, human resources, operations, and fleet management. continued development and implementation of the it solution will require substantial financial and personnel resources. while the it solution is intended to improve and enhance our information systems, implementation of new information systems at each operating unit exposes us to the risks of start-up of the new system and integration of that system with our existing systems and processes, including possible disruption of our financial reporting. there is no guarantee that we will realize economic or other intended benefits from continued development and implementation of the it solution. additionally, the it solution may not be developed or implemented as timely or as accurately as planned. failure to properly implement the it solution could result in substantial disruptions to our business, including coordinating and processing our normal business activities, testing and recording of certain data necessary to provide oversight over our disclosure controls and procedures and effective internal controls over our financial reporting, and other unforeseen problems. failure to adequately protect critical data and technology systems could materially affect our operations. it solution failures, network disruptions and breaches of data security could disrupt our operations by causing delays or cancellation of customer orders, impeding processing of transactions and reporting financial results, resulting in the unintentional disclosure of customer or our information, or damage to our reputation. 26 table of contents index to financial statements while management has taken steps to address these concerns by implementing network security and internal control measures, there can be no assurance that a system failure or data security breach (particularly in light of our ongoing implementation of the it solution) will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. our dependence on suppliers, subcontractors and equipment manufacturers could expose us to the risk of loss in our operations. on certain projects, we rely on suppliers to obtain the necessary materials and subcontractors to perform portions of our services. we also rely on equipment manufacturers to provide us with the equipment required to conduct our operations. although we are not dependent on any single supplier, subcontractor or equipment manufacturer, any substantial limitation on the availability of required suppliers, subcontractors or equipment manufacturers could negatively impact our operations. the risk of a lack of available suppliers, subcontractors or equipment manufacturers may be heightened as a result of market and economic conditions. to the extent we cannot engage subcontractors or acquire equipment or materials, we could experience losses in the performance of our operations. fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates may have a greater impact on our financial results as we expand into international markets. for the year ended december 31, 2012, we derived $861.5 million, or 14.6%, of our consolidated revenues from foreign operations, the substantial majority of which was earned in canada. we intend to expand the volume of services that we provide internationally. as a result, our reported financial condition and results of operations may be exposed to the effects that fluctuating exchange rates have on the process of translating the financial statements of our international operations, which are usually denominated in local currencies, into the u.s. dollar. our business growth could outpace the capability of our decentralized management infrastructure. we cannot be certain that our management infrastructure will be adequate to support our operations as they expand. for example, the ability to internally communicate, coordinate and execute business strategies, plans and tactics may be negatively impacted by our increasing size and complexity. a decentralized structure places significant control and decision-making powers in the hands of local management. this contributes to the risk that we may be slower or less able to identify or react to problems affecting key business matters than we would in a more centralized environment. the lack of timely access to information may impact the quality of decision making by management. our decentralized organization creates the possibility that our operating subsidiaries assume excessive risk without appropriate guidance from our centralized legal, accounting, tax, and treasury functions as to the potential overall impact. future growth also could impose significant additional responsibilities on members of our senior management, including the need to recruit and integrate new senior level managers and executives. we cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain such additional managers and executives. to the extent that we are unable to manage our growth effectively, or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified management, we may not be able to expand our operations or execute our business plan. we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects if we are not able to obtain surety bonds. a portion of our business depends on our ability to provide surety bonds or other financial assurances. current or future market conditions, including losses incurred in the construction industry or as a result of large corporate bankruptcies, as well as changes in our sureties assessment of our operating and financial risk, could cause our surety providers to decline to issue or renew, or substantially reduce the amount of, bid and/or performance bonds for our work and could increase our bonding costs. these actions could be taken on short notice. if our surety providers were to limit or eliminate our access to bonding, our alternatives would include 27 table of contents index to financial statements seeking bonding capacity from other sureties, finding more business that does not require bonds or posting other forms of collateral for project performance, such as letters of credit or cash. we may be unable to secure these alternatives in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all, which could affect our ability to bid for or work on future projects requiring financial assurances. we have also granted security interests in various of our assets to collateralize our obligations to our sureties. furthermore, under standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue or continue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing or renewing any bonds. if we were to experience an interruption or reduction in the availability of bonding capacity as a result of these or any other reasons, we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects that would require bonding. our failure to comply with environmental laws could result in significant liabilities. our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including those dealing with the handling and disposal of waste products, pcbs, fuel storage and air quality. we perform work in many different types of underground environments. if the field location maps supplied to us are not accurate, or if objects are present in the soil that are not indicated on the field location maps, our underground work could strike objects in the soil, some of which may contain pollutants. these objects may also rupture, resulting in the discharge of pollutants. in such circumstances, we may be liable for fines and damages, and we may be unable to obtain reimbursement from the parties providing the incorrect information. we perform work in and around environmentally sensitive areas such as rivers, lakes and wetlands. in addition, we perform directional drilling operations below certain environmentally sensitive terrains and water bodies. due to the inconsistent nature of the terrain and water bodies, it is possible that such directional drilling may cause a surface fracture, resulting in the release of subsurface materials. these subsurface materials may contain contaminants in excess of amounts permitted by law, potentially exposing us to remediation costs and fines. we also own and lease several facilities at which we store our equipment. some of these facilities contain fuel storage tanks that are above or below ground. if these tanks were to leak, we could be responsible for the cost of remediation as well as potential fines. in addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or leaks, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur significant costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. in certain instances, we have obtained indemnification or covenants from third parties (including predecessors or lessors) for such clean-up and other obligations and liabilities that we believe are adequate to cover such obligations and liabilities. however, such third-party indemnities or covenants may not cover all of our costs and the indemnitors may not pay amounts owed to us, and such unanticipated obligations or liabilities, or future obligations and liabilities, may have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition or cash flows. further, we cannot be certain that we will be able to identify or be indemnified for all potential environmental liabilities relating to any acquired business. there are also other legislative and regulatory proposals to address greenhouse gas emissions. these proposals, if enacted, could result in a variety of regulatory programs including potential new regulations, additional charges to fund energy efficiency activities, or other regulatory actions. any of these actions could result in increased costs associated with our operations and impact the prices we charge our customers. for example, if new regulations are adopted regulating greenhouse gas emissions from mobile sources such as cars and trucks, we could experience a significant increase in environmental compliance costs in light of our large rolling-stock fleet. in addition, if our operations are perceived to result in high greenhouse gas emissions, our reputation could suffer. we may not be successful in continuing to meet the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 has many requirements applicable to us regarding corporate governance and financial reporting, including the requirements for management to report on our internal controls over 28 table of contents index to financial statements financial reporting and for our independent registered public accounting firm to express an opinion over the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. during 2012, we continued actions to ensure our ability to comply with these requirements. as of december 31, 2012, our internal control over financial reporting was effective; however, there can be no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in future years. failure to maintain effective internal controls or the identification of significant internal control deficiencies in acquisitions already made or made in the future could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock and our other publicly traded securities, the reduced ability to obtain financing, the loss of customers, penalties and additional expenditures to meet the requirements. if we are unable to enforce our intellectual property rights or if our intellectual property rights become obsolete, our competitive position could be adversely impacted. we utilize a variety of intellectual property rights in our services. we view our portfolio of proprietary energized services tools and techniques, as well as our other process and design technologies, as one of our competitive strengths, which we believe differentiates our service offerings. we may not be able to successfully preserve these intellectual property rights in the future, and these rights could be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries in which our services may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. we also license certain technologies from third parties, and there is a risk that our relationships with licensors may terminate or expire or may be interrupted or harmed. if we are unable to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights, or if intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings succeed against us, our ability to differentiate our service offerings could be reduced. in addition, if our intellectual property rights or work processes become obsolete, we may not be able to differentiate our service offerings, and some of our competitors may be able to offer more attractive services to our customers. as a result, our business and revenue could be materially and adversely affected. we may incur additional healthcare costs arising from federal healthcare reform legislation. in march 2010, the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 were signed into law in the u.s. this legislation expands health care coverage to many uninsured individuals and expands coverage to those already insured. the changes required by this legislation could cause us to incur additional healthcare and other costs, although we do not expect any material short-term impact on our financial results as a result of the legislation. we are currently assessing the extent of any long-term impact from the legislation. opportunities within the government arena could subject us to increased governmental regulation and costs. most government contracts are awarded through a regulated competitive bidding process. as we pursue increased opportunities in the government arena, management focus associated with the start-up and bidding process may be diverted away from other opportunities. involvement with government contracts could require a significant amount of costs to be incurred before any revenues are realized from these contracts. in addition, as a government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and other public sector regulations, any deemed violation of which could lead to fines or penalties or a loss of business. government agencies routinely audit and investigate government contractors. government agencies may review a contractor performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. if a government agency determines that costs were improperly allocated to specific contracts, such costs will not be reimbursed or a refund of previously reimbursed costs may be required. if a government agency alleges or proves improper activity, civil and criminal penalties could be imposed and serious reputational harm could result. many government contracts must be appropriated each year. if appropriations are not made in subsequent years, we would not realize all of the potential revenues from any awarded contracts. 29 table of contents index to financial statements certain provisions of our corporate governing documents could make an acquisition of our company more difficult. the following provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as currently in effect, as well as delaware law, could discourage potential proposals to acquire us, delay or prevent a change in control of us or limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock: our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to issue blank check preferred stock and to adopt amendments to our bylaws; our bylaws contain restrictions regarding the right of stockholders to nominate directors and to submit proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings; our certificate of incorporation and bylaws restrict the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to act by written consent; and we are subject to provisions of delaware law which prohibit us from engaging in any of a broad range of business transactions with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date such stockholder became classified as an interested stockholder. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 70 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary exposure to market risk relates to unfavorable changes in concentration of credit risk, interest rates and currency exchange rates. credit risk. we are subject to concentrations of credit risk related to our cash and cash equivalents and our accounts receivable, including amounts related to unbilled accounts receivable and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts. substantially all of our cash investments are managed by what we believe to be high credit quality financial institutions. in accordance with our investment policies, these institutions are authorized to invest this cash in a diversified portfolio of what we believe to be high-quality investments, which primarily include interest-bearing demand deposits, money market mutual funds and investment grade commercial paper with original maturities of three months or less. although we do not currently believe the principal amounts of these investments are subject to any material risk of loss, changes in economic conditions could impact the interest income we receive from these investments. in addition, as we grant credit under normal payment terms, generally without collateral, we are subject to potential credit risk related to our customers ability to pay for services provided. this risk may be heightened as a result of the depressed economic and financial market conditions that have existed in recent years. however, we believe the concentration of credit risk related to trade accounts receivable and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts is limited because of the diversity of our customers. we perform ongoing credit risk assessments of our customers and financial institutions and in some cases we obtain collateral or other security from our customers. interest rate and market risk. currently, we do not have any significant assets or obligations with exposure to significant interest rate and market risk. although we had credit facility borrowings outstanding at various times in 2012 which exposed us to interest rate risk, there were no credit facility borrowings outstanding at december 31, 2012. currency risk. we conduct operations primarily in the u.s. and canada. future earnings are subject to change due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates when transactions are denominated in currencies other than our functional currencies. to minimize the need for foreign currency forward contracts to hedge this exposure, our objective is to manage foreign currency exposure by maintaining a minimal consolidated net asset or net liability position in a currency other than the functional currency. we may enter into foreign currency derivative contracts to manage some of our foreign currency exposures. these exposures may include revenues generated in foreign jurisdictions and anticipated purchase transactions, including foreign currency capital expenditures and lease commitments. there were no open foreign currency derivative contracts at december 31, 2012. 70 table of contents index to financial statementsrisk factors 13 risk factors for additional information. customers, strategic alliances and preferred provider relationships our customers include electric power and oil and gas companies, as well as commercial, industrial and governmental entities. we have a large and diverse customer base, including many of the leading companies in 7 table of contents the industries we serve. our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 34% of our consolidated revenues during the year ended december 31, 2013. our largest customer accounted for approximately 9% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended december 31, 2013. although we have a centralized marketing and business development strategy, management at each of our operating units is responsible for developing and maintaining successful long-term relationships with customers. our operating unit management teams build upon existing customer relationships to secure additional projects and increase revenue from our current customer base. many of these customer relationships originated decades ago and are maintained through a partnering approach to account management that includes project evaluation and consulting, quality performance, performance measurement and direct customer contact. additionally, operating unit management focuses on pursuing growth opportunities with prospective new customers. we encourage operating unit management to cross-sell services of our other operating units to their customers and to coordinate with our other operating units to pursue projects, especially those that are larger and more complicated. our business development group supports the operating units activities by promoting and marketing our services for existing and prospective large national accounts, as well as projects that would require services from multiple operating units. we are a preferred vendor to many of our customers. as a preferred vendor, we have met minimum standards for a specific category of service, maintained a high level of performance and agreed to certain payment terms and negotiated rates. we strive to maintain preferred vendor status as we believe it provides us an advantage in the award of future work for the applicable customer. we believe that our strategic relationships with customers in the electric power and oil and gas industries will continue to result in future opportunities. many of these relationships take the form of strategic alliance or long-term maintenance agreements. strategic alliance agreements generally state an intention to work together over a period of time and/or on specific types of projects, and many provide us with preferential bidding procedures. strategic alliances and long-term maintenance agreements are typically agreements for an initial term of approximately two to four years that may include renewal options to extend the initial term. backlog backlog is not a term recognized under united states generally accepted accounting principles; however, it is a common measurement used in our industry. our methodology for determining backlog may not be comparable to the methodologies used by other companies. our backlog represents the amount of consolidated revenue that we expect to realize from future work under construction contracts, long-term maintenance contracts, master service agreements (msas) and licensing agreements. these estimates include revenues from the remaining portion of firm orders not yet completed and on which work has not yet begun, as well as revenues from change orders, renewal options, and funded and unfunded portions of government contracts to the extent that they are reasonably expected to occur. for purposes of calculating backlog, we include 100% of estimated revenues attributable to consolidated joint ventures and variable interest entities (vies). the following table presents our total backlog by reportable segment as of december 31, 2013 and 2012, along with an estimate of the backlog amounts expected to be realized within 12 months of each balance sheet date (in thousands): backlog as of december 31, 2013 backlog as of december 31, 2012 12 month total 12 month total electric power infrastructure services $ 3,346,721 $ 5,964,061 $ 2,864,870 $ 4,918,178 oil and gas infrastructure services 1,515,612 2,218,503 797,044 1,566,316 fiber optic licensing and other 137,883 545,503 145,039 502,523 total $ 5,000,216 $ 8,728,067 $ 3,806,953 $ 6,987,017 8 table of contents revenue estimates included in our backlog can be subject to change as a result of project accelerations, cancellations or delays due to various factors, including but not limited to commercial issues, regulatory requirements and adverse weather. these factors can also cause revenue amounts to be realized in periods and at levels different than originally projected. generally, our customers are not contractually committed to specific volumes of services under our msas, and while we did not experience any material cancellations during the current periods, most of our contracts may be terminated, typically upon 30 to 90 days notice, even if we are not in default under the contract. we determine the estimated amount of backlog for work under msas by using recurring historical trends inherent in current msas, factoring in seasonal demand and projected customer needs based upon ongoing communications with the customer. in addition, many of our msas, as well as contracts for fiber optic licensing, are subject to renewal options. as of december 31, 2013 and 2012, msas accounted for approximately 31% and 34% of our estimated 12 month backlog and approximately 44% and 45% of total backlog. there can be no assurance as to our customers actual requirements or that our estimates are accurate. competition the markets in which we operate are highly competitive. we compete with other contractors in most of the geographic markets in which we operate, and several of our competitors are large companies that have significant financial, technical and marketing resources. in addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry into some of the industries in which we operate and, as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become a competitor. a significant portion of our revenues is currently derived from unit price or fixed price agreements, and price is often an important factor in the award of such agreements. accordingly, we could be underbid by our competitors in an effort by them to procure such business. we believe that as demand for our services increases, customers often consider other factors in choosing a service provider, including technical expertise and experience, financial and operational resources, nationwide presence, industry reputation and dependability, which we expect to benefit larger contractors such as us. in addition, competition may lessen as industry resources, such as labor supplies, approach capacity. there can be no assurance, however, that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services, or that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position. we also face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers, including electric power, oil and gas and engineering companies, which employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services as those provided by us. although a significant portion of these services is currently outsourced by many of our customers, in particular services relating to larger energy transmission infrastructure projects, there can be no assurance that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource these services in the future. employees as of december 31, 2013, we had approximately 20,900 employees, consisting of approximately 3,200 salaried employees, including executive officers, professional and administrative staff, project managers and engineers, job superintendents and clerical personnel, and approximately 17,700 hourly employees, the number of which fluctuates depending upon the number and size of the projects we undertake at any particular time. approximately 58% of our hourly employees at december 31, 2013 were covered by collective bargaining agreements, primarily with the international brotherhood of electrical workers (ibew), the canadian union skilled workers (cusw), australia workers union and the four pipeline construction trade unions administered by the pipe line contractors association (plca), which are the laborers international union of north america, international brotherhood of teamsters (teamsters), united association of plumbers and pipefitters and the international union of operating engineers. these collective bargaining agreements require the payment of specified wages to our union employees, the observance of certain workplace rules and the payment of certain amounts to multi-employer pension plans and employee benefit trusts rather than us sponsoring or administering the benefit programs provided on behalf of our employees. these collective bargaining agreements have varying terms and expiration dates. the majority of the collective bargaining agreements contain provisions that prohibit work stoppages or strikes, even during specified negotiation periods relating to agreement renewals, and provide for binding arbitration dispute resolution in the event of prolonged disagreement. 9 table of contents we provide health, welfare and benefit plans for employees who are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. we have a 401(k) plan pursuant to which eligible employees who are not provided retirement benefits through a collective bargaining agreement may make contributions through a payroll deduction. we make matching cash contributions of 100% of each employee contribution up to 3% of that employee salary and 50% of each employee contribution between 3% and 6% of such employee salary, up to the maximum amount permitted by law. our industry is experiencing a shortage of journeyman linemen in certain geographic areas. in response to the shortage and to attract qualified employees, we utilize various ibew and national electrical contractors association (neca) training programs and support the joint ibew/neca apprenticeship program which trains qualified electrical workers. certain of our canadian operations also support the cusw apprenticeship programs for training construction and maintenance electricians and powerline technicians. we have also established apprenticeship training programs approved by the u.s. department of labor for employees not subject to the ibew/neca apprenticeship program, as well as additional company-wide and project-specific employee training and educational programs. we believe our relationships with our employees and union representatives are good. materials our customers typically supply most or all of the materials required for each job. however, for some of our contracts, we may procure all or part of the materials required. as we continue to expand our comprehensive engineering, procurement and construction offerings (epc), particularly associated with utility scale solar projects, the cost of materials may become a proportionately larger component of our consolidated cost of services. we purchase such materials from a variety of sources and do not anticipate experiencing any significant difficulties in procuring such materials. training, quality assurance and safety performance of our services requires the use of equipment and exposure to conditions that can be dangerous. although we are committed to a policy of operating safely and prudently, we have been and will continue to be subject to claims by employees, customers and third parties for property damage and personal injuries resulting from performance of our services. our operating units have established comprehensive safety policies, procedures and regulations and require that employees complete prescribed training and service programs prior to performing more sophisticated and technical jobs, which is in addition to those programs required, if applicable, by the ibew/neca apprenticeship program, the training programs sponsored by the four trade unions administered by the plca, the apprenticeship training programs sponsored by the cusw or our equivalent programs. under the ibew/neca apprenticeship program, all journeyman linemen are required to complete a minimum of 7,000 hours of on-the-job training, approximately 144 hours of classroom education and extensive testing and certification. certain of our operating units have established apprenticeship training programs approved by the u.s. department of labor that prescribe equivalent training requirements for employees who are not otherwise subject to the requirements of the ibew/neca apprenticeship program. similarly, the cusw offers apprenticeship training for construction and maintenance electricians that requires five terms of 1,700 hours each, combining classroom and on-the-job training, as well as training for powerline technicians that also involves classroom and jobsite training over a four-year period. in addition, the laborers international union of north america, international brotherhood of teamsters, united association of plumbers and pipefitters and the international union of operating engineers have training programs specifically designed for developing and improving the skills of their members who work in the pipeline construction industry. our operating units also benefit from sharing best practices regarding their training and educational programs and comprehensive safety policies and regulations. 10 table of contents regulation our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws and regulations including: licensing, permitting and inspection requirements applicable to contractors, electricians and engineers; regulations relating to worker safety and environmental protection; permitting and inspection requirements applicable to construction projects; wage and hour regulations; regulations relating to transportation of equipment and materials, including licensing and permitting requirements; building and electrical codes; telecommunications regulations relating to our fiber optic licensing business; and special bidding, procurement and other requirements on government projects. we believe that we have all the licenses required to conduct our operations and that we are in substantial compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating licenses, as well as give rise to termination or cancellation rights under our contracts or disqualify us from future bidding opportunities. environmental matters and climate change impacts we are committed to the protection of the environment and train our employees to perform their duties accordingly. we are subject to numerous federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations governing our operations, including the handling, transportation and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous substances and wastes, as well as emissions and discharges into the environment, including discharges to air, surface water, groundwater and soil. we also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and cleanup responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. under certain of these laws and regulations, such liabilities can be imposed for cleanup of previously owned or operated properties, or properties to which hazardous substances or wastes were sent by current or former operations at our facilities, regardless of whether we directly caused the contamination or violated any law at the time of discharge or disposal. the presence of contamination from such substances or wastes could interfere with ongoing operations or adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or use our properties as collateral for financing. in addition, we could be held liable for significant penalties and damages under certain environmental laws and regulations and also could be subject to a revocation of our licenses or permits, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. our contracts with our customers may also impose liabilities on us regarding environmental issues that arise through the performance of our services. from time to time, we may incur costs and obligations for correcting environmental noncompliance matters and for remediation at or relating to certain of our properties. we believe that we are in substantial compliance with our environmental obligations to date and that any such obligations will not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial performance. the potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain. climate change may result in, among other things, changes in rainfall patterns, storm patterns and intensities and temperature levels. as discussed elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k, including in item 1a. risk factors , our operating results are significantly influenced by weather. therefore, significant changes in historical weather patterns could significantly impact our future operating results. for example, if climate change results in drier weather and more accommodating temperatures over a greater period of time in a given period, we may be able to increase our productivity, which could have a positive impact on our revenues and gross margins. in addition, 11 table of contents if climate change results in an increase in severe weather, such as hurricanes and ice storms, we could experience a greater amount of higher margin emergency restoration service work, which generally has a positive impact on our gross margins. conversely, if climate change results in a greater amount of rainfall, snow, ice or other less accommodating weather conditions in a given period, we could experience reduced productivity, which could negatively impact our revenues and gross margins. risk management and insurance we are insured for employer liability, general liability, auto liability and workers compensation claims. on august 1, 2013, we renewed our employer liability, general liability, auto liability and workers compensation policies for the 2013 - 2014 policy year. as a result of the renewal, the deductibles for general liability and auto liability increased from $5.0 million to $10.0 million per occurrence, while the deductible for workers compensation remained at $5.0 million per occurrence and the deductible for employer liability remained at $1.0 million per occurrence. additionally, in connection with this renewal, the amount of letters of credit required by us to secure our obligations under our casualty insurance programs has increased. between august 1, 2009 and july 31, 2013, all policy deductible levels were $5.0 million per occurrence, other than employer liability, which was subject to a deductible of $1.0 million. we also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $375,000 per claimant per year. losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimate of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. these insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the number of incidents not reported. the accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals are adequate. as of december 31, 2013 and 2012, the gross amount accrued for insurance claims totaled $161.8 million and $160.8 million, with $122.6 million and $120.2 million considered to be long term and included in other non-current liabilities. related insurance recoveries/receivables as of december 31, 2013 and 2012 were $9.1 million and $22.2 million, of which $0.7 million and $2.3 million are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $8.4 million and $19.9 million are included in other assets, net. we renew our insurance policies on an annual basis, and therefore deductibles and levels of insurance coverage may change in future periods. in addition, insurers may cancel our coverage or determine to exclude certain items from coverage, or we may elect not to obtain certain types or incremental levels of insurance if we believe that the cost to obtain such coverage exceeds the additional benefits obtained. in any such event, our overall risk exposure would increase, which could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. seasonality and cyclicality our revenues and results of operations can be subject to seasonal and other variations. these variations are influenced by weather, customer spending patterns, bidding seasons, project timing and schedules, and holidays. typically, our revenues are lowest in the first quarter of the year because cold, snowy or wet conditions can cause delays in projects. in addition, many of our customers develop their capital budgets for the coming year during the first quarter and do not begin infrastructure projects in a meaningful way until their capital budgets are finalized. second quarter revenues are typically higher than those in the first quarter, as some projects begin, but continued cold and wet weather can often impact second quarter productivity. third quarter revenues are typically the highest of the year, as a greater number of projects are underway and weather is more accommodating. generally, revenues during the fourth quarter of the year are lower than the third quarter but higher than the second quarter. many projects are completed in the fourth quarter, and revenues are often impacted positively by customers seeking to spend their capital budgets before the end of the year; however, the 12 table of contents holiday season and inclement weather can sometimes cause delays, reducing revenues and increasing costs. any quarter may be positively or negatively affected by atypical weather patterns in a given part of the world, such as severe weather, excessive rainfall or warmer winter weather, making it difficult to predict these variations and their effect on particular projects quarter to quarter. the timing of project awards and unanticipated changes in project schedules as a result of delays or accelerations can also create variations in the level of operating activity from quarter to quarter. these seasonal impacts are typical for our u.s. operations, but as our foreign operations continue to grow, we may see a lessening of this pattern impacting our quarterly revenues. for example, revenues in canada are often higher in the first quarter as projects are accelerated so that work can be completed prior to the break up , as productivity is adversely affected by wet ground conditions during the warmer spring and summer months. also, although revenues from australia and other international operations have not been significant to our overall revenues to date, their seasonal patterns may differ from those in north america and may impact our seasonality more in the future. additionally, our industry can be highly cyclical. as a result, our volume of business may be adversely affected by declines or delays in new projects in various geographic regions, including the united states, canada and australia. project schedules, particularly in connection with larger, longer-term projects, can also create fluctuations in the services provided, which may adversely affect us in a given period. the financial condition of our customers and their access to capital, variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular period, regional, national and global economic and market conditions, timing of acquisitions, the timing and magnitude of acquisition and integration costs associated with acquisitions, dispositions, fluctuations in our equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates and interest rate fluctuations are examples of items that may also materially affect quarterly results. accordingly, our operating results in any particular period may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other period. you should read outlook and understanding margins included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for additional discussion of trends and challenges that may affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. website access and other information our website address is www.quantaservices.com. interested parties may obtain free electronic copies of our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to these reports through our website under the heading investors &amp; media/sec filings or through the website of the securities and exchange commission (the sec) at www.sec.gov. these reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the sec. in addition, our corporate governance guidelines, code of ethics and business conduct and the charters of each of our audit committee, compensation committee, governance and nominating committee and investment committee are posted on our website under the heading investors &amp; media/corporate governance. we intend to disclose on our website any amendments or waivers to our code of ethics and business conduct that are required to be disclosed pursuant to item 5.05 of form 8-k. free copies of these items may be obtained from our website. we will make available to any stockholder, without charge, copies of our annual report on form 10-k as filed with the sec. for copies of this or any other quanta publication, stockholders may submit a request in writing to quanta services, inc., attn: corporate secretary, 2800 post oak blvd., suite 2600, houston, tx 77056, or by phone at 713-629-7600. this annual report on form 10-k and our website contain information provided by other sources that we believe are reliable. we cannot provide assurance that the information obtained from other sources is accurate or complete. no information on our website is incorporated by reference herein. item 1a. risk factors our business is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described below. the matters described below are not the only risks and uncertainties facing our 13 table of contents company. additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below also may impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively affected and we may not be able to achieve our goals or expectations. this annual report on form 10-k also includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended as forward-looking statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and should be read in conjunction with the section entitled uncertainty of forward-looking statements and information included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. our business can be highly cyclical and subject to seasonal and other variations that can result in significant differences in operating results from quarter to quarter. for example, we typically experience lower gross and operating margins during winter months due to lower demand for our services and more difficult operating conditions. additionally, our quarterly results may be materially and/or adversely affected by: permitting, regulatory or customer-caused delays on projects; adverse weather conditions; variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular quarter; unfavorable regional, national or global economic and market conditions; a reduction in the demand for our services; the budgetary spending patterns of customers and federal, state and local governments; disruptions in our customers strategic plans which could occur as a result of emerging technologies; increases in construction and design costs; the timing and volume of work we perform; the magnitude of work performed under change orders and the timing of their recognition; the ability to successfully negotiate and obtain reimbursement for pending change orders; liabilities associated with pension plans in which our employees participate or withdrawals therefrom; changes in accounting pronouncements that require us to account for items differently than historical pronouncements have; losses experienced in our operations not otherwise covered by insurance; a change in the mix of our customers, contracts and business; payment risk associated with the financial condition of our customers; the termination or expiration of existing agreements; pricing pressures resulting from competition; changes in bonding and lien requirements applicable to existing and new agreements; implementation of various information systems, which could temporarily disrupt day-to-day operations; the recognition of tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions; costs we incur to support growth internally or through acquisitions or otherwise; the timing and integration of acquisitions and the magnitude of the related acquisition and integration costs; and the timing and significance of potential impairments of long-lived assets, equity or other investments, goodwill or other intangible assets. 14 table of contents accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other quarter or for the entire year. negative economic and market conditions may adversely impact our customers future spending as well as payment for our services and, as a result, our operations and growth. the economy is still recovering from the recession in 2008 and 2009, and there is continuing uncertainty in the marketplace. stagnant or declining economic conditions have adversely impacted the demand for our services in the past and resulted in the delay, reduction or cancellation of certain projects and may adversely affect us in the future. additionally, many of our customers finance their projects through the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. a reduction in cash flow or the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may result in a reduction in our customers spending for our services and may also impact the ability of our customers to pay amounts owed to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our ability to grow at historical levels. regulatory and environmental requirements and economic conditions affecting any of the industries we serve may lead to less demand for our services. because the vast majority of our revenue is derived from a few industries, regulatory and environmental requirements or a downturn in economic conditions affecting any of those industries would adversely affect our results of operations. customers in the industries we serve face heightened regulatory and environmental requirements and stringent permitting processes as they implement plans for their projects, which can result in delays, reductions and cancellations of some of their projects. additionally, unfavorable economic conditions in any industry we serve could result in the delay, reduction or cancellation of projects by our customers, as well as cause our customers to outsource less work. these regulatory and economic factors have resulted in decreased demand for our services in the past, and they may continue to do so in the future, potentially impacting our operations and our ability to grow at historical levels. a number of other factors, including financing conditions and potential bankruptcies in the industries we serve or a prolonged economic downturn or recession, could adversely affect our customers and their ability or willingness to fund capital expenditures in the future or pay for past services. consolidation, competition, capital constraints or negative economic conditions in the electric power and oil and gas industries may also result in reduced spending by, or the loss of, one or more of our customers. project performance issues, including those caused by third parties, or certain contractual obligations may result in additional costs to us, reductions or delays in revenues or the payment of liquidated damages. many projects involve challenging engineering, procurement and construction phases that may occur over extended time periods, sometimes over several years. we may encounter difficulties as a result of delays in designs, engineering information or materials provided by the customer or a third party, delays or difficulties in equipment and material delivery, schedule changes, delays from our customers failure to timely obtain permits or rights-of-way or meet other regulatory requirements, weather-related delays and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, that can impact our ability to complete the project in accordance with the original delivery schedule. a failure by us to properly manage and invest in our equipment fleet could also negatively impact project performance and our results of operations. in addition, we occasionally contract with third-party subcontractors to assist us with the completion of contracts. any delay or failure by suppliers or by subcontractors in the completion of their portion of the project may result in delays in the overall progress of the project or may cause us to incur additional costs, or both. we also may encounter project delays due to local opposition, which may include injunctive actions as well as public protests, to the siting of electric power, natural gas or oil transmission lines, solar or wind projects, or other facilities. delays and additional costs may be substantial and, in some cases, we may be required to compensate the customer for such delays. we may not be able to recover all of such costs. in certain circumstances, we guarantee project completion by a scheduled acceptance date or achievement of certain acceptance and performance testing levels. failure to meet any of our schedules or performance requirements could also result in additional costs or penalties, including liquidated 15 table of contents damages, and such amounts could exceed expected project profit. in extreme cases, the above-mentioned factors could cause project cancellations, and we may not be able to replace such projects with similar projects or at all. such delays or cancellations may impact our reputation or relationships with customers, adversely affecting our ability to secure new contracts. our customers may change or delay various elements of a project after its commencement, or the design, engineering information, equipment or materials that are to be provided by the customer or other parties may be deficient or delivered later than required by the project schedule, resulting in additional direct or indirect costs. under these circumstances, we generally negotiate with the customer with respect to the amount of additional time required and the compensation to be paid to us. we are subject to the risk that we may be unable to obtain, through negotiation, arbitration, litigation or otherwise, adequate amounts to compensate us for the additional work or expenses incurred by us due to customer-requested change orders or failure by the customer to timely deliver items, such as engineering drawings or materials, required to be provided by the customer. litigation or arbitration of project change orders or claims for compensation may be lengthy and costly, and it is often difficult to predict when and for how much the claims will be resolved. a failure to obtain adequate compensation for these matters could require us to record a reduction to amounts of revenue and gross profit recognized in prior periods under the percentage-of-completion accounting method. any such adjustments could be substantial. we may also be required to invest significant working capital to fund cost overruns while the resolution of claims is pending, which could adversely affect liquidity and financial results in any given period. our business is labor intensive, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees. our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability will be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy. for instance, we may experience shortages of qualified journeyman linemen, who are integral to the provision of transmission and distribution services under our electric power infrastructure services segment. in addition, in our oil and gas infrastructure services segment, there is limited availability of experienced supervisors and foremen that can oversee large mainline pipe projects. a shortage in the supply of these skilled personnel creates competitive hiring markets and may result in increased labor expenses. labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues or profitability. our use of fixed price contracts could adversely affect our business and results of operations. we currently generate a portion of our revenues under fixed price contracts. we also expect to generate a greater portion of our revenues under this type of contract in the future as larger projects, such as electric power and pipeline transmission build-outs and utility-scale solar facilities, become a more significant aspect of our business. we assume risks related to revenue and cost on fixed-priced contracts. actual revenues and project costs can vary, sometimes substantially, from our original projections due to changes in a variety of factors including: unforeseen circumstances not included in our cost estimates or covered by our contract for which we cannot obtain adequate compensation; changes in the cost of equipment, commodities, materials or labor; unanticipated costs or claims due to customer-caused delays, errors in specifications or designs, or contract termination and our ability to obtain reimbursement for such costs; weather conditions; failure to perform by our project owners, suppliers or subcontractors; difficulties in obtaining required permits or approvals; changes in laws and regulations; and general economic conditions. 16 table of contents these variations, along with other risks inherent in performing fixed price contracts may cause actual revenue and gross profits for a project to differ from those we originally estimated and could result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. depending upon the size of a particular project, variations from the estimated contract costs could have a significant impact on our operating results for any fiscal period. our use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits. as discussed in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data , a significant portion of our revenues are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, utilizing the cost-to-cost method. this method is used because management considers expended costs to be the best available measure of progress on these contracts. this accounting method is generally accepted for fixed price contracts. the percentage-of-completion accounting practice we use results in our recognizing contract revenues and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. the earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability. contract losses are recognized in full when determined to be probable and reasonably estimable, and contract profit estimates are adjusted based on ongoing reviews of contract profitability. further, a substantial portion of our contracts contain various cost and performance incentives. penalties are recorded when known or finalized, which generally occurs during the latter stages of the contract. in addition, we record cost recovery claims when we believe recovery is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. actual collection of claims could differ from estimated amounts and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings. in certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be significant. our operating results can be negatively affected by weather conditions. we perform substantially all of our services in the outdoors. as a result, adverse weather conditions, such as rainfall or snow, may affect our productivity in performing our services or may temporarily prevent us from performing services. the effect of weather delays on projects that are under fixed price arrangements may be greater if we are unable to adjust the project schedule for such delays. a reduction in our productivity in any given period or our inability to meet guaranteed schedules may adversely affect the profitability of our projects, and as a result, our results of operations. we may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth. our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to: expand the range of services we offer to customers to address their evolving network needs; attract new customers; increase the number of projects performed for existing customers; hire and retain qualified employees; expand geographically, including internationally; and address the challenges presented by stringent regulatory, environmental and permitting requirements and difficult economic or market conditions that may affect us or our customers. in addition, our customers may cancel, delay or reduce the number or size of projects available to us for a variety of reasons, including capital constraints or inability to meet regulatory requirements. many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies for achieving internal growth will be successful. 17 table of contents our business is highly competitive. the specialty contracting business is served by numerous small, owner-operated private companies, some public companies and several large regional companies. in addition, relatively few barriers prevent entry into some areas of our business. as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become one of our competitors. a substantial portion of our revenues is directly or indirectly dependent on winning new contracts. the timing of when project awards will be made is unpredictable and often involves complex and lengthy negotiations and bidding processes. these processes can be impacted by a wide variety of factors, including price, governmental approvals, financing contingencies, commodity prices, environmental conditions and overall market and economic conditions. we are currently experiencing the impacts of competitive pricing in certain of the markets we serve, such as the electric power market with respect to smaller scale transmission projects and distribution services. in addition, our bids may not be successful because of a client perception of our ability to perform the work or a client perception of technology advantages held by our competitors as well as other factors. certain of our competitors may have lower overhead cost structures. therefore, they may be able to provide their services at lower rates than we are able to provide. in addition, some of our competitors have significant resources, including financial, technical and marketing resources. we cannot be certain that our competitors do not have or will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services. similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position within the specialty contracting business or maintain our customer base at current levels. we also face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers. electric power and oil and gas service providers usually employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services we do, and we cannot be certain that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource services in the future. changes in government spending and legislative actions and initiatives relating to renewable energy and electric power may adversely affect demand for our services. demand for our services may not result from renewable energy initiatives. while many states currently have mandates in place that require specified percentages of power to be generated from renewable sources, states could reduce those mandates or make them optional, which could reduce, delay or eliminate renewable energy development in the affected states. additionally, renewable energy is generally more expensive to produce and may require additional power generation sources as backup. the locations of renewable energy projects are often remote and are not viable unless new or expanded transmission infrastructure to transport the power to demand centers is economically feasible. furthermore, funding for renewable energy initiatives may not be available, which has been further constrained as a result of tight credit markets. these factors have resulted in fewer renewable energy projects than anticipated and a delay in the construction of these projects and the related infrastructure, which has adversely affected the demand for our services. these factors could continue to result in delays or reductions in projects, which could further negatively impact our business. the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 (arra) provides for various stimulus programs, such as grants, loan guarantees and tax incentives, relating to renewable energy, energy efficiency and electric power infrastructure. some of these programs have expired, which may affect the economic feasibility of future projects. additionally, while a significant amount of stimulus funds have been awarded, we cannot predict the timing and scope of any investments to be made under stimulus funding or whether stimulus funding will result in increased demand for our services. investments for renewable energy, electric power infrastructure and telecommunications fiber deployment under arra programs may not occur, may be less than anticipated or may be delayed, any of which would negatively impact demand for our services. other current and potential legislative or regulatory initiatives may not result in increased demand for our services. examples include legislation or regulations to require utilities to meet reliability standards, to ease siting and right-of-way issues for the construction of transmission lines, and to encourage installation of new electric power transmission and renewable energy generation facilities. it is not certain whether existing legislation will create sufficient incentives for new projects, when or if proposed legislative initiatives will be enacted or whether any potentially beneficial provisions will be included in the final legislation. 18 table of contents there are also a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to address greenhouse gas emissions, which are in various phases of discussion or implementation. the outcome of federal and state actions to address global climate change could negatively affect the operations of our customers through costs of compliance or restraints on projects, which could reduce their demand for our services. our business is subject to operational hazards, and we are self-insured against certain potential liabilities. our business is subject to significant operational hazards due to the nature of services provided by our workforce and the conditions in which they operate. these hazards include those involving electricity, fires, natural gas explosions, mechanical failures and weather-related incidents. our offshore operations are further subject to heightened risks, including blowouts, collisions, capsizings, vessels sinking and damage from severe weather conditions. these hazards could cause personal injury, severe damage to property, equipment and the environment and could lead to suspension of operations and legal liabilities. if we are not fully insured or indemnified against such risks or a counterparty fails to meet its indemnification obligations to us, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. further, our safety record may impact our ability to bid on certain work. on august 1, 2013, we renewed our employer liability, general liability, auto liability and workers compensation policies for the 2013 2014 policy year. as a result of the renewal, the deductibles for general liability and auto liability increased from $5.0 million to $10.0 million per occurrence, while the deductible for workers compensation remained at $5.0 million per occurrence and the deductible for employer liability remained at $1.0 million per occurrence. additionally, in connection with this renewal, the amount of letters of credit required by us to secure our obligations under our casualty insurance programs has increased. we are primarily self-insured for all claims that do not exceed the amount of the applicable deductible. we also have employee healthcare benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $375,000 per claimant per year. our insurance policies include various coverage requirements, including the requirement to give appropriate notice. if we fail to comply with these requirements, our coverage could be denied. losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. these insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the number of incidents not reported. the accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals are adequate. if we were to experience insurance claims or costs significantly above our estimates, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected in a given period. during the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to lawsuits or indemnity claims, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. we have in the past been, and may in the future be, named as a defendant in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings during the ordinary course of our business. these actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract, property damage, environmental liabilities, punitive damages, and civil penalties or other losses or injunctive or declaratory relief. in addition, we generally indemnify our customers for claims related to the services we provide and actions we take under our contracts with them, and, in some instances, we may be allocated risk through our contract terms for actions by our customers or other third parties. because our services in certain instances may be integral to the operation and performance of our customers infrastructure, we have been and may become subject to lawsuits or claims for any failure of the systems that we work on, even if our services are not the cause of such failures, and we could be subject to civil and criminal liabilities to the extent that our services contributed to any property damage, personal injury or system failure. insurance coverage may not be available or may be insufficient for these lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings. the outcome of any of 19 table of contents these lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings could result in significant costs and diversion of management attention to the business. payments of significant amounts, even if reserved, could adversely affect our reputation, liquidity and results of operations. for details on our existing litigation and claims, refer to note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. unavailability or cancellation of third party insurance coverage would increase our overall risk exposure as well as disrupt our operations. we maintain insurance coverage from third party insurers as part of our overall risk management strategy and because some of our contracts require us to maintain specific insurance coverage limits. there can be no assurance that any of our existing insurance coverage will be renewed upon the expiration of the coverage period or that future coverage will be affordable at the required limits. in addition, our third party insurers could fail, suddenly cancel our coverage or otherwise be unable to provide us with adequate insurance coverage. if any of these events occur, our overall risk exposure would increase and our operations could be disrupted. for example, we have significant operations in california and other states which have an increased risk of wildfires. should our insurers determine to exclude coverage for wildfires in the future, we could be exposed to significant liabilities and potentially a disruption of our california operations. if our risk exposure increases as a result of adverse changes in our insurance coverage, we could be subject to increased claims and liabilities that could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. many of our contracts may be canceled on short notice or may not be renewed upon completion or expiration, and we may be unsuccessful in replacing our contracts in such events, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we could experience a decrease in our revenue, net income and liquidity if any of the following occur: our customers cancel a significant number of contracts or contracts having significant value; we fail to renew a significant number of our existing contracts; we complete a significant number of non-recurring projects and cannot replace them with similar projects; or we fail to reduce operating and overhead expenses consistent with any decrease in our revenue. many of our customers may cancel our contracts on short notice, typically 30 to 90 days, even if we are not in default under the contract. certain of our customers assign work to us on a project-by-project basis under master service agreements. under these agreements, our customers often have no obligation to assign a specific amount of work to us. our operations could decline significantly if the anticipated volume of work is not assigned to us, which will be more likely if customer spending decreases, for example, due to the slow recovery of the economy. many of our contracts, including our master service agreements, are opened to public bid at the expiration of their terms. there can be no assurance that we will be the successful bidder on our existing contracts that come up for re-bid. the nature of our business exposes us to warranty claims, which may reduce our profitability. under our contracts with customers, we typically provide a warranty for the services we provide, guaranteeing the work performed against defects in workmanship and material. the majority of our contracts have a warranty period of 12 months. as much of the work we perform is inspected by our customers for any defects in construction prior to acceptance of the project, the warranty claims that we have historically received have been minimal. additionally, materials used in construction are often provided by the customer or are warranted against defects from the supplier. however, certain projects, such as utility-scale solar facilities, may have longer warranty periods and include facility performance warranties that may be broader than the warranties we generally provide. in these circumstances, if warranty claims occurred, it could require us to re-perform the services or to repair or replace the warranted item, at a cost to us, and could also result in other damages if we are 20 table of contents not able to adequately satisfy our warranty obligations. in addition, we may be required under contractual arrangements with our customers to warrant any defects or failures in materials we provide that we purchase from third parties. while we generally require the materials suppliers to provide us warranties that are consistent with those we provide to the customers, if any of these suppliers default on their warranty obligations to us, we may incur costs to repair or replace the defective materials for which we are not reimbursed. costs incurred as a result of warranty claims could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. the loss of one or a few customers could have a material adverse effect on us. a few customers have in the past and may in the future account for a significant portion of our revenue in any one year or over a period of several consecutive years. although we have long-standing relationships with many of our significant customers, our customers may unilaterally reduce or discontinue their contracts with us at any time. our loss of business from a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our profitability and financial condition may be adversely affected by risks associated with the oil and gas industry, such as price fluctuations and supply and demand for natural gas. certain of our services, in particular those under our oil and gas infrastructure services segment, are exposed to risks associated with the oil and gas industry. these risks, which are not subject to our control, include the volatility of natural gas and oil prices, the lack of demand for power generation from natural gas and a slowdown in the discovery or development of natural gas and/or oil reserves. specifically, lower natural gas and oil prices generally result in decreased spending by our customers in our oil and gas infrastructure services segment. the significant increase in the north american supply of natural gas due to ongoing development of unconventional shale formations has resulted in low natural gas prices for the past several years. while higher natural gas and oil prices generally result in increased infrastructure spending by these customers, sustained high energy prices could be an impediment to economic growth and could result in reduced infrastructure spending by such customers. higher prices could also decrease spending on natural gas fired electricity generation facilities and related infrastructure, an important component of our electric power infrastructure services business. additionally, higher prices will likely reduce demand for power generation from natural gas, which could result in decreased demand for the expansion of north america natural gas pipeline infrastructure, and consequently result in less capital spending by these customers and less demand for our services. further, if the discovery or development of natural gas and/or oil reserves slowed or stopped, customers would likely reduce capital spending on mainline pipe, gas gathering and compressor systems and other related infrastructure, resulting in less demand for our services. if the profitability of our business under the oil and gas infrastructure services segment were to decline, our overall profitability, results of operations and cash flows could also be adversely affected. backlog may not be realized or may not result in profits. backlog is not a term recognized under united states generally accepted accounting principles; however, it is a common measurement used in our industry. our methodology for determining backlog may not be comparable to the methodologies used by other companies. furthermore, backlog is difficult to determine with certainty. customers often have no obligation under our contracts to assign or release work to us, and many contracts may be terminated on short notice. reductions in backlog due to cancellation of one or more contracts or projects by a customer or for other reasons could significantly reduce the revenue and profit we actually receive from contracts included in backlog. in the event of a project cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but would not have a contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. the backlog we obtain in connection with any companies we acquire may not be as large as we believed or may not result in the revenue or profits we expected. in addition, projects that are delayed may remain in backlog for extended periods of time. all of these uncertainties are heightened by negative economic conditions and their impact on our 21 table of contents customers spending, as well as the effects of regulatory requirements and weather conditions. consequently, we cannot assure that our estimates of backlog are accurate or that we will be able to realize our estimated backlog. our financial results are based upon estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. in preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states, several estimates and assumptions are used by management in determining the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses recognized during the periods presented and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities known to exist as of the date of the financial statements. these estimates and assumptions must be made because certain information that is used in the preparation of our financial statements is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available or is not capable of being readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. in some cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine, and we must exercise significant judgment. estimates are used primarily in our assessment of the allowance for doubtful accounts, valuation of inventory, useful lives of assets, fair value assumptions in analyzing goodwill, other intangibles and long-lived asset impairments, equity and other investments, loan receivables, purchase price allocations, liabilities for self-insured and other claims, multi-employer pension plan withdrawal liabilities, revenue recognition for construction contracts inclusive of contractual change orders and claims, revenue recognition for fiber optic licensing contracts, share-based compensation, operating results of reportable segments, provision (benefit) for income taxes and the calculation of uncertain tax positions. actual results for all estimates could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our inability to successfully execute our acquisition strategy may have an adverse impact on our growth strategy. our business strategy includes expanding our presence in the industries we serve through strategic acquisitions of companies that complement or enhance our business. the number of acquisition targets that meet our criteria may be limited, and we may also face competition for acquisition opportunities. some of our competitors may offer more favorable terms than us or have greater financial resources than we do. this competition may further limit our acquisition opportunities and our ability to grow through acquisitions or could raise the prices of acquisitions and make them less accretive or possibly not accretive to us. acquisitions that we may pursue may also involve significant cash expenditures, the incurrence or assumption of debt or burdensome regulatory requirements. any acquisition may ultimately have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. any of these factors could inhibit our ability to consummate future acquisitions, which could negatively affect our growth strategies. we may be unsuccessful at integrating businesses that either we have acquired or that we may acquire in the future, which may reduce the anticipated benefit from acquired businesses. as a part of our business strategy, we have acquired, and may seek to acquire in the future, companies that complement or enhance our business. the success of this strategy will depend on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquired businesses, such as the expansion of our existing operations, elimination of redundant costs and capitalizing on cross-selling opportunities. to realize these benefits, however, we must successfully integrate the operations of the acquired businesses with our existing operations. we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully integrate acquired companies with our existing operations without substantial costs, delays, disruptions or other operational or financial problems. additionally, if we do not implement proper overall business controls, our decentralized operating strategy could result in inconsistent operating and financial practices at the companies we acquire. issues related to the integration process may result in adverse impact to our revenues, earnings and cash flows. integrating our acquired companies involves a number of special risks 22 table of contents that could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including: failure of acquired companies to achieve the results we expect; diversion of our management attention from operational and other matters; difficulties integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies; inability to retain key personnel of acquired companies; risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities; loss of business due to customer overlap or change from local or private ownership; risks arising from the prior operations of acquired companies, such as performance, operational, safety or workforce issues, or customer dissatisfaction; and potential disruptions of our business. our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of impairments of goodwill, other intangible assets or our investments. when we acquire a business, we record an asset called goodwill equal to the excess amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business we acquire. goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives cannot be amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairment, while intangible assets that have finite useful lives are amortized over their useful lives. the accounting literature provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for impairment. refer to item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies for a detailed discussion. management is required to make certain estimates and assumptions when allocating goodwill to reporting units and determining the fair value of a reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. fair value is determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches. absent any impairment indicators, we perform our impairment tests annually during the fourth quarter. if there is a decrease in market capitalization below book value in the future, this may be considered an impairment indicator. in addition, we enter into various types of investment arrangements in the normal course of business, each having unique terms and conditions. these investments may include equity interests we hold in business entities, including general or limited partnerships, contractual joint ventures or other forms of equity participation. these investments may also include our participation in different finance structures such as the extension of loans to project specific entities, the acquisition of convertible notes issued by project specific entities or other strategic financing arrangements. our equity method investments are carried at original cost and are included in other assets, net in our consolidated balance sheet and are adjusted for our proportionate share of the investees income, losses and distributions. equity investments are reviewed for impairment by assessing whether any decline in the fair value of the investment below the carrying value is other than temporary. in making this determination, factors such as the ability to recover the carrying amount of the investment and the inability of the investee to sustain future earnings capacity are evaluated in determining whether an impairment has occurred and should be recognized. any future impairments, including impairments of goodwill, intangible assets or investments, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the period in which the impairment is recognized. 23 table of contents new federal or state telecommunications regulations, or changes in, or interpretations of, existing regulations, could adversely affect our fiber optic licensing and other segment. many of our fiber optic licensing and other segment customers benefit from the universal service e-rate program, which was established by congress in the 1996 telecommunications act and is administered by the universal service administrative company (usac) under the oversight of the federal communications commission (fcc). under the e-rate program, schools, libraries and certain healthcare facilities may receive subsidies for certain approved telecommunications services, internet access and internal connections. from time to time, bills have been introduced in congress that would eliminate or curtail the e-rate program. passage of such actions by the fcc or usac to further limit e-rate subsidies could decrease the demand by certain customers for the services offered by our fiber optic licensing and other segment. the licensing services we provide through our fiber optic licensing and other segment are subject to regulation by the fcc, to the extent that they are interstate telecommunications services, and by state regulatory agencies, when wholly within a particular state. to remain eligible to provide services under the e-rate program, we must maintain telecommunications authorizations in every state where we operate, and we must obtain such authorizations in any new state where we plan to operate. changes in federal or state regulations could reduce the profitability of our fiber optic licensing and other segment, and delays in obtaining new authorizations could inhibit our ability to grow our fiber optic licensing and other segment in new geographic areas. we could be subject to fines if the fcc or a state regulatory agency were to determine that any of our activities or positions are not in compliance with certain regulations. if the profitability of our fiber optic licensing and other segment were to decline, or if the business of this segment were to become subject to fines, our overall results of operations and cash flows could also be adversely affected. our fiber optic services are capital intensive, require substantial investments, may expose us to industry specific risks and may have returns on investments that are less than expected. our fiber optic licensing business requires substantial amounts of capital investment to build out new fiber networks. in 2014, our proposed capital expenditures for our fiber optic licensing business are approximately $50 million to $60 million, $38.8 million of which is related to committed licensing arrangements as of december 31, 2013. although we generally do not commit capital to new networks until we have a committed license arrangement in place with at least one customer, we may not be able to recoup our initial investment in the network, and we may not realize a return on the capital investment for an extended period of time. furthermore, the amount of capital that we invest in our fiber optic network may exceed planned expenditures as a result of various factors, including difficulty in obtaining permits or rights of way or unexpected increases in costs due to labor, materials or project productivity, which would result in a decrease in the returns on our capital investments if licensing fees for the network were committed and could not be renegotiated. new or developing technologies or significant competition in any of our markets could also negatively impact our fiber optic licensing business. any of these events could adversely affect our results of operations or result in an impairment of our fiber optic network. our expansion into the lit services market exposes us to additional risks, as we will be providing access to the fiber network that we own, as well as providing networking equipment and assuming responsibility for network management and service quality. these risks include, but are not limited to, those related to our ability to secure customers for our network in a competitive environment, and the ability to obtain additional capacity in the event of increased demand; network failures and service interruptions, including those outside of our control when we use dark fiber networks or circuits that we do not own or operate, which could expose us to customer liability or require expensive modifications; our ability to obtain agreements with building owners and managers to provide us with access to serve customers in multi-tenant facilities; our ability to obtain or construct additional building laterals to connect new buildings to our network; compliance with laws and regulations applicable to internet service providers; internet connectivity at both public and private interconnection points with network providers; relationships and agreements with carrier neutral data center operators and incumbent local exchange carriers; and security breaches and unauthorized access to our systems. 24 table of contents we extend credit to customers for purchases of our services and may enter into longer-term deferred payment arrangements or provide other financing or investment arrangements with certain of our customers, which subjects us to potential credit or investment risk that could, if realized, adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we grant credit, generally without collateral, to our customers, which include electric power utilities, oil and gas companies, governmental entities, general contractors, and builders, owners and managers of renewable energy facilities and commercial and industrial properties located primarily in the united states, canada and australia. we may also agree to allow our customers to defer payment on projects until certain milestones have been met or until the projects are substantially completed, and customers typically withhold some portion of amounts due to us as retainage. in addition, we may provide other forms of financing to our customers or make investments in our customers projects, typically in situations where we also provide services in connection with the projects. our payment arrangements with our customers subject us to potential credit risk related to changes in business and economic factors affecting our customers, including material changes in our customers revenues or cash flows. these changes may also reduce the value of any financing or equity investment arrangements we have with our customers. many of our customers have been negatively impacted by uncertain economic conditions in recent years, and some may experience financial difficulties (including bankruptcies) that could impact our ability to collect amounts owed to us or impair the value of our investments in them. if we are unable to collect amounts owed to us, our cash flows would be reduced, and we could experience losses if the uncollectible amounts exceeded current allowances. we would also recognize losses with respect to any investments that are impaired as a result of our customers financial difficulties. losses experienced could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the risks of collectability and impairment losses may increase for projects where we provide services as well as make a financing or equity investment. the loss of key personnel could disrupt our business. we depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and on senior management of our operating units, including the businesses we acquire. although we typically enter into employment agreements with terms of one to three years with our executive officers and certain other key employees, we cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time or that key employees of our future acquisition targets will be willing to enter into such agreements. the loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business. we do not carry key-person life insurance on any of our employees. we may be required to contribute cash to meet our underfunded obligations in certain multi-employer pension plans. our collective bargaining agreements generally require us to participate with other companies in multi-employer pension plans. to the extent those plans are underfunded, the employee retirement income security act of 1974, as amended by the multi-employer pension plan amendments act of 1980, may subject us to substantial liabilities under those plans if we withdraw from them or they are terminated or experience a mass withdrawal. for example, in the fourth quarter of 2011, we recognized a $32.6 million liability when certain of our subsidiaries withdrew from the central states, southeast and southwest areas pension plan (the central states plan). the amount of this liability is estimated based on information received from the multi-employer plan in 2011, although the plan has asserted that additional amounts are due. the actual amount assessed by the plan for the withdrawal and the amount that we ultimately pay for the withdrawal liability may be materially different than the amount currently recorded. additionally, on october 9, 2013, we acquired a company that experienced a complete withdrawal from the central states plan prior to the date of our acquisition. central states issued a notice and demand to the acquired company for a withdrawal liability and the acquired company, and now quanta, has taken steps to challenge the amount of the assessment by the central states plan. 25 table of contents in addition, the pension protection act of 2006 added special funding and operational rules generally applicable to plan years beginning after 2007 for multi-employer plans that are classified as endangered, seriously endangered, or critical status. plans in these classifications must adopt measures to improve their funded status through a funding improvement or rehabilitation plan, which may require additional contributions from employers (which may take the form of a surcharge on benefit contributions) and/or modifications to retiree benefits. a number of multi-employer plans to which we contribute or may contribute in the future are in endangered, seriously endangered or critical status. the amount of additional funds we may be obligated to contribute to these plans in the future cannot be estimated, as such amounts will likely be based on future work that requires the specific use of union employees covered by these plans, and the amount of that future work and the number of employees that may be affected cannot reasonably be estimated. our performance of a significant amount of future services in areas that require us to utilize unionized employees covered by these affected plans, or a deterioration in the funding status of any of the plans to which our operating units contribute, could require significant additional contributions, which could detrimentally affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows if we are not able to adequately mitigate these costs. our unionized workforce and related obligations could adversely affect our operations. as of december 31, 2013, approximately 58% of our hourly employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. although the majority of the collective bargaining agreements prohibit strikes and work stoppages, certain of our unionized employees participated in a strike and work stoppage during january 2012, and we cannot be certain that strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the future. strikes or work stoppages can adversely impact our relationships with our customers and could cause us to lose business and decrease our revenue. our ability to complete future acquisitions could be adversely affected because of our union status for a variety of reasons. for instance, our union agreements may be incompatible with the union agreements of a business we want to acquire, and some businesses may not want to become affiliated with a union-based company. additionally, we may increase our exposure to withdrawal liabilities for underfunded multi-employer pension plans to which an acquired company contributes. approximately 42% of our hourly employees are not unionized. under the current u.s. presidential administration, certain administrative and regulatory actions have been taken and are being considered that could create more flexibility and opportunity for labor unions to organize non-union workers and could result in a greater percentage of our workforce being subject to collective bargaining agreements, heightening the risks described above. in addition, certain of our customers require or prefer a non-union workforce, and they may reduce the amount of work assigned to us if our non-union labor crews were to become unionized, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial or reputational impacts relating to occupational health and safety matters. our operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace. while we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources in our occupational health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operational risk and there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant liability exposure. although we have taken what we believe are appropriate precautions, we have suffered fatalities in the past and may suffer additional fatalities in the future. serious accidents, including fatalities, may subject us to substantial penalties, civil litigation or criminal prosecution. claims for damages to persons, including claims for bodily injury or loss of life, could result in substantial costs and liabilities, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. in addition, if our safety record were to substantially deteriorate over time or we were to suffer substantial penalties or criminal prosecution for violation of health and safety regulations, our customers could cancel our contracts and elect to procure future services from other providers. 26 table of contents risks associated with operating in international markets could restrict our ability to expand globally and harm our business and prospects. our international operations are presently conducted primarily in canada and australia, but we have performed work in various other foreign countries, and we expect that the number of countries in which we operate could expand significantly over the next few years. economic conditions, including those resulting from wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts or volatility in the global markets, may adversely affect our customers, their demand for our services and their ability to pay for our services. in addition, our international operations include business and transactions for which we are paid in local currency. payments to us in currencies other than the u.s. dollar may exceed our local currency needs, leading to the accumulation of excess local currency, which, in certain instances, may be subject to either temporary blocking, costly taxes or tariffs, or other difficulties converting to u.s. dollars. there are numerous risks inherent in conducting our business internationally, including, but not limited to, potential instability in international markets, changes in regulatory requirements applicable to international operations, currency fluctuations in foreign countries, political, economic and social conditions in foreign countries and complex u.s. and foreign laws and treaties, including tax laws. these risks could restrict our ability to provide services to international customers, operate our international business profitably, or fund our strategic objectives, and our overall business, liquidity and results of operations could be negatively impacted by our foreign activities. we could be adversely affected by our failure to comply with the laws applicable to our foreign activities, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and other similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions prohibit u.s.-based companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. we pursue opportunities in certain parts of the world that experience government corruption, and in certain circumstances, compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. our policies mandate compliance with all applicable anti-bribery laws. further, we require our partners, subcontractors, agents and others who work for us or on our behalf to comply with the fcpa and other anti-bribery laws. although we have policies and procedures designed to ensure that we, our employees, our agents and others who work with us in foreign countries comply with the fcpa and other anti-bribery laws, there is no assurance that such policies or procedures will protect us against liability under the fcpa or other laws for actions taken by our agents, employees and intermediaries. if we are found to be liable for fcpa violations (either due to our own acts or inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer from severe criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. in addition, detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged fcpa violations is expensive and could consume significant time and attention of our senior management. our participation in joint ventures exposes us to liability and/or harm to our reputation for failures of our partners. as part of our business, we have entered into joint venture arrangements and may enter into additional joint venture arrangements in the future. the purpose of these joint ventures is typically to combine skills and resources to allow for the performance of particular projects. success on these jointly performed projects depends in large part on whether our joint venture partners satisfy their contractual obligations. we and our joint venture partners are generally jointly and severally liable for all liabilities and obligations of our joint ventures. if a joint venture partner fails to perform or is financially unable to bear its portion of required capital contributions or other obligations, including liabilities stemming from claims or lawsuits, we could be required to make additional investments, provide additional services or pay more than our proportionate share of a liability to make up for our partner shortfall. further, if we are unable to adequately address our partner performance issues, the customer may terminate the project, which could result in legal liability to us, harm our reputation and reduce our profit on a project. 27 table of contents we are in the process of implementing an information technology (it) solution, which could temporarily disrupt day-to-day operations at certain operating units. we continue to implement a comprehensive it solution that we believe will allow for the interface between functions such as accounting and finance, human resources, operations, and fleet management. continued development and implementation of the it solution will require substantial financial and personnel resources. while the it solution is intended to improve and enhance our information systems, implementation of new information systems at each operating unit exposes us to the risks of start-up of the new system and integration of that system with our existing systems and processes, including possible disruption of our financial reporting. there is no guarantee that we will realize economic or other intended benefits from continued development and implementation of the it solution. additionally, the it solution may not be developed or implemented as timely or as accurately as planned. failure to properly implement the it solution could result in substantial disruptions to our business, including coordinating and processing our normal business activities, testing and recording of certain data necessary to provide oversight over our disclosure controls and procedures and effective internal controls over our financial reporting, and other unforeseen problems. failure to adequately protect critical data and technology systems could materially affect our operations. it solution failures, network disruptions and breaches of data security could disrupt our operations by causing delays or cancellation of customer orders, impeding processing of transactions and reporting financial results, resulting in the unintentional disclosure of customer or our information, or damage to our reputation. while management has taken steps to address these concerns by implementing network security and internal control measures, there can be no assurance that a system failure or data security breach (particularly in light of our ongoing implementation of the it solution) will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. our dependence on suppliers, subcontractors and equipment manufacturers could expose us to the risk of loss in our operations. on certain projects, we rely on suppliers to obtain the necessary materials and subcontractors to perform portions of our services. we also rely on equipment manufacturers to provide us with the equipment required to conduct our operations. although we are not dependent on any single supplier, subcontractor or equipment manufacturer, any substantial limitation on the availability of required suppliers, subcontractors or equipment manufacturers could negatively impact our operations. the risk of a lack of available suppliers, subcontractors or equipment manufacturers may be heightened as a result of market and economic conditions. to the extent we cannot engage subcontractors or acquire equipment or materials, we could experience losses in the performance of our operations. we may not have access in the future to sufficient funding to finance desired growth and operations. if we cannot secure future funds or financing on acceptable terms, we may be unable to support our growth strategy or future operations. we cannot readily predict the ability of certain customers to pay for past services, and unfavorable economic conditions, such as those experienced over recent years, may negatively impact the ability of our customers to pay amounts owed to us. we may also use cash for acquisitions, as well as for investments, both of which are elements of our growth strategy, but we cannot readily predict the timing, size and success of our acquisition or investment efforts. using cash for acquisitions and investments limits our financial flexibility and may increase our need to seek additional capital through future debt or equity financings. our existing credit facility contains significant restrictions on our operational and financial flexibility, including our ability to incur additional debt or conduct certain types of preferred equity financings, and if we seek more debt, we may have to agree to additional covenants that limit our operational and financial flexibility. if we seek additional debt or equity financings, we cannot be certain that additional debt or equity will be available to us on terms acceptable to us or at all. furthermore, our credit facility is based upon existing commitments from several banks. banks have become more restrictive in their lending practices following the difficulties in the credit markets, and some may be unable or unwilling to fund their commitments, which may limit our access to the 28 table of contents capital needed to fund our growth and operations. in addition, we rely on financing companies to fund the leasing of certain of our trucks and trailers, support vehicles and specialty construction equipment. credit market conditions may cause certain of these financing companies to restrict or withhold access to capital to fund the leasing of additional equipment. although we are not dependent on any single equipment lessor, a widespread lack of available capital to fund the leasing of equipment could negatively impact our future operations. additionally, the market price of our common stock may change significantly in response to various factors and events beyond our control, which will impact our ability to use equity to obtain funds. a variety of events may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly, including overall market conditions or volatility, a shortfall in our operating results from those anticipated, negative results or other unfavorable information relating to our market peers or the other risks described in this annual report on form 10-k. fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates may have a greater impact on our financial results as we expand into international markets. for the year ended december 31, 2013, we derived $1.31 billion, or 20.1%, of our consolidated revenues from foreign operations, the substantial majority of which was earned in canada and australia. we intend to expand the volume of services that we provide internationally. as a result, our reported financial condition and results of operations may be exposed to the effects that fluctuating exchange rates have on the process of translating the financial statements of our international operations, which are usually denominated in local currencies, into the u.s. dollar. our business growth could outpace the capability of our decentralized management infrastructure. we cannot be certain that our management infrastructure will be adequate to support our operations as they expand. for example, the ability to internally communicate, coordinate and execute business strategies, plans and tactics may be negatively impacted by our increasing size and complexity. a decentralized structure places significant control and decision-making powers in the hands of local management. this contributes to the risk that we may be slower or less able to identify or react to problems affecting key business matters than we would in a more centralized environment. the lack of timely access to information may impact the quality of decision making by management. our decentralized organization creates the possibility that our operating subsidiaries assume excessive risk without appropriate guidance from our centralized legal, accounting, tax, treasury and insurance functions as to the potential overall impact. future growth also could impose significant additional responsibilities on members of our senior management, including the need to recruit and integrate new senior level managers and executives. we cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain such additional managers and executives. to the extent that we are unable to manage our growth effectively, or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified management, we may not be able to expand our operations or execute our business plan. we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects if we are not able to obtain surety bonds. a portion of our business depends on our ability to provide surety bonds or other financial assurances. current or future market conditions, including losses incurred in the construction industry or as a result of large corporate bankruptcies, as well as changes in our sureties assessment of our operating and financial risk, could cause our surety providers to decline to issue or renew, or substantially reduce the amount of, bid and/or performance bonds for our work and could increase our bonding costs. these actions could be taken on short notice. if our surety providers were to limit or eliminate our access to bonding, our alternatives would include seeking bonding capacity from other sureties, finding more business that does not require bonds or posting other forms of collateral for project performance, such as letters of credit or cash. we may be unable to secure these alternatives in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all, which could affect our ability to bid for or work on future projects requiring financial assurances. we have also granted security interests in various of our assets to collateralize our obligations to our sureties. furthermore, under standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue or continue bonds on a project- 29 table of contents by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing or renewing any bonds. if we were to experience an interruption or reduction in the availability of bonding capacity as a result of these or any other reasons, we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects that would require bonding. our failure to comply with environmental laws could result in significant liabilities. our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including those dealing with the handling and disposal of waste products, pcbs, fuel storage and air quality. we perform work in many different types of underground environments. if the field location maps supplied to us are not accurate, or if objects are present in the soil that are not indicated on the field location maps, our underground work could strike objects in the soil, some of which may contain pollutants. these objects may also rupture, resulting in the discharge of pollutants. in such circumstances, we may be liable for fines and damages, and we may be unable to obtain reimbursement from the parties providing the incorrect information. we perform work in and around environmentally sensitive areas such as rivers, lakes and wetlands. in addition, we perform directional drilling operations below certain environmentally sensitive terrains and water bodies. due to the inconsistent nature of the terrain and water bodies, it is possible that such directional drilling may cause a surface fracture, resulting in the release of subsurface materials. these subsurface materials may contain contaminants in excess of amounts permitted by law, potentially exposing us to remediation costs and fines. we also own and lease several facilities at which we store our equipment. some of these facilities contain fuel storage tanks that are above or below ground. if these tanks were to leak, we could be responsible for the cost of remediation as well as potential fines. in addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or leaks, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur significant costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in certain instances, we have obtained indemnification or covenants from third parties (including predecessors or lessors) for such clean-up and other obligations and liabilities that we believe are adequate to cover such obligations and liabilities. however, such third-party indemnities or covenants may not cover all of our costs and the indemnitors may not pay amounts owed to us, and such unanticipated obligations or liabilities, or future obligations and liabilities, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. further, we cannot be certain that we will be able to identify or be indemnified for all potential environmental liabilities relating to any acquired business. there are also other legislative and regulatory proposals to address greenhouse gas emissions. these proposals, if enacted, could result in a variety of regulatory programs including potential new regulations, additional charges to fund energy efficiency activities, or other regulatory actions. any of these actions could result in increased costs associated with our operations and impact the prices we charge our customers. for example, if new regulations are adopted regulating greenhouse gas emissions from mobile sources such as cars and trucks, we could experience a significant increase in environmental compliance costs in light of our large rolling-stock fleet. in addition, if our operations are perceived to result in high greenhouse gas emissions, our reputation could suffer. we may not be successful in continuing to meet the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 has many requirements applicable to us regarding corporate governance and financial reporting, including the requirements for management to report on our internal controls over financial reporting and for our independent registered public accounting firm to express an opinion over the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. during 2013, we continued actions to ensure our ability to comply with these requirements. as of december 31, 2013, our internal control over financial reporting was effective; however, there can be no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in future years. failure to maintain effective internal controls or the identification of significant internal control deficiencies in acquisitions already made or made in the future could result in a 30 table of contents decrease in the market value of our common stock and our other publicly traded securities, the reduced ability to obtain financing, the loss of customers, penalties and additional expenditures to meet the requirements. if we are unable to enforce our intellectual property rights or if our intellectual property rights become obsolete, our competitive position could be adversely impacted. we utilize a variety of intellectual property rights in our services. we view our portfolio of proprietary energized services tools and techniques, as well as our other process and design technologies, as one of our competitive strengths, which we believe differentiates our service offerings. we may not be able to successfully preserve these intellectual property rights in the future, and these rights could be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries in which our services may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. we also license certain technologies from third parties, and there is a risk that our relationships with licensors may terminate or expire or may be interrupted or harmed. if we are unable to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights, or if intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings succeed against us, our ability to differentiate our service offerings could be reduced. in addition, if our intellectual property rights or work processes become obsolete, we may not be able to differentiate our service offerings, and some of our competitors may be able to offer more attractive services to our customers. as a result, our business and revenue could be materially and adversely affected. we may incur additional healthcare costs arising from federal healthcare reform legislation. in march 2010, the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (the aca) were signed into law in the u.s. the aca is intended to expand access to health insurance coverage to many uninsured individuals and expands coverage to those already insured. the changes and mandates on employers subject to the aca pay or play requirements could cause us to incur additional group health insurance costs, although we do not expect any material short-term impact on our financial results as a result of the aca. we continue to monitor developments under the aca and assess the extent to which it could result in long-term material cost increases for us. opportunities within the government arena could subject us to increased governmental regulation and costs. most government contracts are awarded through a regulated competitive bidding process. as we pursue increased opportunities in the government arena, management focus associated with the start-up and bidding process may be diverted away from other opportunities. involvement with government contracts could require a significant amount of costs to be incurred before any revenues are realized from these contracts. in addition, as a government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and other public sector regulations, any deemed violation of which could lead to fines or penalties or a loss of business. government agencies routinely audit and investigate government contractors. government agencies may review a contractor performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. if a government agency determines that costs were improperly allocated to specific contracts, such costs will not be reimbursed or a refund of previously reimbursed costs may be required. if a government agency alleges or proves improper activity, civil and criminal penalties could be imposed and serious reputational harm could result. many government contracts must be appropriated each year. if appropriations are not made in subsequent years, we would not realize all of the potential revenues from any awarded contracts. certain provisions of our corporate governing documents could make an acquisition of our company more difficult. the following provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as currently in effect, as well as delaware law, could discourage potential proposals to acquire us, delay or prevent a change in control of us or limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock: our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to issue blank check preferred stock and to adopt amendments to our bylaws; 31 table of contents our bylaws contain restrictions regarding the right of stockholders to nominate directors and to submit proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings; our certificate of incorporation and bylaws restrict the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to act by written consent; and we are subject to provisions of delaware law which prohibit us from engaging in any of a broad range of business transactions with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date such stockholder became classified as an interested stockholder. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 75 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary exposure to market risk relates to unfavorable changes in concentration of credit risk, interest rates and currency exchange rates. credit risk. we are subject to concentrations of credit risk related to our cash and cash equivalents and our accounts receivable, including amounts related to unbilled accounts receivable and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts. substantially all of our cash investments are managed by what we believe to be high credit quality financial institutions. in accordance with our investment policies, these institutions are authorized to invest this cash in a diversified portfolio of what we believe to be high-quality investments, which primarily include interest-bearing demand deposits and money market mutual funds with original maturities of three months or less. although we do not currently believe the principal amounts of these investments are subject to any material risk of loss, changes in economic conditions could impact the interest income we receive from these investments. in addition, as we grant credit under normal payment terms, generally without collateral, we are subject to potential credit risk related to our customers ability to pay for services provided. this risk may be heightened as a result of the depressed economic and financial market conditions that have existed in recent years. however, we believe the concentration of credit risk related to trade accounts receivable and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts is limited because of the diversity of our customers. we perform ongoing credit risk assessments of our customers and financial institutions and in some cases we obtain collateral or other security from our customers. interest rate and market risk. currently, we do not have any significant assets or obligations with exposure to significant interest rate and market risk. although we had credit facility borrowings outstanding at various times in 2013 and 2012 which exposed us to interest rate risk, there were no credit facility borrowings outstanding at december 31, 2013. currency risk. we conduct operations primarily in the u.s., canada and australia. future earnings are subject to change due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates when transactions are denominated in currencies other than our functional currencies. to minimize the need for foreign currency forward contracts to hedge this exposure, our objective is to manage foreign currency exposure by maintaining a minimal consolidated net asset or net liability position in a currency other than the functional currency. we may enter into foreign currency derivative contracts to manage some of our foreign currency exposures. these exposures may include revenues generated in foreign jurisdictions and anticipated purchase transactions, including foreign currency capital expenditures and lease commitments. there were no open foreign currency derivative contracts at december 31, 2013. 75 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors for additional information. 7 table of contents customers, strategic alliances and preferred provider relationships our customers include electric power and oil and gas companies, as well as commercial, industrial and governmental entities. we have a large and diverse customer base, including many of the leading companies in the industries we serve. our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 32% of our consolidated revenues during the year ended december 31, 2014. our largest customer accounted for approximately 6% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended december 31, 2014. although we have a centralized marketing and business development strategy, management at each of our operating units is responsible for developing and maintaining successful long-term relationships with customers. our operating unit management teams build upon existing customer relationships to secure additional projects and increase revenue from our current customer base. many of these customer relationships originated decades ago and are maintained through a partnering approach to account management that includes project evaluation and consulting, quality performance, performance measurement and direct customer contact. additionally, operating unit management focuses on pursuing growth opportunities with prospective new customers. we encourage operating unit management to cross-sell services of our other operating units to their customers and to coordinate with our other operating units to pursue projects, especially those that are larger and more complicated. our business development group supports the operating units activities by promoting and marketing our services for existing and prospective large national accounts, as well as projects that would require services from multiple operating units. we are a preferred vendor for many of our customers. as a preferred vendor, we have met minimum standards for a specific category of service, maintained a high level of performance and agreed to certain payment terms and negotiated rates. we strive to maintain preferred vendor status as we believe it provides us an advantage in the award of future work for the applicable customer. we believe that our strategic relationships with customers in the electric power and oil and gas industries will continue to result in future opportunities. many of these relationships take the form of strategic alliance or long-term maintenance agreements. strategic alliance agreements generally state an intention to work together over a period of time and/or on specific types of projects, and many provide us with preferential bidding procedures. strategic alliances and long-term maintenance agreements are typically agreements for an initial term of approximately two to four years and may include renewal options to extend the initial term. backlog backlog is not a term recognized under united states generally accepted accounting principles (us gaap); however, it is a common measurement used in our industry. our methodology for determining backlog may not be comparable to the methodologies used by other companies. our backlog represents the amount of consolidated revenue that we expect to realize from future work under construction contracts, long-term maintenance contracts, master service agreements (msas) and licensing agreements. these estimates include revenues from the remaining portion of firm orders not yet completed and on which work has not yet begun, as well as revenues from change orders, renewal options, and funded and unfunded portions of government contracts to the extent that they are reasonably expected to occur. for purposes of calculating backlog, we include 100% of estimated revenues attributable to consolidated joint ventures and variable interest entities (vies). the following table presents our total backlog by reportable segment as of december 31, 2014 and 2013, along with an estimate of the backlog amounts expected to be realized within 12 months of each balance sheet date (in thousands): backlog as of december 31, 2014 backlog as of december 31, 2013 12 month total 12 month total electric power infrastructure services $ 3,339,214 $ 6,628,019 $ 3,346,721 $ 5,964,061 oil and gas infrastructure services 1,824,610 2,520,635 1,515,612 2,218,503 fiber optic licensing and other 152,929 613,826 137,883 545,503 total $ 5,316,753 $ 9,762,480 $ 5,000,216 $ 8,728,067 8 table of contents revenue estimates included in our backlog can be subject to change as a result of project accelerations, cancellations or delays due to various factors, including but not limited to commercial issues, regulatory requirements and adverse weather. these factors can also cause revenue amounts to be realized in periods and at levels different than originally projected. generally, our customers are not contractually committed to specific volumes of services under our msas, and while we did not experience any material cancellations during the current periods, most of our contracts may be terminated, typically upon 30 to 90 days notice, even if we are not in default under the contract. we determine the estimated amount of backlog for work under msas by using recurring historical trends inherent in current msas, factoring in seasonal demand and projected customer needs based upon ongoing communications with the customer. in addition, many of our msas, as well as contracts for fiber optic licensing, are subject to renewal options. as of december 31, 2014 and 2013, msas accounted for approximately 38% and 31% of our estimated 12 month backlog and approximately 45% and 44% of total backlog. there can be no assurance as to our customers actual requirements or that our estimates are accurate. competition the markets in which we operate are highly competitive. we compete with other contractors in most of the geographic markets in which we operate, and several of our competitors are large companies that have significant financial, technical and marketing resources. in addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry into some of the industries in which we operate and, as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become a competitor. a significant portion of our revenues is currently derived from unit price or fixed price agreements, and price is often an important factor in the award of such agreements. accordingly, we could be underbid by our competitors in an effort by them to procure such business. we believe that as demand for our services increases, customers often consider other factors in choosing a service provider, including technical expertise and experience, financial and operational resources, nationwide presence, industry reputation and dependability, which we expect to benefit larger contractors such as us. in addition, competition may lessen as industry resources, such as labor supplies, approach capacity. there can be no assurance, however, that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services, or that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position. we also face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers, including electric power, oil and gas and engineering companies, which employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services as those provided by us. although a significant portion of these services is currently outsourced by many of our customers, in particular services relating to larger energy transmission infrastructure projects, there can be no assurance that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource these services in the future. employees as of december 31, 2014, we had approximately 24,600 employees, consisting of approximately 3,900 salaried employees, including executive officers, professional and administrative staff, project managers and engineers, job superintendents and clerical personnel, and approximately 20,700 hourly employees, the number of which fluctuates depending upon the number and size of the projects we undertake at any particular time. approximately 52% of our hourly employees at december 31, 2014 were covered by collective bargaining agreements, primarily with the international brotherhood of electrical workers (ibew), the canadian union skilled workers (cusw), australia workers union and the four pipeline construction trade unions administered by the pipe line contractors association (plca), which are the laborers international union of north america, international brotherhood of teamsters (teamsters), united association of plumbers and pipefitters and the international union of operating engineers. these collective bargaining agreements require the payment of specified wages to our union employees, the observance of certain workplace rules and the payment of certain amounts to multi-employer pension plans and employee benefit trusts rather than us sponsoring or administering the benefit programs provided on behalf of our employees. these collective bargaining agreements have varying terms and expiration dates. the majority of the collective bargaining agreements contain provisions that prohibit work stoppages or strikes, even during specified negotiation periods relating to agreement renewals, and provide for binding arbitration dispute resolution in the event of prolonged disagreement. 9 table of contents we provide health, welfare and benefit plans for employees who are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. we also have a 401(k) plan pursuant to which eligible employees who are not provided retirement benefits through a collective bargaining agreement may make contributions through a payroll deduction. we make matching cash contributions of 100% of each employee contribution up to 3% of that employee salary and 50% of each employee contribution between 3% and 6% of such employee salary, up to the maximum amount permitted by law. our industry is experiencing a shortage of journeyman linemen in certain geographic areas. in response to the shortage and to attract qualified employees, we utilize various ibew and national electrical contractors association (neca) training programs and support the joint ibew/neca apprenticeship program which trains qualified electrical workers. certain of our canadian operations also support the cusw apprenticeship programs for training construction and maintenance electricians and powerline technicians. we have also established apprenticeship training programs approved by the u.s. department of labor for employees not subject to the ibew/neca apprenticeship program, as well as additional company-wide and project-specific employee training and educational programs. we believe our relationships with our employees and union representatives are good. materials our customers typically supply most or all of the materials required for each job. however, for some of our contracts, we may procure all or part of the materials required. as we continue to expand our comprehensive engineering, procurement and construction offerings, particularly associated with utility scale solar projects, the cost of materials may become a proportionately larger component of our consolidated cost of services. we purchase such materials from a variety of sources and do not anticipate experiencing any significant difficulties in procuring such materials. training, quality assurance and safety performance of our services requires the use of equipment and exposure to conditions that can be dangerous. although we are committed to a policy of operating safely and prudently, we have been and will continue to be subject to claims by employees, customers and third parties for property damage and personal injuries resulting from performance of our services. our operating units have established comprehensive safety policies, procedures and regulations and require that employees complete prescribed training and service programs prior to performing more sophisticated and technical jobs, which is in addition to those programs required, if applicable, by the ibew/neca apprenticeship program, the training programs sponsored by the four trade unions administered by the plca, the apprenticeship training programs sponsored by the cusw or our equivalent programs. under the ibew/neca apprenticeship program, all journeyman linemen are required to complete a minimum of 7,000 hours of on-the-job training, approximately 144 hours of classroom education and extensive testing and certification. certain of our operating units have established apprenticeship training programs approved by the u.s. department of labor that prescribe equivalent training requirements for employees who are not otherwise subject to the requirements of the ibew/neca apprenticeship program. similarly, the cusw offers apprenticeship training for construction and maintenance electricians that requires five terms of 1,700 hours each, combining classroom and on-the-job training, as well as training for powerline technicians that also involves classroom and jobsite training over a four-year period. in addition, the laborers international union of north america, international brotherhood of teamsters, united association of plumbers and pipefitters and the international union of operating engineers have training programs specifically designed for developing and improving the skills of their members who work in the pipeline construction industry. our operating units also benefit from sharing best practices regarding their training and educational programs and comprehensive safety policies and regulations. 10 table of contents regulation our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws and regulations including: licensing, permitting and inspection requirements applicable to contractors, electricians and engineers; regulations relating to worker safety and environmental protection; permitting and inspection requirements applicable to construction projects; wage and hour regulations; regulations relating to transportation of equipment and materials, including licensing and permitting requirements; building and electrical codes; telecommunications regulations relating to our fiber optic licensing business; and special bidding, procurement and other requirements on government projects. we believe that we have all the licenses required to conduct our operations and that we are in substantial compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating licenses, as well as give rise to termination or cancellation rights under our contracts or disqualify us from future bidding opportunities. environmental matters and climate change impacts we are committed to the protection of the environment and train our employees to perform their duties accordingly. we are subject to numerous federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations governing our operations, including the handling, transportation and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous substances and wastes, as well as emissions and discharges into the environment, including discharges to air, surface water, groundwater and soil. we also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and cleanup responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. under certain of these laws and regulations, such liabilities can be imposed for cleanup of previously owned or operated properties, or properties to which hazardous substances or wastes were sent by current or former operations at our facilities, regardless of whether we directly caused the contamination or violated any law at the time of discharge or disposal. the presence of contamination from such substances or wastes could interfere with ongoing operations or adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or use our properties as collateral for financing. in addition, we could be held liable for significant penalties and damages under certain environmental laws and regulations and also could be subject to a revocation of our licenses or permits, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. our contracts with our customers may also impose liabilities on us regarding environmental issues that arise through the performance of our services. from time to time, we may incur costs and obligations for correcting environmental noncompliance matters and for remediation at or relating to certain of our properties. we believe that we are in substantial compliance with our environmental obligations to date and that any such obligations will not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial performance. the potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain. climate change may result in, among other things, changes in rainfall patterns, storm patterns and intensities and temperature levels. as discussed elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k, including in item 1a. risk factors , our operating results are significantly influenced by weather. therefore, significant changes in historical weather patterns could significantly impact our future operating results. for example, if climate change results in drier weather and more accommodating temperatures over a greater period of time in a given period, we may be able to increase our productivity, which could have a positive impact on our revenues and gross margins. in addition, 11 table of contents if climate change results in an increase in severe weather, such as hurricanes and ice storms, we could experience a greater amount of higher margin emergency restoration service work, which generally has a positive impact on our gross margins. conversely, if climate change results in a greater amount of rainfall, snow, ice or other less accommodating weather conditions in a given period, we could experience reduced productivity, which could negatively impact our revenues and gross margins. risk management and insurance we are insured for employer liability, general liability, auto liability and workers compensation claims. under these programs, the deductibles were $10.0 million per occurrence for general liability and auto liability, $5.0 million per occurrence for workers compensation, and $1.0 million per occurrence for employer liability for the policy years 2014-2015 and 2013-2014. for the 2012-2013 policy year, the deductibles were $5.0 million per occurrence for general liability, auto liability and workers compensation and $1.0 million per occurrence for employer liability. we are generally self-insured for all claims that do not exceed the amount of the applicable deductible. in connection with our casualty insurance programs, we are required to issue letters of credit to secure our self-insured obligations. we also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $375,000 per claimant per year. losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimate of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. these insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the number of incidents not reported. the accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals are adequate. we renew our insurance policies on an annual basis, and therefore deductibles and levels of insurance coverage may change in future periods. in addition, insurers may cancel our coverage or determine to exclude certain items from coverage, or we may elect not to obtain certain types or incremental levels of insurance if we believe that the cost to obtain such coverage exceeds the additional benefits obtained. in any such event, our overall risk exposure would increase, which could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. seasonality and cyclicality our revenues and results of operations can be subject to seasonal and other variations. these variations are influenced by weather, customer spending patterns, bidding seasons, project timing and schedules, and holidays. typically, our revenues are lowest in the first quarter of the year because cold, snowy or wet conditions can cause delays on projects. in addition, many of our customers develop their capital budgets for the coming year during the first quarter and do not begin infrastructure projects in a meaningful way until their capital budgets are finalized. second quarter revenues are typically higher than those in the first quarter, as some projects begin, but continued cold and wet weather can often impact second quarter productivity. third quarter revenues are typically the highest of the year, as a greater number of projects are underway and weather is more accommodating. generally, revenues during the fourth quarter of the year are lower than the third quarter but higher than the second quarter. many projects are completed in the fourth quarter, and revenues are often impacted positively by customers seeking to spend their capital budgets before the end of the year; however, the holiday season and inclement weather can sometimes cause delays, reducing revenues and increasing costs. any quarter may be positively or negatively affected by atypical weather patterns in any of the areas we serve, such as severe weather, excessive rainfall or warmer winter weather, making it difficult to predict these variations and their effect on particular projects quarter to quarter. the timing of project awards and unanticipated changes in project schedules as a result of delays or accelerations can also create variations in the level of operating activity from quarter to quarter. 12 table of contents these seasonal impacts are typical for our u.s. operations, but as our foreign operations continue to grow, we may see a lessening of this pattern impacting our quarterly revenues. for example, revenues in canada are often higher in the first quarter as projects are accelerated so that work can be completed prior to the break up, or seasonal thaw, as productivity is adversely affected by wet ground conditions during the warmer spring and summer months. also, although revenues from australia and other international operations have not been significant relative to our overall revenues to date, their seasonal patterns may differ from those in north america and may impact our seasonality more in the future. additionally, our industry can be highly cyclical. as a result, our volume of business may be adversely affected by declines or delays in new projects in various geographic regions, including the united states, canada and australia. project schedules, particularly in connection with larger, longer-term projects, can also create fluctuations in the services provided, which may adversely affect us in a given period. the financial condition of our customers and their access to capital, variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular period, regional, national and global economic and market conditions, timing of acquisitions, the timing and magnitude of acquisition and integration costs associated with acquisitions, dispositions, fluctuations in our equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated affiliates, impairments of goodwill, intangible assets, long-lived assets or investments and interest rate fluctuations are examples of items that may also materially affect quarterly results. accordingly, our operating results in any particular period may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other period. you should read outlook and understanding margins included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for additional discussion of trends and challenges that may affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. website access and other information our website address is www.quantaservices.com. interested parties may obtain free electronic copies of our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to these reports through our website under the heading investors &amp; media/sec filings or through the website of the securities and exchange commission (the sec) at www.sec.gov. these reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the sec. in addition, our corporate governance guidelines, code of ethics and business conduct and the charters of each of our audit committee, compensation committee, governance and nominating committee and investment committee are posted on our website under the heading investors &amp; media/corporate governance . we intend to disclose on our website any amendments or waivers to our code of ethics and business conduct that are required to be disclosed pursuant to item 5.05 of form 8-k. free copies of these items may be obtained from our website. we will make available to any stockholder, without charge, copies of our annual report on form 10-k as filed with the sec. for copies of this or any other quanta publication, stockholders may submit a request in writing to quanta services, inc., attn: corporate secretary, 2800 post oak blvd., suite 2600, houston, tx 77056, or by phone at 713-629-7600. this annual report on form 10-k and our website contain information provided by other sources that we believe are reliable. we cannot provide assurance that the information obtained from other sources is accurate or complete. no information on our website is incorporated by reference herein. item 1a. risk factors our business is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described below. the matters described below are not the only risks and uncertainties facing our company. additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below also may impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively affected and we may not be able to achieve our goals or expectations. this annual report on form 10-k also includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended as forward-looking statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and should be read in conjunction with the section entitled uncertainty of forward-looking statements and information included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 13 table of contents our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. our business can be highly cyclical and subject to seasonal and other variations that can result in significant differences in operating results from quarter to quarter. for example, we typically experience lower gross and operating margins during winter months due to lower demand for our services and more difficult operating conditions in the northern hemisphere. additionally, our quarterly results may be materially and/or adversely affected by: permitting, regulatory or customer-caused delays on projects; adverse weather conditions; variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular quarter; fluctuations in regional, national or global economic and market conditions and demand for our services; the budgetary spending patterns of customers and federal, state and local governments; disruptions in our customers strategic plans which could occur as a result of emerging technologies; increases in construction and design costs; the timing and volume of work we perform; the magnitude of work performed under change orders and the timing of their recognition; disputes with customers relating to payment terms under our contracts and change orders, and our ability to successfully negotiate and obtain payment or reimbursement under our contracts and change orders; the outcome or resolution of pending or threatened litigation, claims or other legal proceedings; liabilities associated with pension plans in which our employees participate or withdrawals therefrom; changes in accounting pronouncements that require us to account for items differently than historical pronouncements have; losses experienced in our operations not otherwise covered by insurance; a change in the mix of our customers, contracts and business; payment risk associated with the financial condition of our customers; the termination or expiration of existing agreements; pricing pressures resulting from competition; changes in bonding and lien requirements applicable to existing and new agreements; implementation of various information systems, which could temporarily disrupt day-to-day operations; the recognition of tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions; the timing and magnitude of costs we incur to support growth internally or through acquisitions or otherwise; the timing and integration of acquisitions and the magnitude of the related acquisition and integration costs; the timing and significance of potential impairments of long-lived assets, equity or other investments, goodwill or other intangible assets; and significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. 14 table of contents accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other quarter or for the entire year. negative economic and market conditions may adversely impact our customers future spending as well as payment for our services and, as a result, our operations and growth. the economic recovery from the recession in 2008 and 2009 has been gradual and measured, and there is continuing uncertainty in the marketplace. stagnant or declining economic conditions have adversely impacted the demand for our services in the past and resulted in the delay, reduction or cancellation of certain projects and may adversely affect us in the future. in addition, economic and market conditions specifically affecting any of the industries we serve could adversely affect our results of operations. a number of factors, including financing conditions and potential bankruptcies in the industries we serve or a prolonged economic downturn or recession, could adversely affect our customers and their ability or willingness to fund capital expenditures in the future or pay for past services. consolidation, competition, capital constraints or negative economic conditions in the electric power and oil and gas industries may also result in reduced spending by, or the loss of, one or more of our customers. our oil and gas infrastructure services segment is exposed to risks associated with the oil and gas industry. these risks, which are not subject to our control, include the volatility of natural gas and oil prices, the lack of demand for natural gas and oil, including from power generation from natural gas, and a slowdown in the development or discovery of natural gas and/or oil reserves. specifically, lower natural gas and oil prices could result in decreased spending by our customers in our oil and gas infrastructure services segment. the significant increase in the north american supply of natural gas due to ongoing development of unconventional shale formations has resulted in low natural gas prices for the past several years. additionally, there have been significant decreases in oil prices since mid-2014. if the development or discovery of natural gas and/or oil reserves slowed or stopped as a result of low natural gas and oil prices or otherwise, customers could reduce capital spending on mainline pipe, gas gathering and compressor systems and other related infrastructure, resulting in less demand for our services. if the profitability of our business under the oil and gas infrastructure services segment were to decline, our overall financial position, results of operations and cash flows could also be adversely affected. conversely, although higher natural gas and oil prices generally result in increased infrastructure spending by these customers, sustained high energy prices could be an impediment to economic growth and could result in reduced infrastructure spending by such customers. higher prices could also decrease spending on natural gas fired electricity generation facilities and related infrastructure, an important component of our electric power infrastructure services business. additionally, higher prices would likely reduce demand for power generation from natural gas, which could result in decreased demand for the expansion of north america natural gas pipeline infrastructure, and consequently result in less capital spending by these customers and less demand for our services. further, many of our customers finance their projects through the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. a reduction in cash flow or the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may result in a reduction in our customers spending for our services and may also impact the ability of our customers to pay amounts owed to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our ability to grow at historical levels. regulatory and environmental requirements affecting any of the industries we serve may lead to less demand for our services. because the vast majority of our revenue is derived from a few industries, regulatory and environmental requirements affecting any of those industries would adversely affect our results of operations. customers in the industries we serve face heightened regulatory and environmental requirements and stringent permitting processes as they implement plans for their projects, which can result in delays, reductions and cancellations of some of their projects. these regulatory factors have resulted in decreased demand for our services in the past, and they may continue to do so in the future, potentially impacting our operations and our ability to grow at historical levels. 15 table of contents project performance issues, including those caused by third parties, or certain contractual obligations may result in additional costs to us, reductions or delays in revenues or the payment of liquidated damages. many projects involve challenging engineering, procurement and construction phases that may occur over extended time periods, sometimes over several years. we may encounter difficulties as a result of delays in designs, engineering information or materials provided by the customer or a third party, delays or difficulties in equipment and material delivery, schedule changes, delays from our customers failure to timely obtain permits or rights of way or meet other regulatory requirements, weather-related delays and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, that can impact our ability to complete the project in accordance with the original delivery schedule. a failure by us to properly manage and invest in our equipment fleet could also negatively impact project performance and our results of operations. in addition, we occasionally contract with third-party suppliers and subcontractors to assist us with the completion of contracts. any delay or failure by suppliers or by subcontractors in the completion of their portion of the project may result in delays in the overall progress of the project or may cause us to incur additional costs, or both. we also may encounter project delays due to local opposition, which may include injunctive actions as well as public protests, to the siting of electric power, natural gas or oil transmission lines, solar or wind projects, or other facilities. delays and additional costs may be substantial and, in some cases, we may be required to compensate the customer for such delays. we may not be able to recover all of such costs. in certain circumstances, we guarantee project completion by a scheduled acceptance date or achievement of certain acceptance and performance testing levels. failure to meet any of our schedules or performance requirements could also result in additional costs or penalties, including liquidated damages, and such amounts could exceed expected project profit. in extreme cases, the above-mentioned factors could cause project cancellations, and we may not be able to replace such projects with similar projects or at all. such delays or cancellations may impact our reputation or relationships with customers, adversely affecting our ability to secure new contracts. our customers may change or delay various elements of a project after its commencement, or the design, engineering information, equipment or materials that are to be provided by the customer or other parties may be deficient or delivered later than required by the project schedule, resulting in additional direct or indirect costs. under these circumstances, we generally negotiate with the customer with respect to the amount of additional time required and the compensation to be paid to us. we are subject to the risk that we may be unable to obtain, through negotiation, arbitration, litigation or otherwise, adequate amounts to compensate us for the additional work or expenses incurred by us due to the above-mentioned delays and additional costs, including as a result of customer-requested change orders or failure by the customer to timely meet its obligations. litigation or arbitration with respect to payment terms under contracts and change orders may be lengthy and costly and may adversely affect our relationship with our customers, and it is often difficult to predict when and for how much the claims will be resolved. a failure to obtain adequate compensation for these matters could require us to record a reduction to amounts of revenue and gross profit recognized in prior periods under the percentage-of-completion accounting method. any such adjustments could be substantial. we may also be required to invest significant working capital to fund cost overruns while the resolution of claims is pending, which could adversely affect liquidity and financial results in any given period. our business is labor intensive, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees. our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability will be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy. for instance, we may experience shortages of qualified journeyman linemen, who are integral to the provision of transmission and distribution services under our electric power infrastructure services segment. the commencement of new, large-scale infrastructure projects or increased demand for infrastructure improvements, as well as the aging electric utility workforce, may also further reduce the pool of skilled workers available to us. in addition, in our oil and gas infrastructure services segment, there is limited availability of experienced supervisors and foremen that can oversee large mainline pipe projects. a shortage in the supply of these skilled 16 table of contents personnel creates competitive hiring markets and may result in increased labor expenses. additionally, if we are unable to hire employees with requisite skills, we may also be forced to incur significant training expenses. labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues or profitability. our use of fixed price contracts could adversely affect our business and results of operations. we currently generate a portion of our revenues under fixed price contracts. we also expect to generate a greater portion of our revenues under this type of contract in the future as larger projects, such as electric power and pipeline transmission build-outs and utility-scale solar facilities, become a more significant aspect of our business. we assume risks related to revenue and cost on fixed-priced contracts. actual revenues and project costs can vary, sometimes substantially, from our original projections due to changes in a variety of factors including: unforeseen circumstances not included in our cost estimates or covered by our contract for which we cannot obtain adequate compensation; changes in the cost of equipment, commodities, materials or labor; unanticipated costs or claims due to customer-caused delays, errors in specifications or designs, project modifications, or contract termination and our inability to obtain reimbursement for such costs or recover on such claims; weather conditions; failure to perform by our project owners, suppliers or subcontractors; difficulties in obtaining required permits or approvals; quality issues requiring rework; changes in laws and regulations; and general economic conditions. these variations, along with other risks inherent in performing fixed price contracts may cause actual revenue and gross profits for a project to differ from those we originally estimated and could result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. depending upon the size of a particular project, variations from the estimated contract costs could have a significant impact on our operating results for any fiscal period. our use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits. as discussed in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data , a significant portion of our revenues are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, utilizing the cost-to-cost method. this method is used because management considers expended costs to be the best available measure of progress on these contracts. this accounting method is generally accepted for fixed price contracts. the percentage-of-completion accounting practice we use results in our recognizing contract revenues and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. the earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability. contract losses are recognized in full when determined to be probable and reasonably estimable, and contract profit estimates are adjusted based on ongoing reviews of contract profitability. further, a substantial portion of our contracts contain various cost and performance incentives. penalties are recorded when known or finalized, which generally occurs during the latter stages of the contract. in addition, we record cost recovery claims when we believe recovery is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. actual collection of claims could differ from estimated amounts and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings. in certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be significant. 17 table of contents our failure to adequately recover on claims brought by us against customers related to payment terms and costs could materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. we have in the past brought and may in the future bring claims against our customer related to, among other things, the payment terms of our contracts and change orders relating to our contracts. these types of claims occur due to, among other things, matters such as customer-caused delays or changes from the initial project scope, both of which may result in additional cost. these claims can be the subject of lengthy arbitration or litigation proceedings, and it is difficult to accurately predict when these claims will be fully resolved. when these types of events occur and unresolved claims are pending, we have used working capital in projects to cover, among other things, cost overruns pending the resolution of the relevant claims. a failure to promptly recover on these types of claims could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operating results can be negatively affected by weather conditions. we perform substantially all of our services outdoors. as a result, adverse weather conditions, such as rainfall or snow, may affect our productivity or may temporarily prevent us from performing services. the effect of weather delays on projects that are under fixed price arrangements may be greater if we are unable to adjust the project schedule for such delays. a reduction in our productivity in any given period or our inability to meet guaranteed schedules may adversely affect the profitability of our projects, and as a result, our results of operations. we may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth. our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to: expand the range of services we offer to customers to address their evolving infrastructure needs; attract new customers; increase the number of projects performed for existing customers; hire and retain qualified employees; expand geographically, including internationally; and address the challenges presented by stringent regulatory, environmental and permitting requirements and difficult economic or market conditions that may affect us or our customers. in addition, our customers may cancel, delay or reduce the number or size of projects available to us for a variety of reasons, including capital constraints or inability to meet regulatory requirements. many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies for achieving internal growth will be successful. our business is highly competitive. the specialty contracting business is served by numerous small, owner-operated private companies, some public companies and several large regional companies. in addition, relatively few barriers prevent entry into some areas of our business. as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become one of our competitors. a substantial portion of our revenues is directly or indirectly dependent on winning new contracts. the timing of when project awards will be made is unpredictable and often involves complex and lengthy negotiations and bidding processes. these processes can be impacted by a wide variety of factors, including price, governmental approvals, financing contingencies, commodity prices, environmental conditions and overall market and economic conditions. we are currently experiencing the impacts of competitive pricing in certain of the markets we serve, such as the electric power market with respect 18 table of contents to smaller scale transmission projects and distribution services. in addition, our bids may not be successful because of a client perception of our ability to perform the work or a client perception of technology advantages held by our competitors as well as other factors. certain of our competitors may have lower overhead cost structures. therefore, they may be able to provide their services at lower rates than we are able to provide. in addition, some of our competitors have significant resources, including financial, technical and marketing resources. we cannot be certain that our competitors do not have or will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services. similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position within the specialty contracting business or maintain our customer base at current levels. we also face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers. electric power and oil and gas service providers usually employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services we provide, and we cannot be certain that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource services in the future. changes in government spending and legislative actions and initiatives relating to renewable energy and electric power may adversely affect demand for our services. demand for our services may not result from renewable energy initiatives. while many states currently have mandates in place that require specified percentages of power to be generated from renewable sources, states could reduce those mandates or make them optional, which could reduce, delay or eliminate renewable energy development in the affected states. additionally, renewable energy is generally more expensive to produce than traditional energy sources and may require additional power generation sources as backup. the locations of renewable energy projects are often remote and are not viable unless new or expanded transmission infrastructure to transport the power to demand centers is economically feasible. furthermore, funding for renewable energy initiatives may not be available, which has been further constrained as a result of tight credit markets. these factors have resulted in fewer renewable energy projects than anticipated and a delay in the construction of these projects and the related infrastructure, which has adversely affected the demand for our services. these factors could continue to result in delays or reductions in projects, which could further negatively impact our business. the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 (arra) provides for various stimulus programs, such as grants, loan guarantees and tax incentives, relating to renewable energy, energy efficiency and electric power infrastructure. some of these programs have expired, which may affect the economic feasibility of future projects. additionally, while a significant amount of stimulus funds have been awarded, we cannot predict the timing and scope of any investments to be made under stimulus funding or whether stimulus funding will result in increased demand for our services. investments for renewable energy, electric power infrastructure and telecommunications fiber deployment under arra programs may not occur, may be less than anticipated or may be delayed, any of which would negatively impact demand for our services. other current and potential legislative or regulatory initiatives may not result in increased demand for our services. examples include legislation or regulations to require utilities to meet reliability standards, to ease siting and right-of-way issues for the construction of transmission lines, and to encourage installation of new electric power transmission and renewable energy generation facilities. it is not certain whether existing legislation will create sufficient incentives for new projects, when or if proposed legislative initiatives will be enacted or whether any potentially beneficial provisions will be included in the final legislation. there are also a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to address greenhouse gas emissions, which are in various phases of discussion or implementation. the outcome of federal and state actions to address global climate change could negatively affect the operations of our customers through costs of compliance or restraints on projects, which could reduce their demand for our services. 19 table of contents our business is subject to operational hazards, and we are self-insured against certain potential liabilities. our business is subject to significant operational hazards due to the nature of services provided by our workforce and the conditions in which they operate. these hazards include those involving electricity, fires, natural gas explosions, mechanical failures and weather-related incidents. our offshore operations are further subject to heightened risks, including blowouts, collisions, capsizings, vessels sinking and damage from severe weather conditions. these hazards could cause personal injury, severe damage to property, equipment and the environment and could lead to suspension of operations and legal liabilities. if we are not fully insured or indemnified against such risks or a counterparty fails to meet its indemnification obligations to us, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. further, our safety record may impact our ability to bid on certain work. we are insured for employer liability, general liability, auto liability and workers compensation claims, but such insurance is subject to deductibles and limits and may be canceled or may not cover all of our losses. the deductibles under our insurance programs for the policy year 2014-2015 are $10.0 million per occurrence for general liability and auto liability insurance programs, $5.0 million per occurrence for workers compensation, and $1.0 million per occurrence for employer liability. we are generally self-insured for all claims that do not exceed the amount of the applicable deductible. we also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $375,000 per claimant per year. our insurance policies include various coverage requirements, including the requirement to give appropriate notice. if we fail to comply with these requirements, our coverage could be denied. losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. these insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the number of incidents not reported. the accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals are adequate. if we were to experience insurance claims or costs significantly above our estimates, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected in a given period. during the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to lawsuits or indemnity claims, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. we have in the past been, and may in the future be, named as a defendant in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings during the ordinary course of our business. these actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract, property damage, environmental liabilities, pension plan withdrawal liabilities, punitive damages, and civil penalties or other losses or injunctive or declaratory relief. in addition, we generally indemnify our customers for claims related to the services we provide and actions we take under our contracts with them, and, in some instances, we may be allocated risk through our contract terms for actions by our customers or other third parties. because our services in certain instances may be integral to the operation and performance of our customers infrastructure, we have been and may become subject to lawsuits or claims for any failure of the systems that we work on, even if our services are not the cause of such failures, and we could be subject to civil and criminal liabilities to the extent that our services contributed to any property damage, personal injury or system failure. insurance coverage may not be available or may be insufficient for these lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings. the outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings could result in significant costs and diversion of management attention to the business. payments of significant amounts, even if reserved, could adversely affect our reputation, liquidity and results of operations. for details on our existing litigation and claims, refer to note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. 20 table of contents unavailability or cancellation of third party insurance coverage would increase our overall risk exposure as well as disrupt our operations. we maintain insurance coverage from third party insurers as part of our overall risk management strategy and because some of our contracts require us to maintain specific insurance coverage limits. there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will be sufficient or effective under all circumstances or against all claims and liabilities which we may be subject. additionally, we renew our insurance policies on an annual basis; therefore, deductibles and levels of insurance coverage may change in future periods. there can be no assurance that any of our existing insurance coverage will be renewed upon the expiration of the coverage period or that future coverage will be affordable at the required limits. in addition, our third party insurers could fail, suddenly cancel our coverage or otherwise be unable to provide us with adequate insurance coverage. if any of these events occur, our overall risk exposure would increase and our operations could be disrupted. for example, we have significant operations in california and other u.s. states which have an increased risk of wildfires. should our insurers determine to exclude coverage for wildfires in the future, we could be exposed to significant liabilities and potentially a disruption of our california operations. if our risk exposure increases as a result of adverse changes in our insurance coverage, we could be subject to increased claims and liabilities that could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. many of our contracts may be canceled on short notice or may not be renewed upon completion or expiration, and we may be unsuccessful in replacing our contracts in such events, which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we could experience a decrease in our revenue, net income and liquidity if any of the following occur: our customers cancel a significant number of contracts or contracts having significant value; we fail to renew a significant number of our existing contracts; we complete a significant number of non-recurring projects and cannot replace them with similar projects; or we fail to reduce operating and overhead expenses consistent with any decrease in our revenue. many of our customers may cancel our contracts on short notice, typically 30 to 90 days, even if we are not in default under the contract. certain of our customers assign work to us on a project-by-project basis under master service agreements. under these agreements, our customers often have no obligation to assign a specific amount of work to us. our operations could decline significantly if the anticipated volume of work is not assigned to us, which will be more likely if customer spending decreases, for example, due to the slow recovery of the economy. many of our contracts, including our master service agreements, are opened to public bid at the expiration of their terms. there can be no assurance that we will be the successful bidder on our existing contracts that come up for re-bid. the nature of our business exposes us to warranty claims, which may reduce our profitability. under our contracts with customers, we typically provide a warranty for the services we provide, guaranteeing the work performed against defects in workmanship and material. the majority of our contracts have a warranty period of 12 months. as much of the work we perform is inspected by our customers for any defects in construction prior to acceptance of the project, the warranty claims that we have historically received have been minimal. additionally, materials used in construction are often provided by the customer or are warranted against defects by the supplier. however, certain projects, such as utility-scale solar facilities, may have longer warranty periods and include facility performance warranties that may be broader than the warranties we generally provide. in these circumstances, if warranty claims occurred, it could require us to re-perform the services or to repair or replace the warranted item, at a cost to us, and could also result in other damages if we are not able to adequately satisfy our warranty obligations. in addition, we may be required under contractual 21 table of contents arrangements with our customers to warrant any defects or failures in materials we provide that we purchase from third parties. while we generally require the materials suppliers to provide us warranties that are consistent with those we provide to the customers, if any of these suppliers default on their warranty obligations to us, we may incur costs to repair or replace the defective materials for which we are not reimbursed. costs incurred as a result of warranty claims could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the loss of one or a few customers could have a material adverse effect on us. a few customers have in the past and may in the future account for a significant portion of our revenue in any one year or over a period of several consecutive years. although we have long-standing relationships with many of our significant customers, our customers may unilaterally reduce or discontinue their contracts with us at any time. our loss of business from a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. backlog may not be realized or may not result in profits. backlog is not a term recognized under us gaap; however, it is a common measurement used in our industry. our methodology for determining backlog may not be comparable to the methodologies used by other companies. for a discussion of how we calculate backlog for our business, please see backlog in item 1. business . furthermore, backlog is difficult to determine with certainty. customers often have no obligation under our contracts to assign or release work to us, and many contracts may be terminated on short notice. reductions in backlog due to cancellation or reduction in scope of one or more contracts or projects by a customer or for other reasons could significantly reduce the revenue and profit we actually receive from contracts included in backlog. in the event of a project cancellation or reduction in scope, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but would not have a contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. the backlog we obtain in connection with any companies we acquire may not be as large as we believed or may not result in the revenue or profits we expected. in addition, projects that are delayed may remain in backlog for extended periods of time. all of these uncertainties are heightened by negative economic conditions and their impact on our customers spending, as well as the effects of regulatory requirements and weather conditions. consequently, we cannot assure that our estimates of backlog are accurate or that we will be able to realize our estimated backlog. our financial results are based upon estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. in preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with us gaap, several estimates and assumptions are used by management in determining the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses recognized during the periods presented and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities known to exist as of the date of the financial statements. these estimates and assumptions must be made because certain information that is used in the preparation of our financial statements is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available or is not capable of being readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. in some cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine, and we must exercise significant judgment. estimates are used primarily in our assessment of the allowance for doubtful accounts, valuation of inventory, useful lives of assets, fair value assumptions in analyzing goodwill, other intangibles and long-lived asset impairments, equity and other investments, loan receivables, purchase price allocations, liabilities for self-insured and other claims and guarantees, multi-employer pension plan withdrawal liabilities, revenue recognition for construction contracts inclusive of contractual change orders and claims, revenue recognition for fiber optic licensing contracts, share-based compensation, operating results of reportable segments, provision (benefit) for income taxes and the calculation of uncertain tax positions. actual results for all estimates could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 22 table of contents our inability to successfully execute our acquisition strategy may have an adverse impact on our growth strategy. our business strategy includes expanding our presence in the industries we serve through strategic acquisitions of companies that complement or enhance our business. the number of acquisition targets that meet our criteria may be limited, and we may also face competition for acquisition opportunities. some of our competitors may offer more favorable terms than us or have greater financial resources than we do. this competition may further limit our acquisition opportunities and our ability to grow through acquisitions or could raise the prices of acquisitions and make them less accretive or possibly not accretive to us. acquisitions that we may pursue may also involve significant cash expenditures, the incurrence or assumption of debt or burdensome regulatory requirements. any acquisition may ultimately have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. any of these factors could inhibit our ability to consummate future acquisitions, which could negatively affect our growth strategies. we may be unsuccessful at integrating businesses that either we have acquired or that we may acquire in the future, which may reduce the anticipated benefit from acquired businesses. as a part of our business strategy, we have acquired, and may seek to acquire in the future, companies that complement or enhance our business. the success of this strategy will depend on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquired businesses, such as the expansion of our existing operations, elimination of redundant costs and capitalizing on cross-selling opportunities. to realize these benefits, however, we must successfully integrate the operations of the acquired businesses with our existing operations. we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully integrate acquired companies with our existing operations without substantial costs, delays, disruptions or other operational or financial problems. additionally, if we do not implement proper overall business controls, our decentralized operating strategy could result in inconsistent operating and financial practices at the companies we acquire. issues related to the integration process may result in adverse impact to our revenues, earnings and cash flows. integrating our acquired companies involves a number of special risks that could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including: failure of acquired companies to achieve the results we expect; diversion of our management attention from operational and other matters; difficulties integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies; additional financial reporting and accounting challenges associated with integrating acquired companies; inability to retain key personnel of acquired companies; risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities; loss of business due to customer overlap or change from local or private ownership; risks and liabilities arising from the prior operations of acquired companies, such as performance, operational, safety, workforce or tax issues, some of which we may not have discovered during our due diligence and may not be covered by indemnification obligations; and potential disruptions of our business. our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of impairments of goodwill, other intangible assets or our investments. when we acquire a business, we record an asset called goodwill equal to the excess amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business we acquire. goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives cannot be amortized, but instead 23 table of contents must be tested at least annually for impairment, while intangible assets that have finite useful lives are amortized over their useful lives. the accounting literature provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for impairment. refer to item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies for a detailed discussion. management is required to make certain estimates and assumptions when allocating goodwill to reporting units and determining the fair value of a reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. fair value is determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches. absent any impairment indicators, we perform our impairment tests annually during the fourth quarter. if there is a decrease in market capitalization below book value in the future, this may be considered an impairment indicator. in addition, we enter into various types of investment arrangements in the normal course of business, each having unique terms and conditions. these investments may include equity interests we hold in business entities, including general or limited partnerships, contractual joint ventures or other forms of equity participation. these investments may also include our participation in different finance structures such as the extension of loans to project specific entities, the acquisition of convertible notes issued by project specific entities or other strategic financing arrangements. our equity method investments are carried at original cost and are included in other assets, net in our consolidated balance sheet and are adjusted for our proportionate share of the investees income, losses and distributions. equity investments are reviewed for impairment by assessing whether any decline in the fair value of the investment below the carrying value is other than temporary. in making this determination, factors such as the ability to recover the carrying amount of the investment and the inability of the investee to sustain future earnings capacity are evaluated in determining whether an impairment has occurred and should be recognized. any future impairments, including impairments of goodwill, intangible assets or investments, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the period in which the impairment is recognized. new federal or state telecommunications regulations, or changes in, or interpretations of, existing regulations, could adversely affect our fiber optic licensing and other segment. many of our fiber optic licensing and other segment customers benefit from the universal service e-rate program, which was established by congress in the 1996 telecommunications act and is administered by the universal service administrative company (usac) under the oversight of the federal communications commission (fcc). under the e-rate program, schools, libraries and certain healthcare facilities may receive subsidies for certain approved telecommunications services, internet access and internal connections. from time to time, bills have been introduced in congress that would eliminate or curtail the e-rate program. passage of such actions by the fcc or usac to further limit e-rate subsidies could decrease the demand by certain customers for the services offered by our fiber optic licensing and other segment. the licensing services we provide through our fiber optic licensing and other segment are subject to regulation by the fcc, to the extent that they are interstate telecommunications services, and by state regulatory agencies, when wholly within a particular state. to remain eligible to provide services under the e-rate program, we must maintain telecommunications authorizations in every state where we operate, and we must obtain such authorizations in any new state where we plan to operate. changes in federal or state regulations could reduce the profitability of our fiber optic licensing and other segment, and delays in obtaining new authorizations could inhibit our ability to grow our fiber optic licensing and other segment in new geographic areas. we could be subject to fines if the fcc or a state regulatory agency were to determine that any of our activities or positions are not in compliance with certain regulations. if the profitability of our fiber optic licensing and other segment were to decline, or if the business of this segment were to become subject to fines, our overall results of operations and cash flows could also be adversely affected. 24 table of contents our fiber optic services are capital intensive, require substantial investments, may expose us to industry specific risks and may have returns on investments that are less than expected. our fiber optic licensing business requires substantial amounts of capital investment to build out new fiber networks. in 2015, our proposed capital expenditures for our fiber optic licensing business are approximately $50 million to $60 million, $16.8 million of which is related to committed licensing arrangements as of december 31, 2014. although we generally do not commit capital to new networks until we have a committed license arrangement in place with at least one customer, we may not be able to recoup our initial investment in the network, and we may not realize a return on the capital investment for an extended period of time. furthermore, the amount of capital that we invest in our fiber optic network may exceed planned expenditures as a result of various factors, including difficulty in obtaining permits or rights of way or unexpected increases in costs due to labor, materials or project productivity, which would result in a decrease in the returns on our capital investments if licensing fees for the network were committed and could not be renegotiated. new or developing technologies or significant competition in any of our markets could also negatively impact our fiber optic licensing business. any of these events could adversely affect our results of operations or result in an impairment of our fiber optic network. our expansion into the lit services market exposes us to additional risks, as we will be providing access to the fiber network that we own, as well as providing networking equipment and assuming responsibility for network management and service quality. these risks include, but are not limited to, those related to our ability to secure customers for our network in a competitive environment, and the ability to obtain additional capacity in the event of increased demand; network failures and service interruptions, including those outside of our control when we use dark fiber networks or circuits that we do not own or operate, which could expose us to customer liability or require expensive modifications; our ability to obtain agreements with building owners and managers to provide us with access to serve customers in multi-tenant facilities; our ability to obtain or construct additional building laterals to connect new buildings to our network; compliance with laws and regulations applicable to internet service providers; internet connectivity at both public and private interconnection points with network providers; relationships and agreements with carrier neutral data center operators and incumbent local exchange carriers; and security breaches and unauthorized access to our systems. we extend credit to customers for purchases of our services and may enter into longer-term deferred payment arrangements or provide other financing or investment arrangements with certain of our customers, which subjects us to potential credit or investment risk that could, if realized, adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we grant credit, generally without collateral, to our customers, which include electric power utilities, oil and gas companies, governmental entities, general contractors, and builders, owners and managers of renewable energy facilities and commercial and industrial properties located primarily in the united states, canada and australia. we may also agree to allow our customers to defer payment on projects until certain milestones have been met or until the projects are substantially completed, and customers typically withhold some portion of amounts due to us as retainage. in addition, we may provide other forms of financing to our customers or make investments in our customers projects, typically in situations where we also provide services in connection with the projects. our payment arrangements with our customers subject us to potential credit risk related to changes in business and economic factors affecting our customers, including material changes in our customers revenues or cash flows. these changes may also reduce the value of any financing or equity investment arrangements we have with our customers. many of our customers have been negatively impacted by uncertain economic conditions in recent years, and some may experience financial difficulties (including bankruptcies) that could impact our ability to collect amounts owed to us or impair the value of our investments in them. if we are unable to collect amounts owed to us, our cash flows would be reduced and we could experience losses if the uncollectible amounts exceeded current allowances. we would also recognize losses with respect to any investments that are impaired as a result of our customers financial difficulties. losses experienced could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the risks of collectability and impairment losses may increase for projects where we provide services as well as make a financing or equity investment. 25 table of contents the loss of key personnel could disrupt our business. we depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and senior management, including the management at each of our operating units. although we typically enter into employment agreements with terms of one to three years with our executive officers and certain other key employees, we cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time or that key employees of our future acquisition targets will be willing to enter into such agreements. the loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business. we do not carry key-person life insurance on any of our employees. we may be required to contribute cash to meet our underfunded obligations in certain multi-employer pension plans. our collective bargaining agreements generally require us to participate with other companies in multi-employer pension plans. to the extent those plans are underfunded, the employee retirement income security act of 1974, as amended by the multi-employer pension plan amendments act of 1980, may subject us to substantial liabilities under those plans if we withdraw from them or they are terminated or experience a mass withdrawal. for example, in the fourth quarter of 2011, we recognized a $32.6 million liability when certain of our subsidiaries withdrew from the central states, southeast and southwest areas pension plan (the central states plan). the amount of this liability was estimated based on information received from the central states plan in 2011. in march 2014, the central states plan provided revised estimates indicating that the withdrawal liability based on certain withdrawal scenarios from 2011 through 2014 could range between $40.1 million and $55.4 million, and we recorded an adjustment to costs of services during the three months ended march 31, 2014 to increase the recognized withdrawal liability to an amount within such range. the actual amount assessed by the plan for the withdrawal and the amount that we ultimately pay for the withdrawal liability may be materially different than the amount currently recorded. additionally, on october 9, 2013, we acquired a company that experienced a complete withdrawal from the central states plan prior to the date of our acquisition. the central states plan issued a notice and demand to the acquired company for a withdrawal liability and the acquired company, and now quanta, has taken steps to challenge the amount of the assessment. for additional information on these matters, please see collective bargaining agreements in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data . in addition, the pension protection act of 2006 added special funding and operational rules generally applicable to plan years beginning after 2007 for multi-employer plans that are classified as endangered, seriously endangered, or critical status. plans in these classifications must adopt measures to improve their funded status through a funding improvement or rehabilitation plan, which may require additional contributions from employers (which may take the form of a surcharge on benefit contributions) and/or modifications to retiree benefits. a number of multi-employer plans to which we contribute or may contribute in the future are in endangered, seriously endangered or critical status. the amount of additional funds we may be obligated to contribute to these plans in the future cannot be estimated, as such amounts will likely be based on future work that requires the specific use of union employees covered by these plans, and the amount of that future work and the number of employees that may be affected cannot reasonably be estimated. our performance of a significant amount of future services in areas that require us to utilize unionized employees covered by these affected plans, or a deterioration in the funding status of any of the plans to which our operating units contribute, could require significant additional contributions, which could detrimentally affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows if we are not able to adequately mitigate these costs. our unionized workforce and related obligations could adversely affect our operations. as of december 31, 2014, approximately 52% of our hourly employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. although the majority of the collective bargaining agreements prohibit strikes and work stoppages, certain of our unionized employees participated in a strike and work stoppage during january 2012, and we cannot be certain that strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the future. strikes or work stoppages can adversely impact our relationships with our customers and could cause us to lose business and decrease our revenue. 26 table of contents our ability to complete future acquisitions could be adversely affected because of our union status for a variety of reasons. for instance, our union agreements may be incompatible with the union agreements of a business we want to acquire, and some businesses may not want to become affiliated with a union-based company. additionally, we may increase our exposure to withdrawal liabilities for underfunded multi-employer pension plans to which an acquired company contributes. approximately 48% of our hourly employees are not unionized. under the current u.s. presidential administration, certain administrative and regulatory actions have been taken and are being considered that could create more flexibility and opportunity for labor unions to organize non-union workers and could result in a greater percentage of our workforce being subject to collective bargaining agreements, heightening the risks described above. in addition, certain of our customers require or prefer a non-union workforce, and they may reduce the amount of work assigned to us if our non-union labor crews were to become unionized, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial or reputational impacts relating to occupational health and safety matters. our operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace. while we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources in our occupational health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operational risk and there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant liability exposure. although we have taken what we believe are appropriate precautions, we have suffered fatalities in the past and may suffer additional fatalities in the future. serious accidents, including fatalities, may subject us to substantial penalties, civil litigation or criminal prosecution. claims for damages to persons, including claims for bodily injury or loss of life, could result in substantial costs and liabilities, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, if our safety record were to substantially deteriorate over time or we were to suffer substantial penalties or criminal prosecution for violation of health and safety regulations, our customers could cancel our contracts and elect to procure future services from other providers. unsafe work sites also have the potential to increase employee turnover, increase the cost of a project to our clients, and raise our operating costs. any of the foregoing could result in financial loss, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks associated with operating in international markets could restrict our ability to expand globally and harm our business and prospects. although international operations are presently conducted primarily in canada and australia, we have performed work in various other foreign countries and expect that the number of countries in which we operate could expand significantly over the next few years. economic conditions, including those resulting from wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts or volatility in the global markets, may adversely affect our customers, their demand for our services and their ability to pay for our services. in addition, our international operations include business and transactions for which we are paid in local currency. payments to us in currencies other than the u.s. dollar may exceed our local currency needs, leading to the accumulation of excess local currency, which, in certain instances, may be subject to either temporary blocking, costly taxes or tariffs, or other difficulties converting to u.s. dollars. there are numerous risks inherent in conducting our business internationally, including, but not limited to, potential instability in international markets, changes in regulatory requirements applicable to international operations, currency fluctuations in foreign countries, political, economic and social conditions in foreign countries and complex u.s. and foreign laws and treaties, including tax laws. these risks could restrict our ability to provide services to international customers, operate our international business profitably, or fund our strategic objectives, and our overall business, liquidity and results of operations could be negatively impacted by our foreign activities. 27 table of contents we could be adversely affected by our failure to comply with the laws applicable to our foreign activities, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and other similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions prohibit u.s.-based companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. we pursue opportunities in certain parts of the world that experience government corruption, and in certain circumstances, compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. our policies mandate compliance with all applicable anti-bribery laws. further, we require our partners, subcontractors, agents and others who work for us or on our behalf to comply with the fcpa and other anti-bribery laws. although we have policies and procedures designed to ensure that we, our employees, our agents and others who work with us in foreign countries comply with the fcpa and other anti-bribery laws, there is no assurance that such policies or procedures will protect us against liability under the fcpa or other laws for actions taken by our agents, employees and intermediaries. on march 10, 2014, the sec notified us of an inquiry into certain aspects of our activities in certain foreign jurisdictions and requested that we take necessary steps to preserve and retain categories of relevant documents, including those pertaining to our fcpa compliance program. the sec has not alleged any violations of law by quanta or our employees. if we are found to be liable for fcpa violations (either due to our own acts or inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer from severe criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. in addition, detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged fcpa violations is expensive and could consume significant time and attention of our senior management. our participation in joint ventures exposes us to liability and/or harm to our reputation for failures of our partners. as part of our business, we have entered into joint venture arrangements and may enter into additional joint venture arrangements in the future. the purpose of these joint ventures is typically to combine skills and resources to allow for the performance of particular projects. success on these jointly performed projects depends in large part on whether our joint venture partners satisfy their contractual obligations. we and our joint venture partners are generally jointly and severally liable for all liabilities and obligations of our joint ventures. if a joint venture partner fails to perform or is financially unable to bear its portion of required capital contributions or other obligations, including liabilities stemming from claims or lawsuits, we could be required to make additional investments, provide additional services or pay more than our proportionate share of a liability to make up for our partner shortfall. further, if we are unable to adequately address our partner performance issues, the customer may terminate the project, which could result in legal liability to us, harm our reputation and reduce our profit on a project. we are in the process of implementing an information technology (it) solution, which could temporarily disrupt day-to-day operations at certain operating units. we continue to implement a comprehensive it solution that we believe will allow for the interface between functions such as accounting and finance, human resources, operations, and fleet management. continued development and implementation of the it solution will require substantial financial and personnel resources. while the it solution is intended to improve and enhance our information systems, implementation of new information systems at each operating unit exposes us to the risks of start-up of the new system and integration of that system with our existing systems and processes, including possible disruption of our financial reporting. there is no guarantee that we will realize economic or other intended benefits from continued development and implementation of the it solution. additionally, the it solution may not be developed or implemented as timely or as accurately as planned. failure to properly implement the it solution could result in substantial disruptions to our business, including coordinating and processing our normal business activities, testing and recording of certain data necessary to provide oversight over our disclosure controls and procedures and effective internal controls over our financial reporting, and other unforeseen problems. 28 table of contents failure to adequately protect critical data and technology systems could materially affect our operations. it solution failures, network disruptions and breaches of data security could disrupt our operations by causing, among other things, delays in the processing of transactions or the reporting of financial results or the unintentional disclosure of customer, employee or company information that could damage our reputation. while management has taken steps to address these concerns by implementing network security and internal control measures, there can be no assurance that a system failure or data security breach (particularly in light of our ongoing implementation of the it solution) will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our dependence on suppliers, subcontractors and equipment manufacturers could expose us to the risk of loss in our operations. on certain projects, we rely on suppliers to obtain the necessary materials and subcontractors to perform portions of our services. we also rely on equipment manufacturers to provide us with the equipment required to conduct our operations. although we are not dependent on any single supplier, subcontractor or equipment manufacturer, any substantial limitation on the availability of required suppliers, subcontractors or equipment manufacturers could negatively impact our operations. the risk of a lack of available suppliers, subcontractors or equipment manufacturers may be heightened as a result of market and economic conditions. to the extent we cannot engage subcontractors or acquire equipment or materials, we could experience losses in the performance of our operations. additionally, successful completion of our contracts may depend on whether our subcontractors successfully fulfill their contractual obligations. if our subcontractors fail to perform their contractual obligations as a result of financial or other difficulties, or if our subcontractors fail to meet the expected completion dates or quality standards, we may be required to incur additional costs or provide additional services in order to make up such shortfall. we may not have access in the future to sufficient funding to finance desired growth and operations. if we cannot secure future funds or financing on acceptable terms, we may be unable to support our growth strategy or future operations. we cannot readily predict the ability of certain customers to pay for past services, and unfavorable economic conditions, such as those experienced over recent years, may negatively impact the ability of our customers to pay amounts owed to us. we may also use cash for acquisitions, as well as for investments, both of which are elements of our growth strategy, but we cannot readily predict the timing, size and success of our acquisition or investment efforts. using cash for acquisitions and investments limits our financial flexibility and may increase our need to seek additional capital through future debt or equity financings. our credit agreement contains significant restrictions on our operational and financial flexibility, including our ability to incur additional debt or conduct certain types of preferred equity financings, and if we seek more debt, we may have to agree to additional covenants that limit our operational and financial flexibility. if we seek additional debt or equity financings, we cannot be certain that additional debt or equity will be available to us on terms acceptable to us or at all. furthermore, availability under our credit facility is based upon existing commitments from several banks. banks are restrictive in their lending practices, and some may be unable or unwilling to fund their commitments, which may limit our access to the capital needed to fund our growth and operations. in addition, we rely on financing companies to fund the leasing of certain of our trucks and trailers, support vehicles and specialty construction equipment. credit market conditions may cause certain of these financing companies to restrict or withhold access to capital for us to fund the leasing of additional equipment. although we are not dependent on any single equipment lessor, a widespread lack of available capital to fund the leasing of equipment could negatively impact our future operations. additionally, the market price of our common stock may change significantly in response to various factors and events beyond our control, which will impact our ability to use equity to obtain funds. a variety of events may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly, including overall market conditions or volatility, a shortfall in our operating results from those anticipated, negative results or other unfavorable information relating to our market peers or the other risks described in this annual report on form 10-k. 29 table of contents fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates may have a greater impact on our financial results as we expand into international markets. for the year ended december 31, 2014, we derived $1.89 billion, or 24.0%, of our consolidated revenues from foreign operations, the substantial majority of which was earned in canada and australia. we intend to expand the volume of services that we provide internationally. as a result, our reported financial condition and results of operations may be further exposed to the effects that fluctuating exchange rates have on the process of translating the financial statements of our international operations, which are usually denominated in local currencies, into the u.s. dollar. our business growth could outpace the capability of our decentralized management infrastructure. we cannot be certain that our management infrastructure will be adequate to support our operations as they expand. for example, the ability to internally communicate, coordinate and execute business strategies, plans and tactics may be negatively impacted by our increasing size and complexity. a decentralized structure places significant control and decision-making powers in the hands of local management. this contributes to the risk that we may be slower or less able to identify or react to problems affecting key business matters than we would in a more centralized environment. the lack of timely access to information may impact the quality of decision making by management. our decentralized organization creates the possibility that our operating subsidiaries assume excessive risk without appropriate guidance from our centralized legal, accounting, tax, treasury and insurance functions as to the potential overall impact. future growth could also impose significant additional responsibilities on members of our senior management, including the need to recruit and integrate new senior level managers and executives. we cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain such additional managers and executives. to the extent that we are unable to manage our growth effectively, or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified management, we may not be able to expand our operations or execute our business plan. we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects if we are not able to obtain surety bonds, letters of credit or bank guarantees. a portion of our business depends on our ability to provide surety bonds, letters of credit, bank guarantees or other financial assurances. current or future market conditions, including losses incurred in the construction industry or as a result of large corporate bankruptcies, as well as changes in our sureties assessment of our operating and financial risk, could cause our surety providers and lenders to decline to issue or renew, or substantially reduce the amount of, bid or performance bonds for our work and could increase our costs associated with collateral. these actions could be taken on short notice. if our surety providers or lenders were to limit or eliminate our access to bonding, letters of credit or guarantees, our alternatives would include seeking capacity from other sureties and lenders, finding more business that does not require bonds or allows for other forms of collateral for project performance, such as cash. we may be unable to secure these alternatives in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all, which could affect our ability to bid for or work on future projects requiring financial assurances. we have also granted security interests in various of our assets to collateralize our obligations to our sureties and lenders. furthermore, under standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue or continue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing or renewing any bonds. if we were to experience an interruption or reduction in the availability of bonding capacity as a result of these or any other reasons, we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects that would require bonding. our failure to comply with environmental laws could result in significant liabilities. our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including those dealing with the handling and disposal of waste products, pcbs, fuel storage and air quality. we perform work in many different 30 table of contents types of underground environments. if the field location maps supplied to us are not accurate, or if objects are present in the soil that are not indicated on the field location maps, our underground work could strike objects in the soil, some of which may contain pollutants. these objects may also rupture, resulting in the discharge of pollutants. in such circumstances, we may be liable for fines and damages, and we may be unable to obtain reimbursement from the parties providing the incorrect information. we perform work in and around environmentally sensitive areas such as rivers, lakes and wetlands. in addition, we perform directional drilling operations below certain environmentally sensitive terrains and water bodies. due to the inconsistent nature of the terrain and water bodies, it is possible that such directional drilling may cause a surface fracture, resulting in the release of subsurface materials. these subsurface materials may contain contaminants in excess of amounts permitted by law, potentially exposing us to remediation costs and fines. we also own and lease several facilities at which we store our equipment. some of these facilities contain fuel storage tanks that are above or below ground. if these tanks were to leak, we could be responsible for the cost of remediation as well as potential fines. in addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or leaks, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur significant costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in certain instances, we have obtained indemnification or covenants from third parties (including predecessors or lessors) for such clean-up and other obligations and liabilities that we believe are adequate to cover such obligations and liabilities. however, such third-party indemnities or covenants may not cover all of our costs and the indemnitors may not pay amounts owed to us, and such unanticipated obligations or liabilities, or future obligations and liabilities, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. further, we cannot be certain that we will be able to identify or be indemnified for all potential environmental liabilities relating to any acquired business. there are also other legislative and regulatory proposals to address greenhouse gas emissions. these proposals, if enacted, could result in a variety of regulatory programs including potential new regulations, additional charges to fund energy efficiency activities, or other regulatory actions. any of these actions could result in increased costs associated with our operations and impact the prices we charge our customers. for example, if new regulations are adopted regulating greenhouse gas emissions from mobile sources such as cars and trucks, we could experience a significant increase in environmental compliance costs in light of our large rolling-stock fleet. in addition, if our operations are perceived to result in high greenhouse gas emissions, our reputation could suffer. we may not be successful in continuing to meet the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 has many requirements applicable to us regarding corporate governance and financial reporting, including the requirements for management to report on our internal controls over financial reporting and for our independent registered public accounting firm to express an opinion over the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. during 2014, we continued actions to ensure our ability to comply with these requirements. as of december 31, 2014, our internal control over financial reporting was effective; however, there can be no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in future years. failure to maintain effective internal controls or the identification of significant internal control deficiencies in acquisitions already made or made in the future could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock and our other publicly traded securities, the reduced ability to obtain financing, the loss of customers, penalties and additional expenditures to meet the requirements. our sale or issuance of additional common shares or other equity-related securities could dilute each stockholder ownership interest or adversely affect the market price of our common stock. we grow our business organically as well as through acquisitions. we often fund a portion of the consideration paid in connection with our acquisitions with the issuance of additional equity securities, including shares of our common stock and securities that are convertible into shares of our common stock. 31 table of contents we may issue additional equity securities in the future, including in connection with future acquisitions or other issuances of our common stock or convertible securities or otherwise. our restated certificate of incorporation provides that we may issue up to 600,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 210,819,790 shares were outstanding as of december 31, 2014. any such issuances could have the effect of diluting our earnings per share as well as our existing stockholders individual ownership percentages and could lead to volatility in the market price of our common stock. we cannot predict the effect that future issuances of our common stock or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of our common stock. if we are unable to enforce our intellectual property rights or if our intellectual property rights become obsolete, our competitive position could be adversely impacted. we utilize a variety of intellectual property rights in our services. we view our portfolio of proprietary energized services tools and techniques, as well as our other process and design technologies, as one of our competitive strengths, which we believe differentiates our service offerings. we may not be able to successfully preserve these intellectual property rights in the future, and these rights could be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries in which our services may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. we also license certain technologies from third parties, and there is a risk that our relationships with licensors may terminate or expire or may be interrupted or harmed. if we are unable to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights, or if intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings succeed against us, our ability to differentiate our service offerings could be reduced. in addition, if our intellectual property rights or work processes become obsolete, we may not be able to differentiate our service offerings, and some of our competitors may be able to offer more attractive services to our customers. as a result, our business and revenue could be materially and adversely affected. we may incur additional healthcare costs arising from federal healthcare reform legislation. in march 2010, the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (the aca) were signed into law in the united states. the aca is intended to expand access to health insurance coverage to many uninsured individuals and expands coverage to those already insured. the changes and mandates on employers subject to the aca pay or play requirements could cause us to incur additional group health insurance costs, although we do not expect any material short-term impact on our financial results as a result of the aca. we continue to monitor developments under the aca and assess the extent to which it could result in long-term material cost increases for us. opportunities within the government arena could subject us to increased governmental regulation and costs. most government contracts are awarded through a regulated competitive bidding process. as we pursue increased opportunities in the government arena, management focus associated with the start-up and bidding process may be diverted away from other opportunities. involvement with government contracts could require a significant amount of costs to be incurred before any revenues are realized from these contracts. in addition, as a government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and other public sector regulations, any deemed violation of which could lead to fines or penalties or a loss of business. government agencies routinely audit and investigate government contractors. government agencies may review a contractor performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. if a government agency determines that costs were improperly allocated to specific contracts, such costs will not be reimbursed or a refund of previously reimbursed costs may be required. if a government agency alleges or proves improper activity, civil and criminal penalties could be imposed and serious reputational harm could result. many government contracts must be appropriated each year. if appropriations are not made in subsequent years, we would not realize all of the potential revenues from any awarded contracts. 32 table of contents certain provisions of our corporate governing documents could make an acquisition of our company more difficult. the following provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as currently in effect, as well as delaware law, could discourage potential proposals to acquire us, delay or prevent a change in control of us or limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock: our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to issue blank check preferred stock and to adopt amendments to our bylaws; our bylaws contain restrictions regarding the right of stockholders to nominate directors and to submit proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings; our certificate of incorporation and bylaws restrict the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to act by written consent; and we are subject to provisions of delaware law which restrict us from engaging in any of a broad range of business transactions with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date such stockholder became classified as an interested stockholder. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 80 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary exposure to market risk relates to unfavorable changes in concentration of credit risk, interest rates and currency exchange rates. credit risk. we are subject to concentrations of credit risk related to our cash and cash equivalents and our accounts receivable, including amounts related to unbilled accounts receivable and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts. substantially all of our cash investments are managed by what we believe to be high credit quality financial institutions. in accordance with our investment policies, these institutions are authorized to invest this cash in a diversified portfolio of what we believe to be high-quality investments, which primarily include interest-bearing demand deposits and money market mutual funds with original maturities of three months or less. although we do not currently believe the principal amounts of these investments are subject to any material risk of loss, changes in economic conditions could impact the interest income we receive from these investments. in addition, as we grant credit under normal payment terms, generally without collateral, we are subject to potential credit risk related to our customers ability to pay for services provided. this risk may be heightened as a result of the depressed economic and financial market conditions that have existed in recent years. however, we believe the concentration of credit risk related to trade accounts receivable and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts is limited because of the diversity of our customers. we perform ongoing credit risk assessments of our customers and financial institutions and in some cases we obtain collateral or other security from our customers. interest rate risk. as of december 31, 2014, we had no derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate risk. as such, we were exposed to earnings and fair value risk due to changes in interest rates with respect to our long-term obligations. as of december 31, 2014, the fair value of our variable rate debt of $68.8 million approximated book value. our weighted average interest rate for the year ended december 31, 2014 was 2.71%. the effect on our pretax earnings of a hypothetical 50 basis point increase or decrease in variable interest rates would be negligible. foreign currency risk. we conduct operations primarily in the united states, canada and australia, and our financial performance is subject to fluctuation due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. we are subject to foreign currency risk with respect to sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies of our operating units. to minimize the risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we may enter into foreign currency derivative contracts to hedge our currency risk on a cash flow basis. there were no outstanding foreign currency derivative contracts at december 31, 2014. 80 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors and item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for additional information and discussion regarding the impact of currency rate fluctuations. customers, strategic alliances and preferred provider relationships our customers include electric power and oil and gas companies, as well as commercial, industrial and governmental entities. we have a large and diverse customer base, including many of the leading companies in 4 table of contents the industries we serve. our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 36% of our consolidated revenues during the year ended december 31, 2015. our largest customer accounted for approximately 8% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended december 31, 2015. although we have a centralized marketing and business development strategy, management at each of our operating units is responsible for developing and maintaining successful long-term relationships with customers. our operating unit management teams build upon existing customer relationships to secure additional projects and increase revenues from our current customer base. many of these customer relationships originated decades ago and are maintained through a partnering approach with account management that includes project evaluation and consulting, quality performance, performance measurement and direct customer contact. additionally, operating unit management focuses on pursuing growth opportunities with prospective new customers. we encourage operating unit management to cross-sell services of our other operating units to their customers and to coordinate with our other operating units to pursue projects, especially those that are larger and more complicated. our business development group supports the operating units activities by promoting and marketing our services for existing and prospective large national accounts, as well as projects that would require services from multiple operating units. we are a preferred vendor for many of our customers. as a preferred vendor, we have met minimum standards for a specific category of service, maintained a high level of performance and agreed to certain payment terms and negotiated rates. we strive to maintain preferred vendor status as we believe it provides us an advantage in the award of future work for the applicable customer. many of our strategic relationships with customers take the form of strategic alliance or long-term maintenance agreements. strategic alliance agreements generally state an intention to work together over a period of time and/or on specific types of projects, and many provide us with preferential bidding procedures. strategic alliances and long-term maintenance agreements are typically agreements for an initial term of approximately two to four years and may include renewal options to extend the initial term. backlog backlog is not a term recognized under united states generally accepted accounting principles (us gaap); however, it is a common measurement used in our industry. our methodology for determining backlog may not be comparable to the methodologies used by other companies. our backlog represents the amount of consolidated revenues that we expect to realize from future work under construction contracts, long-term maintenance contracts and master service agreements (msas). these estimates include revenues from the remaining portion of firm orders not yet completed and on which work has not yet begun, as well as revenues from change orders, renewal options, and funded and unfunded portions of government contracts to the extent that they are reasonably expected to occur. for purposes of calculating backlog, we include 100% of estimated revenues attributable to consolidated joint ventures and variable interest entities (vies). the following table presents our total backlog by reportable segment as of december 31, 2015 and 2014, along with an estimate of the backlog amounts expected to be realized within 12 months of each balance sheet date (in thousands): backlog as of december 31, 2015 backlog as of december 31, 2014 12 month total 12 month total electric power infrastructure services $ 3,307,837 $ 6,312,947 $ 3,395,094 $ 6,715,593 oil and gas infrastructure services 1,900,845 3,073,950 1,824,610 2,520,635 total $ 5,208,682 $ 9,386,897 $ 5,219,704 $ 9,236,228 5 table of contents revenue estimates included in our backlog can be subject to change as a result of project accelerations, cancellations or delays due to various factors, including but not limited to commercial issues, regulatory requirements and adverse weather. these factors can also cause revenue amounts to be realized in periods and at levels different than originally projected. generally, our customers are not contractually committed to specific volumes of services under our msas, and most of our contracts may be terminated, typically upon 30 to 90 days notice, even if we are not in default under the contract. we determine the estimated amount of backlog for work under msas by using recurring historical trends inherent in current msas, factoring in seasonal demand and projected customer needs based upon ongoing communications with the customer. in addition, many of our msas are subject to renewal options. as of december 31, 2015 and 2014, msas accounted for approximately 45% and 39% of our estimated 12 month backlog and approximately 50% and 47% of total backlog. there can be no assurance as to our customers actual requirements or that our estimates are accurate. competition the markets in which we operate are highly competitive. we compete with other contractors in most of the geographic markets in which we operate, and several of our competitors are large companies that have significant financial, technical and marketing resources. in addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry into some of the industries in which we operate and, as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become a competitor. a significant portion of our revenues is currently derived from unit price or fixed price agreements, and price is often an important factor in the award of such agreements. accordingly, we could be underbid by our competitors in an effort by them to procure such business. we believe that as demand for our services increases, customers often consider other factors in choosing a service provider, including technical expertise and experience, financial and operational resources, nationwide presence, industry reputation and dependability, which we expect to benefit larger contractors such as us. in addition, competition may lessen as industry resources, such as labor supplies, approach capacity. there can be no assurance, however, that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services, or that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position. we also face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers, including electric power, oil and gas and engineering companies, which employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services as those provided by us. although a significant portion of these services is currently outsourced by many of our customers, in particular services relating to larger energy transmission infrastructure projects, there can be no assurance that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource these services in the future. employees as of december 31, 2015, we had approximately 24,500 employees, consisting of approximately 4,200 salaried employees, including executive officers, professional and administrative staff, project managers and engineers, job superintendents and clerical personnel, and approximately 20,300 hourly employees, the number of which fluctuates depending upon the number and size of the projects that are ongoing and planned at any particular time. approximately 55% of our hourly employees at december 31, 2015 were covered by collective bargaining agreements, which require the payment of specified wages to our union employees, the observance of certain workplace rules and the payment of certain amounts to multiemployer pension plans and employee benefit trusts rather than us sponsoring or administering the benefit programs provided on behalf of our employees. these collective bargaining agreements have varying terms and expiration dates. the majority of the collective bargaining agreements contain provisions that prohibit work stoppages or strikes, even during specified negotiation periods relating to agreement renewals, and provide for binding arbitration dispute resolution in the event of prolonged disagreement. we provide health, welfare and benefit plans for employees who are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. we also have a 401(k) plan pursuant to which eligible employees who are not provided retirement 6 table of contents benefits through a collective bargaining agreement may make contributions through a payroll deduction. we make matching cash contributions of 100% of each employee contribution up to 3% of that employee salary and 50% of each employee contribution between 3% and 6% of such employee salary, up to the maximum amount permitted by law. our industry is experiencing a shortage of journeyman linemen in certain geographic areas. in response to the shortage and to attract qualified employees, we utilize various international brotherhood of electrical workers (ibew) and national electrical contractors association (neca) training programs and support the joint ibew/neca apprenticeship program which trains qualified electrical workers. certain of our canadian operations also support the canadian union skilled workers (cusw) apprenticeship programs for training construction and maintenance electricians and powerline technicians. we have also established apprenticeship training programs approved by the u.s. department of labor for employees not subject to the ibew/neca apprenticeship program, as well as additional company-wide and project-specific employee training and educational programs. we believe our relationships with our employees and union representatives are good. materials our customers typically supply most or all of the materials required for each job. however, for some of our contracts, we may procure all or part of the materials required. as we continue to expand our comprehensive engineering, procurement and construction offerings, particularly associated with utility scale solar projects, the cost of materials may become a proportionately larger component of our consolidated cost of services. we purchase such materials from a variety of sources and do not anticipate experiencing any significant difficulties in procuring such materials. training, quality assurance and safety performance of our services requires the use of equipment and exposure to hazardous conditions. although we are committed to a policy of operating safely and prudently, we have been and will continue to be subject to claims by employees, customers and third parties for property damage and personal injury. our operating units have established safety programs, policies and procedures requiring that employees complete prescribed training and service programs prior to starting work. our operating units performing more sophisticated and technical jobs utilize, when applicable, training programs provided by the ibew/neca apprenticeship program, the training programs sponsored by the four trade unions administered by the pipe line contractors association (plca), the apprenticeship training programs sponsored by the cusw or our equivalent programs. under the ibew/neca apprenticeship program, all journeyman linemen are required to complete a minimum of 7,000 hours of on-the-job training, approximately 144 hours of classroom education and extensive testing and certification. certain of our operating units have established apprenticeship training programs approved by the u.s. department of labor that prescribe equivalent training requirements for employees who are not otherwise subject to the requirements of the ibew/neca apprenticeship program. similarly, the cusw offers apprenticeship training for construction and maintenance electricians that requires five terms of 1,700 hours each, combining classroom and on-the-job training, as well as training for powerline technicians that also involves classroom and jobsite training over a four-year period. in addition, the laborers international union of north america, the international brotherhood of teamsters, the united association of plumbers and pipefitters and the international union of operating engineers have training programs specifically designed for developing and improving the skills of their members who work in the pipeline construction industry. our operating units also share best practices for training and educational programs and safety policies. additionally, we have implemented two enterprise-wide programs, an automated external defibrillator (aed) program, which provides aeds to all of our crews, and a flame resistant personal protection equipment (fr) program, which provides fire resistant clothing to employees that are potentially exposed to flames or 7 table of contents electrical arcs. during 2015, we also completed a training facility that includes electric power and pipeline infrastructure, which will help facilitate classroom and on-the-job training programs and allow us to train employees in a controlled environment without the challenges of limited structure access and live utility constraints. regulation our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws and regulations including: licensing, permitting and inspection requirements applicable to contractors, electricians and engineers; regulations relating to worker safety and environmental protection; permitting and inspection requirements applicable to construction projects; wage and hour regulations; regulations relating to transportation of equipment and materials, including licensing and permitting requirements; building and electrical codes; and special bidding, procurement and other requirements on government projects. we believe that we have all the licenses required to conduct our operations and that we are in substantial compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating licenses, as well as give rise to termination or cancellation rights under our contracts or disqualify us from future bidding opportunities. environmental matters and climate change impacts we are committed to the protection of the environment and train our employees to perform their duties accordingly. we are subject to numerous federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations governing our operations, including the handling, transportation and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous substances and wastes, as well as emissions and discharges into the environment, including discharges to air, surface water, groundwater and soil. we also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and cleanup responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. under certain of these laws and regulations, liability can be imposed for cleanup of previously owned or operated properties or currently owned properties at which hazardous substances or wastes were discharged or disposed of by a former owner or operator, regardless of whether we directly caused the contamination or violated any law at the time of discharge or disposal. the presence of contamination from such substances or wastes could also interfere with ongoing operations or adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property or use the property as collateral for financing. in addition, we could be held liable for significant penalties and damages under certain environmental laws and regulations or be subject to a revocation of certain licenses or permits, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. our contracts with customers may also impose liability on us for environmental issues that arise through the performance of our services. from time to time, we may incur costs and obligations for correcting environmental noncompliance matters and for remediation at or relating to certain of our properties. we believe that we are in substantial compliance with our environmental obligations and that any such obligations will not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial performance. the potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain. climate change may result in, among other things, changes in rainfall patterns, storm patterns and intensity and temperature levels. as discussed elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k, including in item 1a. risk factors , our operating results are significantly influenced by weather. therefore, significant changes in historical weather 8 table of contents patterns could significantly impact our future operating results. for example, if climate change results in drier weather and more accommodating temperatures over a greater period of time in a given period, we may be able to increase our productivity, which could have a positive impact on our revenues and gross margins. in addition, if climate change results in an increase in severe weather, such as hurricanes and ice storms, we could experience a greater amount of higher margin emergency restoration service work, which generally has a positive impact on our gross margins. conversely, if climate change results in a greater amount of rainfall, snow, ice or other less accommodating weather conditions in a given period, we could experience reduced productivity, which could negatively impact our revenues and gross margins. risk management and insurance we are insured for employer liability, general liability, auto liability and workers compensation claims. under these programs, the deductibles for general liability and auto liability are $10.0 million per occurrence, the deductible for workers compensation is $5.0 million per occurrence, and the deductible for employer liability is $1.0 million per occurrence. we are generally self-insured for all claims that do not exceed the amount of the applicable deductible. in connection with our casualty insurance programs, we are required to issue letters of credit to secure our self-insured obligations. we also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $375,000 per claimant per year. losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimate of the ultimate liability for claims reported and our estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. these insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the number of incidents not reported. the accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals are adequate. we renew our insurance policies on an annual basis, and therefore deductibles and levels of insurance coverage may change in future periods. in addition, insurers may cancel our coverage or determine to exclude certain items from coverage, or we may elect not to obtain certain types or incremental levels of insurance if we believe that the cost to obtain such coverage exceeds the additional benefits obtained. in any such event, our overall risk exposure would increase, which could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. seasonality and cyclicality our revenues and results of operations can be subject to seasonal and other variations. these variations are influenced by weather, customer spending patterns, bidding seasons, receipt of required regulatory approvals, permits and rights of way, project timing and schedules, and holidays. please read the section entitled seasonality; fluctuations of results; economic conditions included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . website access and other information our website address is www.quantaservices.com . interested parties may obtain free electronic copies of our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to these reports through our website under the heading investors &amp; media/sec filings or through the website of the securities and exchange commission (the sec) at www.sec.gov . these reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the sec. in addition, our corporate governance guidelines, code of ethics and business conduct and the charters of each of our audit committee, compensation committee, governance and nominating committee and investment committee are posted on our website under the heading investors &amp; media/corporate governance . 9 table of contents we intend to disclose on our website any amendments or waivers to our code of ethics and business conduct that are required to be disclosed pursuant to item 5.05 of form 8-k. free copies of these items may be obtained from our website. we will make available to any stockholder, without charge, copies of our annual report on form 10-k as filed with the sec. for copies of this or any other quanta publication, stockholders may submit a request in writing to quanta services, inc., attn: corporate secretary, 2800 post oak blvd., suite 2600, houston, tx 77056, or by phone at 713-629-7600. investors and others should note that we announce material financial information and make other public disclosures of information regarding quanta through sec filings, press releases, public conference calls, and our website. we also utilize social media to communicate this information, and it is possible that the information we post on social media could be deemed material. accordingly, we encourage investors, the media and others interested in our company to follow quanta, and review the information we post, on the social media channels listed on our website in the investors &amp; media section. this annual report on form 10-k, our website and our social media channels contain information provided by other sources that we believe are reliable. we cannot provide assurance that the information obtained from other sources is accurate or complete. no information on our website or our social media channels is incorporated by reference herein. i tem 1a. risk factors our business is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described below. the matters described below are not the only risks and uncertainties facing our company. additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below also may impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively affected, and we may not be able to achieve our goals or expectations. this annual report on form 10-k also includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended as forward-looking statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and should be read in conjunction with the section entitled uncertainty of forward-looking statements and information included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. our business can be highly cyclical and subject to seasonal and other variations that can result in significant differences in operating results from quarter to quarter. for example, we typically experience lower gross and operating margins during winter months due to lower demand for our services and more difficult operating conditions in the northern hemisphere. additionally, our quarterly results may be materially and/or adversely affected by: the timing and volume of work we perform; permitting, regulatory or customer-caused delays on projects; adverse weather conditions; variations in the size, scope and margins of projects we perform and the mix of our customers, contracts and business during any particular quarter; fluctuations in regional, national or global economic and market conditions and demand for our services; pricing pressures resulting from competition; the budgetary spending patterns of customers and federal, state and local governments; disruptions in our customers strategic plans which could occur as a result of emerging technologies; 10 table of contents increases in construction and design costs; the magnitude of work performed under change orders and the timing of their recognition; disputes with customers relating to payment terms under our contracts and change orders, and our ability to successfully negotiate and obtain payment or reimbursement under our contracts and change orders; the outcome or resolution of pending or threatened litigation, claims or other legal proceedings; liabilities associated with multiemployer pension plans in which our employees participate or withdrawals therefrom; significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in accounting pronouncements that require us to account for items differently than historical pronouncements have; losses experienced in our operations not otherwise covered by insurance; payment risk associated with the financial condition of our customers, including those customers affected by the volatility of natural gas and oil prices; the termination or expiration of existing agreements; changes in bonding and lien requirements applicable to existing and new agreements; implementation of various information systems, which could temporarily disrupt day-to-day operations; the recognition of tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions; the timing and magnitude of costs we incur to support growth internally or through acquisitions or otherwise; the timing and integration of acquisitions and the magnitude of the related acquisition and integration costs; and the timing and significance of potential additional impairments of long-lived assets, equity or other investments, goodwill or other intangible assets. accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other quarter or for the entire year. negative economic and market conditions, including continued low oil and natural gas prices, may adversely impact our customers future spending as well as payment for our services and, as a result, our operations and growth. stagnant or declining economic conditions have adversely impacted the demand for our services in the past and resulted in the delay, reduction or cancellation of certain projects and may adversely affect us in the future. in addition, economic and market conditions specifically affecting any of the industries we serve could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a number of factors, including financing conditions and potential bankruptcies in the industries we serve or a prolonged economic downturn or recession, could adversely affect our customers and their ability or willingness to fund capital expenditures in the future or pay for past services. consolidation, competition, capital constraints or negative economic conditions in the electric power and oil and gas industries may also result in reduced spending by, or the loss of, one or more of our customers. our oil and gas infrastructure services segment is exposed to risks associated with the oil and gas industry. these risks, which are not subject to our control, include the volatility of natural gas and oil prices, the lack of 11 table of contents demand for natural gas and oil, including from power generation from natural gas, and a slowdown in the development or discovery of natural gas and/or oil reserves. specifically, lower natural gas and oil prices have resulted in and could continue to result in decreased spending by some of our customers in our oil and gas infrastructure services segment. the increase in the global supply of oil and the significant increase in the north american supply of natural gas and oil due to ongoing development of unconventional shale formations has resulted in significant declines in natural gas and oil prices. exploration and production companies, as well as some midstream companies, have significantly reduced capital spending and are expected to continue to operate with reduced budgets for the foreseeable future. a sustained period of lower prices, or the perceived risk of a sustained period of lower prices, may further reduce spending on exploration and production. as a result, our customers may also reduce capital spending on mainline pipe, gas gathering and compressor systems and other related infrastructure in the future, resulting in less demand for our services. if the profitability of our oil and gas infrastructure services segment were to continue to decline, our overall financial position, results of operations and cash flows could also be adversely affected. additionally, if further declines in natural gas and oil prices further reduce investment in the development of resource plays and meaningfully reduce oil and natural gas production, our electric power infrastructure services segment could be negatively impacted. for example, the low price of oil has had an adverse impact on the canadian economy, which has impacted demand for some of our electric power services in canada. further, many of our customers finance their projects through the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. during depressed markets, such as the one facing the oil and natural gas industry currently, our customers may be unable to access capital markets or otherwise obtain financing for budgeted capital expenditures. a reduction in cash flow or the lack of availability of debt or equity financing for our customers could result in a reduction in our customers spending for our services and may also impact the ability of our customers to pay amounts owed to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and our ability to grow. regulatory and environmental requirements affecting any of the industries we serve may lead to less demand for our services. because the vast majority of our revenue is derived from a few industries, the regulatory and environmental requirements affecting those industries have a material effect on our business, and increased regulatory and environmental requirements in those industries could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. customers in the industries we serve also face heightened regulatory and environmental requirements and stringent permitting processes that impact their projects, which can result in delays, reductions and cancellations of some of their projects. these regulatory factors have resulted in decreased demand for our services in the past, and they may continue to do so in the future, potentially impacting our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and our ability to grow. project performance issues, including those caused by third parties, or certain contractual obligations may result in additional costs to us, reductions or delays in revenues or the payment of liquidated damages. many projects involve challenging engineering, permitting, procurement and construction phases that may occur over extended time periods, sometimes over several years. we may encounter difficulties as a result of delays in design, engineering information or materials provided by the customer or a third party, delays or difficulties in equipment and material delivery, schedule changes, delays due to our or our customers failure to timely obtain permits or rights of way or meet other regulatory requirements or permitting conditions, weather-related delays and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, that can negatively impact our ability to complete the project and in accordance with the original delivery schedule. a failure by us to properly manage and invest in our equipment fleet could also negatively impact project performance and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. also, as we expand our scope of services for larger projects, we may face additional performance risks due to the larger and more complex work involved. the bidding processes for larger projects can also be longer and more complex, often taking six to nine months. further, regulatory and permitting delays on larger projects tend to be more challenging and cause more uncertainty as to project timing. 12 table of contents in addition, we contract with third-party suppliers and subcontractors to assist us with the completion of contracts. any delay or failure by suppliers or by subcontractors in the completion of their portion of the project may result in delays in the overall progress of the project or may cause us to incur additional costs, or both. we also may encounter project delays due to local opposition, which may include injunctive actions as well as public protests, to the siting of electric power, natural gas or oil transmission lines, solar or wind projects, or other facilities. delays and additional costs may be substantial and, in some cases, we may be required to compensate the customer for such delays. we may not be able to recover all of such costs. in certain circumstances, we guarantee project completion by a scheduled acceptance date or achievement of certain acceptance and performance testing levels. failure to meet any of our schedules or performance requirements could also result in additional costs or penalties, including liquidated damages, and such amounts could exceed expected project profit. in extreme cases, the above-mentioned factors could cause project cancellations, and we may not be able to replace such projects with similar projects or at all. such delays or cancellations may impact our reputation or relationships with customers, adversely affecting our ability to secure new contracts. our customers may change or delay various elements of a project before or after its commencement, or the design, engineering information, equipment or materials that are to be provided by the customer or other parties may be preliminarily deficient or delivered later than required by the project schedule, resulting in additional direct or indirect costs. under these circumstances, we generally negotiate with the customer with respect to the amount of additional time required and the compensation to be paid to us. we are subject to the risk that we may be unable to obtain, through negotiation, arbitration, litigation or otherwise, adequate amounts to compensate us for the additional work or expenses incurred by us due to the above-mentioned delays and additional costs, including as a result of customer-requested change orders or failure by the customer to timely meet its obligations. litigation or arbitration with respect to payment terms under contracts and change orders is generally lengthy and costly and may adversely affect our relationship with our customers or potential customers, and it is often difficult to predict when and for how much the claims will be resolved. a failure to obtain adequate extensions or compensation for these matters could require us to record a reduction to amounts of revenues and gross profit recognized in prior periods under the percentage-of-completion accounting method. any such adjustments could be substantial. we may also be required to invest significant working capital to fund cost overruns while the resolution of claims is pending, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our business is labor intensive, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees. our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability is limited by our ability to employ, train and retain the necessary skilled personnel. we may not be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy. for instance, we may experience shortages of qualified journeyman linemen, who are integral to the provision of transmission and distribution services under our electric power infrastructure services segment. the commencement of new, large-scale infrastructure projects or increased demand for infrastructure improvements, as well as the aging electric utility workforce, may also further reduce the pool of skilled workers available to us. in addition, in our oil and gas infrastructure services segment, there is limited availability of experienced supervisors and foremen that can oversee large mainline pipe projects. a shortage in the supply of these skilled personnel creates competitive hiring markets and may result in increased labor expenses. additionally, if we are unable to hire employees with the requisite skills, we may also be forced to incur significant training expenses. labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues or profitability. our use of fixed price contracts could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we currently generate some of our revenues under fixed price contracts. we also expect to generate a greater portion of our revenues under this type of contract in the future as larger projects, such as electric power and pipeline transmission build-outs and utility-scale solar facilities, become a more significant aspect of our business. we assume 13 table of contents risks related to revenue, cost and profitability on fixed-priced contracts. actual revenues and project costs can vary, sometimes substantially, from our original projections due to changes in a variety of factors including: unforeseen circumstances not included in our cost estimates or covered by our contract for which we cannot obtain adequate compensation, including concealed or unknown environmental conditions; changes in the cost of equipment, commodities, materials or labor; unanticipated costs or claims due to customer-caused delays, customer failure to provide required materials or equipment, errors in engineering, specifications or designs, project modifications, or contract termination and our inability to obtain reimbursement for such costs or recover on such claims; weather conditions; failure to perform and delays in performance by our project owners, suppliers or subcontractors; delays and additional costs associated with obtaining required permits or approvals; quality issues requiring rework or replacement; changes in laws or regulations; and general economic conditions and the economic conditions affecting the industries we serve. these factors, along with other risks inherent in performing fixed price contracts may cause actual revenues and gross profits for a project to differ from what we originally estimated and could result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. depending upon the size of a particular project, these variations could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, we may be required to pay liquidated damages under certain of our contracts if we fail to meet schedule or performance requirements, which could harm our reputation and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits. as discussed in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data , some of our revenues are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, utilizing the cost-to-cost method. this accounting method is generally accepted for fixed price contracts and is used because management considers expended costs to be the best available measure of progress on these contracts. the percentage-of-completion accounting practice we use results in the recognition of contract revenues and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. the earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability. contract losses are recognized in full when losses are determined to be probable and can be reasonably estimated, and contract profit estimates are adjusted based on an ongoing review of contract profitability. further, a substantial portion of our contracts contain cost and performance incentives. penalties are recorded when known or finalized, which generally occurs during the latter stages of the contract. in addition, we record cost recovery claims when we believe recovery is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. actual collection of claims could differ from estimated amounts and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings. in certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be significant. our failure to adequately recover on claims brought by us against customers related to payment terms and costs could materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. we have in the past brought, and may in the future bring, claims against our customers related to, among other things, the payment terms of our contracts and change orders relating to our contracts. these types of 14 table of contents claims occur due to, among other things, customer-caused delays or changes in project scope, both of which may result in additional cost, which may or may not be recovered until the claim is resolved. in some instances, these claims can be the subject of lengthy legal proceedings, and it is difficult to accurately predict when they will be fully resolved. a failure to promptly recover on these types of claims could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operating results can be negatively affected by weather conditions. we perform substantially all of our services outdoors. as a result, adverse weather conditions, such as rainfall or snowfall, may affect our productivity or may temporarily prevent us from performing services. the effect of weather delays on projects that are under fixed price arrangements may be greater if we are unable to adjust the project schedule for such delays. a reduction in our productivity in any given period or our inability to meet guaranteed schedules may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth. our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to: expand the range of services we offer to customers to address their evolving infrastructure needs; attract new customers; increase the number of projects performed for existing customers; hire and retain qualified employees; expand geographically, including internationally; and address the challenges presented by stringent regulatory, environmental and permitting requirements and difficult economic or market conditions that may affect us or our customers. in addition, our customers may cancel, delay or reduce the number or size of projects available to us for a variety of reasons, including capital constraints or inability to meet regulatory requirements. many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth are beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies for achieving internal growth will be successful. our business is highly competitive, and competitive pressures can affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the specialty contracting business is served by numerous small, owner-operated private companies, some public companies and several large regional companies. relatively few barriers prevent entry into some areas of our business, and as a result any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become one of our competitors. in addition, some of our competitors have significant financial, technical and marketing resources. we cannot be certain that our competitors do not have or will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services. similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position within the specialty contracting business or maintain our current customer base. certain of our competitors may have lower overhead cost structures, and therefore may be able to provide the required services at lower rates than us. we also face competition from in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers. electric power and oil and gas service providers usually employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services we provide, and we cannot be certain that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource these services in the future. 15 table of contents furthermore, a substantial portion of our revenues is directly or indirectly dependent on winning new contracts. the timing of when project awards will be made is unpredictable and often involves complex and lengthy negotiations and bidding processes. these processes can be impacted by a wide variety of factors, including price, governmental approvals, financing contingencies, commodity prices, environmental conditions and overall market and economic conditions. the competitive environment we operate in can also affect the timing of contract awards and the commencement or progress of work under awarded contracts. for example, based on rapidly changing competition dynamics, we have experienced, and may in the future experience, more competitive pricing in certain markets, such as the smaller scale transmission and distribution electric power market. our bids also may not be successful due to, among other things, a potential customer perception of our ability to perform the work or the technological advantages held by our competitors. additionally, changing competitive pressures can present difficulties in matching workforce size with available contract awards. as a result, the competitive environment we operate in could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and could cause our results of operations and cash flows to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. changes in government spending and legislative actions and initiatives relating to renewable energy and electric power may adversely affect demand for our services. demand for our services may not result from renewable energy initiatives. while many states currently have mandates in place that require specified percentages of power to be generated from renewable sources, those mandates could be reduced or made optional, thereby reducing, delaying or eliminating renewable energy development. additionally, renewable energy is generally more expensive to produce than traditional energy sources and may require additional power generation sources as backup. the locations of renewable energy projects are often remote and are not viable unless new or expanded transmission infrastructure to transport the power to demand centers is economically feasible. furthermore, funding for renewable energy initiatives is uncertain and has been constrained by tight credit markets. these factors have resulted in fewer renewable energy projects than anticipated and a delay in the construction of these projects and the related infrastructure, which has adversely affected the demand for our services. these factors could continue to result in delays or reductions in projects, which could further negatively impact our business. the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 (arra) provides for various stimulus programs, such as grants, loan guarantees, relating to renewable energy, energy efficiency and electric power infrastructure. some of these programs have expired, which may affect the economic feasibility of future projects. additionally, while a significant amount of stimulus funds have been awarded, we cannot predict the timing and scope of any investments to be made under stimulus funding or whether stimulus funding will result in increased demand for our services. investments for renewable energy and electric power infrastructure under arra programs may not occur, may be less than anticipated or may be delayed, any of which would negatively impact demand for our services. other current and potential legislative or regulatory initiatives may not result in increased demand for our services. examples include legislation or regulations that require utilities to meet reliability standards, ease siting and right-of-way issues for the construction of transmission lines, and encourage installation of new electric power transmission and renewable energy generation facilities. it is not certain whether existing legislation will create sufficient incentives for new projects, when or if proposed legislative initiatives will be enacted or whether any potentially beneficial provisions will be included in the final legislation. there are also a number of legislative and regulatory proposals that address greenhouse gas emissions, which are in various phases of discussion or implementation. the united states is also a party to a recent global, non-binding agreement that includes a voluntary plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions over the next decade. the outcome of these pending federal and state proposals and possible future legislative and regulatory proposals resulting from the global agreement could negatively affect the operations of our customers through costs of compliance or restraints on projects, which could reduce their demand for our services. 16 table of contents our business is subject to operational hazards, and we are self-insured against certain potential liabilities. our business is subject to significant operational hazards due to the nature of services provided by our workforce and the conditions in which they operate. these hazards include those involving electricity, fires, natural gas explosions, mechanical failures and weather-related incidents. our offshore operations are subject to additional risks, including blowouts, collisions, vessels sinking or capsizing and damage from severe weather conditions. these hazards could cause personal injury and severe damage to property, equipment and the environment and could lead to suspension of operations and legal liabilities. if we are not fully insured or indemnified against such liabilities or a counterparty fails to meet its indemnification obligations to us, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. further, any such liabilities or accidents could adversely affect our safety record, which could impact our ability to bid on certain work. we are insured for employer liability, general liability, auto liability and workers compensation claims, but such insurance is subject to deductibles and limits and may be canceled or may not cover all of our losses. the deductibles under our insurance programs are $10.0 million per occurrence for general liability and auto liability insurance programs, $5.0 million per occurrence for workers compensation, and $1.0 million per occurrence for employer liability. we are generally self-insured for all claims that do not exceed the amount of the applicable deductible. we also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $375,000 per claimant per year. our insurance policies include various coverage requirements, including the requirement to give appropriate notice. if we fail to comply with these requirements, our coverage could be denied. losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. these insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the number of incidents not reported. the accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals are adequate. if we were to experience insurance claims or costs significantly above our estimates, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. during the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to lawsuits or indemnity claims, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. we have in the past been, and may in the future be, named as a defendant in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business. these actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers compensation, employment discrimination and other employment-related damages, breach of contract, property damage, environmental liabilities, multiemployer pension plan withdrawal liabilities, punitive damages, and civil penalties or other losses or injunctive or declaratory relief. in addition, we generally indemnify our customers for claims related to the services we provide and actions we take under our contracts, and, in some instances, we may be allocated risk through our contract terms for actions by our customers or other third parties. because our services in certain instances may be integral to the operation and performance of our customers infrastructure, we have been and may become subject to lawsuits or claims for any failure of the systems that we work on, even if our services are not the cause of such failures, and we could be subject to civil and criminal liabilities to the extent that our services contributed to any property damage, personal injury or system failure. insurance coverage may not be available or may be insufficient for these lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings. the outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings could result in significant costs and diversion of management attention from our business. payments of significant amounts, even if reserved, could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for details on our existing litigation and claims, refer to note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. 17 table of contents unavailability or cancellation of third party insurance coverage would increase our overall risk exposure as well as disrupt our operations. we maintain insurance coverage from third party insurers as part of our overall risk management strategy and because some of our contracts require us to maintain specific insurance coverage limits. there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will be sufficient or effective under all circumstances or against all claims and liabilities which we may be subject. additionally, we renew our insurance policies on an annual basis, and therefore deductibles and levels of coverage may change in future periods. there can be no assurance that any of our existing insurance coverage will be renewed upon the expiration of the coverage period or that future coverage will be affordable at the required limits. in addition, our third party insurers could fail, suddenly cancel our coverage or otherwise be unable to provide us with adequate insurance coverage. if any of these events occur, our overall risk exposure would increase and our operations could be disrupted. for example, we have significant operations in california and other u.s. states which have an increased risk of wildfires. should our insurers determine to exclude coverage for wildfires in the future, we could be exposed to significant liabilities and a potential disruption of our operations. if our risk exposure increases as a result of adverse changes in our insurance coverage, we could be subject to increased claims and liabilities that could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. many of our contracts may be canceled or suspended on short notice or may not be renewed upon completion or expiration, and we may be unsuccessful in replacing our contracts in such events, which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we could experience a decrease in our revenues, net income and liquidity if any of the following occur: our customers cancel or suspend a significant number of contracts or contracts having significant value; we fail to renew a significant number of our existing contracts; we complete a significant number of non-recurring projects and cannot replace them with similar projects; or we fail to reduce operating and overhead expenses consistent with any decrease in our revenues. many of our customers may cancel or suspend our contracts on short notice, typically 30 to 90 days, even if we are not in default under the contract. certain of our customers assign work to us on a project-by-project basis under master service agreements. under these agreements, our customers generally have no obligation to assign a specific amount of work to us. our operations could decline significantly if the anticipated volume of work is not assigned to us, which will be more likely if customer spending decreases due to, for example, unfavorable economic conditions. many of our contracts, including our master service agreements, are opened to public bid at the expiration of their terms. there can be no assurance that we will be the successful bidder on our existing contracts that are subject to re-bid in the future. the nature of our business exposes us to warranty claims, which may reduce our profitability. under our contracts with customers, we typically provide warranties for the services and materials we provide, guaranteeing the work performed against, among other things, defects in workmanship. the majority of our contracts have a warranty period of 12 to 18 months, although some are longer. as much of the work we perform is inspected by our customers for any defects in construction prior to acceptance of the project, the warranty claims that we have historically received have not been substantial. additionally, materials used in construction are often provided by the customer or are warranted against defects by the supplier. however, certain projects may have longer warranty periods and include facility performance warranties that may be broader than the warranties we generally provide. in these circumstances, if warranty claims occur, we are generally required to re-perform the services and/or repair or replace the warranted item, at our sole expense, and we could also be responsible for other damages if we are not able to adequately satisfy our warranty obligations. 18 table of contents in addition, we may be required under contractual arrangements with our customers to warrant any defects or failures in materials we provide. while we generally require the materials suppliers to provide us warranties that are consistent with those we provide to our customers, if any of these suppliers default on their warranty obligations to us, we may incur costs to repair or replace the defective materials. costs incurred as a result of warranty claims could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the loss of one or a few customers could have a material adverse effect on us. a few customers have in the past and may in the future account for a significant portion of our revenues in any one year or over a period of several consecutive years. although we have long-standing relationships with many of our significant customers, our customers may unilaterally reduce or discontinue their contracts with us at any time. the loss of business from a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. backlog may not be realized or may not result in profits. backlog is not a term recognized under us gaap; however, it is a common measurement used in our industry. our methodology for determining backlog may not be comparable to the methodologies used by other companies. for a discussion of how we calculate backlog for our business, please see backlog in item 1. business . furthermore, backlog is difficult to determine with certainty. customers often have no obligation under our contracts to assign or release work to us, and many contracts may be terminated on short notice. reductions in backlog due to cancellation or reduction in scope of one or more contracts or projects by a customer or for other reasons could significantly reduce the revenues and profit we actually receive from contracts included in backlog. in the event of a project cancellation or reduction in scope, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but would not have a contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. the backlog we obtain in connection with companies we acquire may not be as large as we believed and may not result in the revenues or profits we expected at the time of acquisition. in addition, projects that are delayed may remain in backlog for extended periods of time. all of these uncertainties are heightened by negative economic conditions and their impact on our customers spending, as well as the effects of regulatory requirements and weather conditions. consequently, our estimates of backlog may not be accurate, and we may not be able to realize our estimated backlog. our financial results are based upon estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. in preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with us gaap, several estimates and assumptions are used by management to report the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses recognized during the periods presented and to determine the contingent assets and liabilities known to exist as of the date of the financial statements. these estimates and assumptions are necessary because certain information used in the preparation of our financial statements is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from available data or cannot be readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. in some cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine, and we must exercise significant judgment. estimates are used primarily in our assessment of the allowance for doubtful accounts, valuation of inventory, useful lives of assets, fair value assumptions in analyzing goodwill, other intangibles and long-lived asset impairments, equity and other investments, loan receivables, purchase price allocations, liabilities for self-insured and other claims and guarantees, multiemployer pension plan withdrawal liabilities, revenue recognition for construction contracts inclusive of contractual change orders and claims, share-based compensation, operating results of reportable segments, provision (benefit) for income taxes and the calculation of uncertain tax positions. actual results for all estimates could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 19 table of contents our inability to successfully execute our acquisition strategy may have an adverse impact on our growth strategy. our business strategy includes expanding our presence in the industries we serve through strategic acquisitions of companies that complement or enhance our business. the number of acquisition targets that meet our criteria may be limited. we may also face competition for acquisition opportunities, and other potential acquirers may offer more favorable terms or have greater financial resources available for potential acquisitions. this competition may further limit our acquisition opportunities and our ability to grow through acquisitions or could raise the prices of acquisitions and make them less accretive, or possibly not accretive, to us. failure to consummate future acquisitions could negatively affect our growth strategies. additionally, the acquisitions we complete may involve significant cash expenditures, the incurrence or assumption of debt or burdensome regulatory requirements, and any acquisition may ultimately have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be unsuccessful at integrating businesses that either we have acquired or that we may acquire in the future, which may reduce the anticipated benefit from acquired businesses. as a part of our business strategy, we have acquired, and may seek to acquire in the future, companies that complement or enhance our business. the success of this strategy will depend on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquired businesses, such as the expansion of our existing operations, elimination of redundant costs and capitalizing on cross-selling opportunities. to realize these benefits, however, we must successfully integrate the operations of the acquired businesses with our existing operations. integrating our acquired companies involves a number of special risks, including: failure of acquired companies to achieve the results we expect; diversion of our management attention from operational and other matters; difficulties integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies; additional financial reporting and accounting challenges associated with integrating acquired companies; inability to retain key personnel of acquired companies; risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities; loss of business due to customer overlap, change from local or private ownership or other factors; risks and liabilities arising from the prior operations of acquired companies, such as performance, operational, safety, workforce or tax issues, some of which we may not have discovered during our due diligence and may not be covered by indemnification obligations; and potential disruptions of our business. we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully complete the integration process without substantial costs, delays, disruptions or other operational or financial problems. if we do not implement proper overall business controls, our decentralized operating strategy could result in inconsistent operating and financial practices at the companies we acquire. additionally, failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses could adversely impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of impairments of goodwill, other intangible assets, long-lived assets or our investments. when we acquire a business, we record an asset called goodwill equal to the excess amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and other intangible assets of the business we acquire. goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives cannot be amortized, 20 table of contents but instead must be tested at least annually for impairment, while intangible assets that have finite useful lives are amortized over their useful lives. the accounting literature provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for impairment. refer to item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies for a detailed discussion. management is required to make certain estimates and assumptions when allocating goodwill to reporting units and determining the fair value of a reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. fair value is determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches. absent any impairment indicators, we perform our impairment tests annually during the fourth quarter. if market capitalization declines below book value, this may be considered an impairment indicator. as part of our 2015 annual test for goodwill impairment, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $39.8 million related to goodwill and $12.1 million related to customer relationships, trade names and non-compete agreement intangible assets. the extended low commodity price environment has significantly impacted certain reporting units within our oil and gas infrastructure services division. specifically, lower forecasted oil and gas services revenues for our gulf of mexico operations and certain operations in australia resulted in impairments of goodwill and intangible assets. any future impairments, including impairments of goodwill, intangible assets or investments, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations for the period in which the impairment is recognized. during the fourth quarter of 2015, in conjunction with our annual test for goodwill impairment, we also recorded a property and equipment impairment of $6.6 million related to certain international renewable energy services operations based on the estimated future undiscounted cash flows associated with the asset group as compared to the carrying value before the impairment. future events and unanticipated changes to assumptions could require additional provisions for impairment in future periods. in addition, we enter into various types of investment arrangements in the normal course of business, each having unique terms and conditions. these investments may include equity interests we hold in business entities, including general or limited partnerships, contractual joint ventures or other forms of equity or profit participation. these investments may also include our participation in different finance structures such as the extension of loans to project specific entities, the acquisition of convertible notes issued by project specific entities or other strategic financing arrangements. our equity method investments are carried at original cost and are included in other assets, net in our consolidated balance sheet and are adjusted for our proportionate share of the investees income, losses and distributions. equity investments are reviewed for impairment by assessing whether there has been a decline in the fair value of the investment below the carrying value and whether that decline is considered to be other than temporary. in making this determination, factors such as the ability to recover the carrying amount of the investment and the inability of the investee to sustain future earnings capacity are evaluated in determining whether an impairment has occurred and should be recognized. we extend credit to customers for purchases of our services and may enter into longer-term deferred payment arrangements or provide other financing or investment arrangements with certain of our customers, which subjects us to potential credit or investment risk that could, if realized, adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we grant credit, generally without collateral, to our customers, which include electric power utilities, oil and gas companies, governmental entities, general contractors, and builders, owners and managers of renewable energy facilities and commercial and industrial properties located primarily in the united states, canada and australia. we may also agree to allow our customers to defer payment on projects until certain milestones have been met or until the projects are substantially completed, and customers typically withhold some portion of amounts due to us as retainage. in addition, we may provide other forms of financing to our customers or make investments in our customers projects, typically in situations where we also provide services in connection with 21 table of contents the projects. our payment arrangements subject us to potential credit risk related to changes in business and economic factors affecting our customers, including material changes in our customers revenues or cash flows. these changes may also reduce the value of any financing or equity investment arrangements we have with our customers. many of our customers have been negatively impacted by uncertain economic conditions in recent years, and some may experience financial difficulties (including bankruptcies) that could impact our ability to collect amounts owed to us or impair the value of our investments in them. if we are unable to collect amounts owed to us, our cash flows would be reduced and we could experience losses if those amounts exceeded current allowances. we would also recognize losses with respect to any investments that are impaired as a result of our customers financial difficulties. the risk of loss may increase for projects where we provide services and make a financing or equity investment. losses experienced could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the loss of key personnel could disrupt our business. we depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and senior management, including the management at each of our operating units. although we typically enter into employment agreements with terms of one to three years with our executive officers and certain other key employees, we cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time or that key employees of our future acquisition targets will be willing to enter into such agreements. the loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business. we may be required to contribute cash to meet our underfunded obligations in certain multiemployer pension plans. our collective bargaining agreements generally require us to participate with other companies in multiemployer pension plans. to the extent those plans are underfunded, the employee retirement income security act of 1974, as amended by the multiemployer pension plan amendments act of 1980, may subject us to substantial liabilities under those plans if we withdraw from them or they are terminated or experience a mass withdrawal. for example, we are involved in several litigation matters associated with our withdrawal from the central states, southeast and southwest areas pension plan (the central states plan). the ultimate liability associated with these matters will depend on various factors, including interpretations of the terms of the collective bargaining agreements under which the subsidiaries participated and whether exemptions from withdrawal liability applicable to construction industry employers will be available. for additional information on the central states plan matters, please see collective bargaining agreements in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data . in addition, the pension protection act of 2006 added special funding and operational rules generally applicable to plan years beginning after 2007 for multiemployer plans that are classified as endangered, seriously endangered, or critical status. plans in these classifications must adopt measures to improve their funded status through a funding improvement or rehabilitation plan, which may require additional contributions from employers (which may take the form of a surcharge on benefit contributions) and/or modifications to retiree benefits. a number of multiemployer plans to which we contribute or may contribute in the future are in endangered, seriously endangered or critical status. the amount of additional funds we may be obligated to contribute to these plans in the future cannot be estimated, as such amounts will likely be based on future work that requires the specific use of union employees covered by these plans, and the amount of that future work and the number of employees that may be affected cannot reasonably be estimated. our performance of a significant amount of future services in areas that require us to utilize unionized employees covered by these affected plans, or a deterioration in the funding status of any of the plans to which our operating units contribute, could require significant additional contributions, which could detrimentally affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows if we are not able to adequately mitigate these costs. 22 table of contents our unionized workforce and related obligations could adversely affect our operations. as of december 31, 2015, approximately 55% of our hourly employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. although the majority of the collective bargaining agreements prohibit strikes and work stoppages, certain of our unionized employees participated in a strike and work stoppage during january 2012, and we cannot be certain that strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the future. strikes or work stoppages can adversely impact relationships with our customers and could cause us to lose business and decrease our revenue. our ability to complete future acquisitions could be adversely affected because of our union status for a variety of reasons. for instance, our union agreements may be incompatible with the union agreements of a business we want to acquire, and some businesses may not want to become affiliated with a union-based company. additionally, we may increase our exposure to withdrawal liabilities for underfunded multiemployer pension plans to which an acquired company contributes. approximately 45% of our hourly employees are not unionized. in addition, certain of our customers require or prefer a non-union workforce, and they may reduce the amount of work assigned to us if our non-union labor crews become unionized, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial or reputational impacts relating to occupational health and safety matters. our operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace. while we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources in our occupational health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operational risk and there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant liability exposure. although we have taken what we believe are appropriate precautions, we have suffered fatalities in the past and may suffer additional fatalities in the future. serious accidents, including fatalities, may subject us to substantial penalties, civil litigation or criminal prosecution. claims for damages to persons, including claims for bodily injury or loss of life, could result in substantial costs and liabilities. in addition, if our safety record were to substantially deteriorate over time or we were to suffer substantial penalties or criminal prosecution for violation of health and safety regulations, our customers could cancel our contracts and elect to procure future services from other providers. unsafe work sites also have the potential to increase employee turnover, increase the costs of projects for our clients, and raise our operating costs. any of the foregoing could result in financial loss, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks associated with operating in international markets could restrict our ability to expand globally and harm our business and prospects. although our international operations are presently conducted primarily in canada and australia, we also perform work in other foreign countries and expect that the number of countries in which we operate and the amount of work we perform in foreign countries could increase over the next few years. economic conditions, including those resulting from wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts or volatility in global markets, may adversely affect our customers, their demand for our services and their ability to pay for our services. in addition, our international operations include business and transactions for which we are paid in local currency. payments to us in currencies other than the u.s. dollar may exceed our local currency needs, leading to the accumulation of excess local currency, which, in certain instances, may be subject to temporary blocking, costly taxes or tariffs, or other difficulties if we attempt to convert those amounts to u.s. dollars. there are also numerous other risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including, but not limited to, potential instability in international markets, changes in applicable regulatory requirements, foreign currency fluctuations, political, economic and social conditions in foreign countries and complex u.s. and 23 table of contents foreign tax regulations and other laws and international treaties. these risks could restrict our ability to provide services to international customers, operate our international business profitably or fund our strategic objectives, and our overall business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted by our foreign activities. we could be adversely affected by our failure to comply with the laws applicable to our foreign activities, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and other similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions prohibit u.s.-based companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. we pursue opportunities in certain parts of the world that experience government corruption, and in certain circumstances, compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. our policies mandate compliance with all applicable anti-bribery laws. further, we require our partners, subcontractors, agents and others who work for us or on our behalf to comply with the fcpa and other anti-bribery laws. although we have policies and procedures designed to ensure that we, our employees, our agents and others who work with us in foreign countries comply with the fcpa and other anti-bribery laws, there is no assurance that such policies or procedures will protect us against liability under the fcpa or other laws for actions taken by our agents, employees and intermediaries. on march 10, 2014, the sec notified us of an inquiry into certain aspects of our activities in certain foreign jurisdictions and requested that we take necessary steps to preserve and retain categories of relevant documents, including those pertaining to our fcpa compliance program. the sec has not alleged any violations of law by quanta or our employees. if we are found to be liable for fcpa violations (either due to our own acts or inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could be subject to severe criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. in addition, detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged fcpa violations is expensive and could consume significant time and attention of our senior management. our participation in joint ventures exposes us to liability and/or harm to our reputation for failures of our partners. as part of our business, we have entered into joint venture arrangements and may enter into additional joint venture arrangements in the future. the purpose of these joint ventures is typically to combine skills and resources to allow for the performance of particular projects. success on these jointly performed projects depends in large part on whether our joint venture partners satisfy their contractual obligations. we and our joint venture partners are generally jointly and severally liable for all liabilities and obligations of our joint ventures. if a joint venture partner fails to perform or is financially unable to bear its portion of required capital contributions or other obligations, including liabilities stemming from claims or lawsuits, we could be required to make additional investments, provide additional services or pay more than our proportionate share of a liability to make up for our partner shortfall. further, if we are unable to adequately address our partner performance issues, the customer may terminate the project, which could result in legal liability to us, harm our reputation and reduce our profit on a project. we are in the process of implementing information technology (it) solutions, which could temporarily disrupt day-to-day operations at certain operating units. we continue to implement comprehensive it solutions that we believe will allow for the interface between functions such as accounting and finance, human resources, operations, and fleet management. continued development and implementation of the it solutions will require substantial financial and personnel resources. while the it solutions are intended to improve and enhance our information systems, implementation of new information systems at each operating unit exposes us to the risks of start-up of the new system and integration of that system with our existing systems and processes, including possible disruption of our financial reporting. there is no guarantee that we will realize economic or other intended benefits from continued development and 24 table of contents implementation of the it solutions. additionally, the it solutions may not be developed or implemented as timely or as accurately as planned. failure to properly implement the it solutions could result in substantial disruptions to our business, including coordinating and processing our normal business activities, testing and recording of certain data necessary to provide oversight over our disclosure controls and procedures and effective internal controls over our financial reporting, and other unforeseen problems. our failure to adequately protect critical data and technology systems could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we rely heavily on computer, information, and communications technology and related systems to manage our operations and other business processes and to protect sensitive information maintained in the normal course of business. cyber-attacks and physical security risks, such as storms or other natural phenomena, along with it solution failures, network disruptions and other breaches of data security, could disrupt our operations by causing, among other things, delays in the processing of transactions or the reporting of financial results or the unintentional disclosure of customer, employee or company information (including confidential or proprietary information) that could damage our reputation. additionally, cyber-attacks or acts of terrorism against us, our customers and/or our vendors or other breaches of our data security could cause service disruption or loss of control of our customers energy infrastructure systems, which could subject us to significant liabilities and cause damage to our reputation. while management has taken steps to address these concerns by implementing network security and internal control measures, there can be no assurance that the above events will not occur, and such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our dependence on suppliers, subcontractors and equipment manufacturers could expose us to the risk of loss in our operations. on certain projects, we rely on suppliers to obtain the necessary materials and subcontractors to perform portions of our services. we also rely on equipment manufacturers to provide us with the equipment required to conduct our operations. although we are not dependent on any single supplier, subcontractor or equipment manufacturer, any substantial limitation on the availability of required suppliers, subcontractors or equipment manufacturers could negatively impact our operations. the risk of a lack of available suppliers, subcontractors or equipment manufacturers may be heightened as a result of market and economic conditions. to the extent we cannot engage subcontractors or acquire equipment or materials, our operations could be negatively impacted. additionally, successful completion of our contracts may depend on whether our subcontractors successfully fulfill their contractual obligations. if our subcontractors fail to perform their contractual obligations as a result of financial or other difficulties, or if our subcontractors fail to meet the expected completion dates or quality standards, we may be required to incur additional costs or provide additional services in order to make up such shortfall. we may not have access in the future to sufficient funding to finance desired growth and operations. if we cannot secure future funds or financing on acceptable terms, we may be unable to support our future operations or growth strategy. we use cash for acquisitions and other investments, both of which are elements of our growth strategy, and the timing and size of our acquisition or investment efforts cannot be readily predicted. acquisitions and investments funded by cash on hand, cash from operations and cash from our current credit facility limit our financial flexibility and may increase our need to seek capital through additional debt or equity financings. we also rely on financing companies to fund the leasing of certain of our trucks and trailers, support vehicles and specialty construction equipment. credit market conditions may cause certain of these financing companies to restrict or withhold access to capital for us to fund the leasing of additional equipment. although we are not dependent on any single equipment lessor, a widespread lack of available capital to fund the leasing of equipment could negatively impact our future operations. 25 table of contents our credit agreement contains significant restrictions, including financial covenants and other restrictions on our ability to borrow amounts under the agreement and limitations on our ability to incur additional debt or conduct certain types of preferred equity financings. our ability to increase the current commitments under our credit facility is also dependent upon additional commitments from our lenders. furthermore, if we are permitted under our credit facility to seek additional debt or equity financings, we cannot be certain they will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all, as banks are often restrictive in their lending practices, and additional debt financing may include covenants that further limit our operational and financial flexibility. if we are unable to borrow under our current credit agreement or secure other financing or if our lenders become unable or unwilling to fund their commitments to us, we may not be able to access the capital needed to fund our growth and operations. for additional information on the terms of our credit facility, please read item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations debt instruments credit facility. additionally, the market price of our common stock may change significantly in response to various factors and events beyond our control, which will impact our ability to use equity to obtain funds. a variety of events may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly, including overall market conditions or volatility, a shortfall in our operating results from those anticipated, negative results or other unfavorable information relating to our market peers or the other risks described in this annual report on form 10-k. fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates may have a greater impact on our financial results as we expand into international markets. for the year ended december 31, 2015, we derived $1.54 billion, or 20.4%, of our consolidated revenues from foreign operations, the substantial majority of which was earned in canada and australia. the functional currencies for our foreign operations are typically the currency of the country in which the foreign operating unit is located. accordingly, our financial performance is subject to fluctuation due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. as the u.s. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, our translation of foreign currency denominated revenues or expenses will result in lower u.s. dollar denominated revenues and expenses. conversely, if the u.s. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated revenues or expenses will result in increased u.s. dollar denominated revenues and expenses. for example, during the year ended december 31, 2015, foreign revenues decreased by approximately $227 million in comparison with the year ended december 31, 2014 as a result of less favorable foreign currency exchange rates due to the u.s. dollar strengthening against the canadian and australian dollars. we intend to expand the volume of services that we provide internationally. as a result, our reported financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be further exposed to the effects that fluctuating exchange rates have on the process of translating the financial statements of our international operations and the remeasurement of transactions which are not denominated in the reporting units functional currencies. our business growth could outpace the capability of our decentralized management infrastructure. we cannot be certain that our management infrastructure will be adequate to support our operations as they expand. for example, the ability to internally communicate, coordinate and execute business strategies, plans and tactics may be negatively impacted by our increasing size and complexity. a decentralized structure places significant control and decision-making powers in the hands of our operating unit management. this contributes to the risk that we may be slower or less able to identify or react to problems affecting key business matters than we would in a more centralized environment. the lack of timely access to information may impact the quality of decision making by management. our decentralized organization creates the possibility that our operating subsidiaries assume excessive risk without appropriate guidance from our centralized legal, accounting, tax, treasury and insurance functions as to the potential overall impact. future growth could also impose significant additional responsibilities on members of our senior management, including the need to recruit and integrate new senior level managers and executives. we cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain such 26 table of contents additional managers and executives. to the extent that we are unable to manage our growth effectively, or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified management, we may not be able to expand our operations or execute our business plan. we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects if we are not able to obtain surety bonds, letters of credit or bank guarantees. a portion of our business depends on our ability to provide surety bonds, letters of credit, bank guarantees or other financial assurances. current or future market conditions, including losses incurred in the construction industry or as a result of large corporate bankruptcies, as well as changes in our sureties assessment of our operating and financial risk, could cause our surety providers and lenders to decline to issue or renew, or substantially reduce the amount of, bid or performance bonds for our work and could increase our costs associated with collateral. these actions could be taken on short notice. if our surety providers or lenders were to limit or eliminate our access to bonding, letters of credit or guarantees, our alternatives would include seeking capacity from other sureties and lenders or finding more business that does not require bonds or that allows for other forms of collateral for project performance, such as cash. we may be unable to secure these alternatives in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all, which could affect our ability to bid for or work on future projects requiring financial assurances. we have also granted security interests in certain assets to collateralize our obligations to our sureties and lenders. furthermore, under standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue or continue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing or renewing bonds. if we were to experience an interruption or reduction in the availability of bonding capacity as a result of these or other reasons, we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects that require bonding. our failure to comply with environmental laws could result in significant liabilities. our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including those dealing with the handling and disposal of waste products, pcbs, fuel storage and air quality. we perform work in many different types of underground environments. if the field location maps supplied to us are not accurate, or if objects are present in the soil that are not indicated on the field location maps, our underground work could strike objects in the soil, some of which may contain pollutants. these objects may also rupture, resulting in the discharge of pollutants. in such circumstances, we may be liable for fines and damages, and we may be unable to obtain reimbursement from the parties providing the incorrect information. we perform work in and around environmentally sensitive areas such as rivers, lakes and wetlands. in addition, we perform directional drilling operations below certain environmentally sensitive terrains and water bodies. due to the inconsistent nature of the terrain and water bodies, it is possible that such directional drilling may cause a surface fracture, resulting in the release of subsurface materials. these subsurface materials may contain contaminants in excess of amounts permitted by law, potentially exposing us to remediation costs and fines. we also own and lease several facilities at which we store our equipment. some of these facilities contain fuel storage tanks that are above or below ground. if these tanks were to leak, we could be responsible for the cost of remediation as well as potential fines. in addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or leaks, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur significant costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in certain instances, we have obtained indemnification or covenants from third parties (including predecessors or lessors) for such clean-up and other obligations and liabilities. however, such third-party indemnities or covenants may not cover all of our costs and the indemnitors may not pay amounts owed to us, and such unanticipated obligations or liabilities, or future obligations and liabilities, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. further, we cannot be certain that we will be able to identify or be indemnified for all potential environmental liabilities relating to any acquired business. 27 table of contents there are also other legislative and regulatory proposals to address greenhouse gas emissions. these proposals, if enacted, could result in potential new regulations, additional charges to fund energy efficiency activities, or other regulatory actions. any of these actions could result in increased costs associated with our operations and impact the prices we charge our customers. for example, if new regulations are adopted regulating greenhouse gas emissions from mobile sources such as cars and trucks, we could experience a significant increase in environmental compliance costs in light of our large rolling-stock fleet. in addition, if our operations are perceived to result in high greenhouse gas emissions, our reputation could suffer. we may not be successful in continuing to meet the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 has many requirements applicable to us regarding corporate governance and financial reporting, including requirements for management to report on our internal controls over financial reporting and for our independent registered public accounting firm to express an opinion on the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. during 2015, we continued actions to ensure our ability to comply with these requirements. as of december 31, 2015, our internal control over financial reporting was effective; however, there can be no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in future years. failure to maintain effective internal controls or to identify significant internal control deficiencies in acquired companies (both prior acquisitions and future acquisitions) could result in a decrease in the market value of our publicly traded securities, a reduced ability to obtain debt and equity financing, a loss of customers, or penalties and additional expenditures to meet the requirements. if we are unable to enforce our intellectual property rights or if our intellectual property rights become obsolete, our competitive position could be adversely impacted. we utilize a variety of intellectual property rights while performing our services. we view our portfolio of proprietary energized services tools and techniques and other process and design technologies as our competitive strengths, which we believe differentiate our service offerings. we may not be able to successfully preserve these intellectual property rights in the future, and these rights could be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries in which our services may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. we also license certain technologies from third parties, and there is a risk that our relationships with licensors may terminate or expire or may be interrupted or harmed. if we are unable to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights, or if intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings succeed against us, our ability to differentiate our service offerings could be reduced. in addition, if our intellectual property rights or work processes become obsolete, we may not be able to differentiate our service offerings, and some of our competitors may be able to offer more attractive services to our customers. as a result, our business and revenues could be materially and adversely affected. we may incur additional healthcare costs arising from federal healthcare reform legislation. in march 2010, the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (collectively aca) were signed into law in the united states. aca is intended to expand access to health insurance coverage to many uninsured individuals and expands coverage to those already insured. the changes and mandates on employers subject to aca pay or play requirements could cause us to incur additional group health insurance costs, although we do not expect any material short-term impact on our financial results as a result of aca. we continue to monitor developments under aca and assess the extent to which it could result in long-term material cost increases for us. opportunities within the government arena could subject us to increased governmental regulation and costs. most government contracts are awarded through a regulated competitive bidding process. as we pursue increased opportunities in the government arena, management focus associated with the start-up and bidding 28 table of contents process may be diverted away from other opportunities. involvement with government contracts could require a significant amount of costs to be incurred before any revenues are realized from these contracts. in addition, as a government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and other public sector regulations, any deemed violation of which could lead to fines or penalties or a loss of business. government agencies routinely audit and investigate government contractors. government agencies may review a contractor performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. if a government agency determines that costs were improperly allocated to specific contracts, such costs will not be reimbursed or a refund of previously reimbursed costs may be required. if a government agency alleges or proves improper activity, civil and criminal penalties could be imposed and serious reputational harm could result. many government contracts must be appropriated each year. if appropriations are not made in subsequent years, we would not realize all of the potential revenues from any awarded contracts. our sale or issuance of additional common stock or other equity-related securities could dilute each stockholder ownership interest or adversely affect the market price of our common stock. we grow our business organically as well as through acquisitions. we often fund all or a portion of the consideration paid in connection with our acquisitions with the issuance of additional equity securities, including shares of our common stock and securities that are convertible into shares of our common stock. we may issue additional equity securities in the future, including in connection with future acquisitions or other issuances of our common stock or convertible securities or otherwise. our restated certificate of incorporation provides that we may issue up to 600,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 152,907,166 shares were outstanding as of december 31, 2015. additionally, former owners of acquired companies own exchangeable shares, 6,876,042 of which were outstanding as of december 31, 2015 and included in the calculation of basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding. these shares are exchangeable for shares of quanta common stock on a one-for-one basis. any additional issuances of common stock or exchangeable shares could have the effect of diluting our earnings per share and our existing stockholders individual ownership percentages and could lead to volatility in the market price of our common stock. we cannot predict the effect that future issuances of our common stock or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of our common stock. certain provisions of our corporate governing documents could make an acquisition of our company more difficult. the following provisions of our charter documents, as currently in effect, and delaware law could discourage potential proposals to acquire us, delay or prevent a change in control of us or limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock: our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to issue blank check preferred stock and to adopt amendments to our bylaws; our bylaws contain restrictions regarding the right of stockholders to nominate directors and to submit proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings; our certificate of incorporation and bylaws restrict the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to act by written consent; and we are subject to provisions of delaware law which restrict us from engaging in any of a broad range of business transactions with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date such stockholder became classified as an interested stockholder. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 78 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary exposure to market risk relates to unfavorable changes in concentration of credit risk, interest rates and currency exchange rates. credit risk. we are subject to concentrations of credit risk related to our cash and cash equivalents and our accounts receivable, including amounts related to unbilled accounts receivable and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts. substantially all of our cash investments are managed by what we believe to be high credit quality financial institutions. in accordance with our investment policies, these 78 table of contents institutions are authorized to invest this cash in a diversified portfolio of what we believe to be high-quality investments, which primarily include interest-bearing demand deposits and money market mutual funds with original maturities of three months or less. although we do not currently believe the principal amounts of these investments are subject to any material risk of loss, changes in economic conditions could impact the interest income we receive from these investments. in addition, as we grant credit under normal payment terms, generally without collateral, we are subject to potential credit risk related to our customers ability to pay for services provided. this risk may be heightened as a result of the depressed economic and financial market conditions that have existed in recent years. however, we believe the concentration of credit risk related to trade accounts receivable and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts is limited because of the diversity of our customers. we perform ongoing credit risk assessments of our customers and financial institutions and in some cases we obtain collateral or other security from our customers. interest rate risk. as of december 31, 2015, we had no derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate risk. as such, we were exposed to earnings and fair value risk due to changes in interest rates with respect to our long-term obligations. as of december 31, 2015, the fair value of our variable rate debt of $466.9 million approximated book value. our weighted average interest rate for the year ended december 31, 2015 was 1.79%. the effect on our pretax earnings of a hypothetical 50 basis point increase or decrease in variable interest rates would be approximately $2.3 million based on our december 31, 2015 balance of variable rate debt. foreign currency risk. the u.s. dollar is the functional currency for the majority of our operations, which are primarily located within the united states. the functional currency for our foreign operations, which are primarily located in canada and australia, is typically the currency of the country in which the foreign operating unit is located. accordingly, our financial performance is subject to fluctuation due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. during 2015, revenues from our foreign operations accounted for 20.4% of our consolidated revenues. fluctuations in foreign exchange rates during the year ended december 31, 2015 caused an approximate decrease of $227 million in foreign revenues compared to the year ended december 31, 2014. we are also subject to foreign currency risk with respect to sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies of our operating units. to minimize the risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we may enter into foreign currency derivative contracts to hedge our foreign currency risk on a cash flow basis. there were no outstanding foreign currency derivative contracts at december 31, 2015. we also have foreign exchange risk related to cash and cash equivalents in foreign banks. based on the balance of cash and cash equivalents in foreign banks of $112.7 million as of december 31, 2015, an assumed 5% adverse change to foreign exchange rates would result in a fair value decline of $5.6 million. fluctuations in fair value are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a separate component of stockholders equity. 79 table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors, item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for additional information and discussion regarding the potential impact of currency rate fluctuations. customers, strategic alliances and preferred provider relationships our customers include electric power and oil and gas companies, as well as commercial, industrial and governmental entities. we have a large and diverse customer base, including many of the leading companies in the industries we serve. our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 32% of our consolidated revenues during the year ended december 31, 2016. our largest customer accounted for approximately 4% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended december 31, 2016. although we have a centralized marketing and business development strategy, management at each of our operating units is responsible for developing and maintaining successful long-term relationships with customers. our operating unit management teams build upon existing customer relationships to secure additional projects and increase revenues from our current customer base. many of these customer relationships originated decades ago and are maintained through a partnering approach with account management that includes project evaluation and consulting, quality performance, performance measurement and direct customer contact. additionally, operating unit management focuses on pursuing growth opportunities with prospective new customers. we encourage operating unit management to cross-sell services of our other operating units to their customers and to coordinate with our other operating units to pursue projects, especially those that are larger and more complicated. our business development group supports the operating units activities by promoting and marketing our services for existing and prospective large national accounts, as well as projects that would require services from multiple operating units. we are a preferred vendor for many of our customers. as a preferred vendor, we have met minimum standards for a specific category of service, maintained a high level of performance and agreed to certain payment terms and negotiated rates. we strive to maintain preferred vendor status as we believe it provides us an advantage in the award of future work for the applicable customer. many of our strategic relationships with customers take the form of strategic alliance or long-term maintenance agreements. strategic alliance agreements generally state an intention to work together over a period of time and/or on specific types of projects, and many provide us with preferential bidding procedures. strategic alliances and long-term maintenance agreements are typically agreements for an initial term of approximately two to four years and may include renewal options to extend the initial term. backlog backlog is not a term recognized under united states generally accepted accounting principles (us gaap); however, it is a common measurement used in our industry. our methodology for determining backlog may not be comparable to the methodologies used by other companies. 4 table of contents index to financial statements our backlog represents the amount of consolidated revenues that we expect to realize from future work under construction contracts, long-term maintenance contracts and master service agreements (msas). these estimates include revenues from the remaining portion of firm orders not yet completed and on which work has not yet begun, as well as revenues from change orders, renewal options, and funded and unfunded portions of government contracts to the extent that they are reasonably expected to occur. for purposes of calculating backlog, we include 100% of estimated revenues attributable to consolidated joint ventures and variable interest entities (vies). the following table presents our total backlog by reportable segment as of december 31, 2016 and 2015, along with an estimate of the backlog amounts expected to be realized within 12 months of each balance sheet date (in thousands): backlog as of december 31, 2016 backlog as of december 31, 2015 12 month total 12 month total electric power infrastructure services $ 3,369,373 $ 6,657,431 $ 3,307,837 $ 6,312,947 oil and gas infrastructure services 2,483,963 3,092,341 1,900,845 3,073,950 total $ 5,853,336 $ 9,749,772 $ 5,208,682 $ 9,386,897 revenue estimates included in our backlog can be subject to change as a result of project accelerations, cancellations or delays due to various factors, including but not limited to commercial issues, regulatory requirements and adverse weather. these factors can also cause revenue amounts to be realized in periods and at levels different than originally projected. generally, our customers are not contractually committed to specific volumes of services under our msas, and most of our contracts may be terminated, typically upon 30 to 90 days notice, even if we are not in default under the contract. we determine the estimated amount of backlog for work under msas by using recurring historical trends inherent in current msas, factoring in seasonal demand and projected customer needs based upon ongoing communications with the customer. in addition, many of our msas are subject to renewal options. as of december 31, 2016 and 2015, msas accounted for approximately 42% and 45% of our estimated 12 month backlog and approximately 53% and 50% of total backlog. there can be no assurance as to our customers actual requirements or that our estimates are accurate. competition the markets in which we operate are highly competitive. we compete with other contractors in most of the geographic markets in which we operate, and several of our competitors are large companies that have significant financial, technical and marketing resources. in addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry into some of the industries in which we operate and, as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become a competitor. a significant portion of our revenues is currently derived from unit price or fixed price agreements, and price is often an important factor in the award of such agreements. accordingly, we could be underbid by our competitors in an effort by them to procure such business. we believe that as demand for our services increases, customers often consider other factors in choosing a service provider, including technical expertise and experience, financial and operational resources, nationwide presence, industry reputation and dependability, which we expect to benefit larger contractors such as us. in addition, competition may lessen as industry resources, such as labor supplies, approach capacity. there can be no assurance, however, that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services, or that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position. we also face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers, including electric power, oil and gas and engineering companies, which employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services as those provided by us. although these companies currently outsource a significant portion of these services, in particular services relating to larger energy transmission infrastructure projects, there can be no assurance that they will continue to do so in the future or that they will not acquire additional in-house capabilities. 5 table of contents index to financial statements employees as of december 31, 2016, we had approximately 28,100 employees, consisting of approximately 5,200 salaried employees, including executive officers, professional and administrative staff, project managers and engineers, job superintendents and clerical personnel, and approximately 22,900 hourly employees, the number of which fluctuates depending upon the number and size of the projects that are ongoing and planned at any particular time. approximately 58% of our hourly employees at december 31, 2016 were covered by collective bargaining agreements, which require the payment of specified wages to our union employees, the observance of certain workplace rules and the payment of certain amounts to multiemployer pension plans and employee benefit trusts rather than us sponsoring or administering the benefit programs provided on behalf of our employees. these collective bargaining agreements have varying terms and expiration dates. the majority of the collective bargaining agreements contain provisions that prohibit work stoppages or strikes, even during specified negotiation periods relating to agreement renewals, and provide for binding arbitration dispute resolution in the event of prolonged disagreement. we provide health, welfare and benefit plans for employees who are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. we also have a 401(k) plan pursuant to which eligible employees who are not provided retirement benefits through a collective bargaining agreement may make contributions through a payroll deduction. we make matching cash contributions of 100% of each employee contribution up to 3% of that employee salary and 50% of each employee contribution between 3% and 6% of such employee salary, up to the maximum amount permitted by law. our industry is experiencing a shortage of journeyman linemen in certain geographic areas. in response to the shortage and to attract qualified employees, we utilize various international brotherhood of electrical workers (ibew) and national electrical contractors association (neca) training programs and support the joint ibew/neca apprenticeship program which trains qualified electrical workers. certain of our canadian operations also support the canadian union skilled workers (cusw) apprenticeship programs for training construction and maintenance electricians and powerline technicians. we have also established apprenticeship training programs approved by the u.s. department of labor for employees not subject to the ibew/neca apprenticeship program, as well as additional company-wide and project-specific employee training and educational programs. we believe our relationships with our employees and union representatives are good. materials our customers typically supply most or all of the materials required for each job. however, for some of our contracts, we may procure all or part of the materials required. as we continue to expand our comprehensive engineering, procurement and construction offerings, the cost of materials may become a proportionately larger component of our consolidated cost of services. we do not anticipate experiencing any significant difficulties in procuring such materials as we purchase such materials from a variety of sources. training, quality assurance and safety performance of our services requires the use of equipment and exposure to hazardous conditions. although we are committed to a policy of operating safely and prudently, we have been and will continue to be subject to claims by employees, customers and third parties for property damage and personal injury. in response to these inherent hazards and as part of our commitment to employee safety, our operating units have established safety programs, policies and procedures requiring that employees complete prescribed training and service programs prior to starting work. additionally, we have implemented an enterprise-wide automated external defibrillator (aed) program, which provides aeds to all of our crews and training to enhance life safety response measures. our operating units performing more sophisticated and technical jobs utilize, when applicable, training programs 6 table of contents index to financial statements provided by the ibew/neca apprenticeship program, the training programs sponsored by the four trade unions administered by the pipe line contractors association (plca), the apprenticeship training programs sponsored by the cusw or our equivalent programs. under the ibew/neca apprenticeship program, all journeyman linemen are required to complete a minimum of 7,000 hours of on-the-job training, approximately 144 hours of classroom education and extensive testing and certification. certain of our operating units have established apprenticeship training programs approved by the u.s. department of labor that prescribe equivalent training requirements for employees who are not otherwise subject to the requirements of the ibew/neca apprenticeship program. similarly, the cusw offers apprenticeship training for construction and maintenance electricians that requires five terms of 1,700 hours each, combining classroom and on-the-job training, as well as training for powerline technicians that also involves classroom and jobsite training over a four-year period. in addition, the laborers international union of north america, the international brotherhood of teamsters, the united association of plumbers and pipefitters and the international union of operating engineers have training programs specifically designed for developing and improving the skills of their members who work in the pipeline construction industry. our operating units also share best practices for training and educational programs and safety policies. during 2016, we expanded the capabilities of our training facility to include training for beginning linemen, lead and cable splicing and directional drilling in addition to our existing energized electric power and pipeline training. this facility helps us facilitate classroom and on-the-job training programs and allows us to train employees in a controlled environment without the challenges of limited structure access and utility constraints. regulation our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws and regulations including: licensing, permitting and inspection requirements applicable to contractors, electricians and engineers; regulations relating to worker safety and environmental protection; permitting and inspection requirements applicable to construction projects; wage and hour regulations; regulations relating to transportation of equipment and materials, including licensing and permitting requirements; building and electrical codes; and special bidding, procurement and other requirements on government projects. we believe that we have all the licenses required to conduct our operations and that we are in substantial compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating licenses, as well as give rise to termination or cancellation rights under our contracts or disqualify us from future bidding opportunities. environmental matters and climate change impacts we are committed to the protection of the environment and train our employees to perform their duties accordingly. we are subject to numerous federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations governing our operations, including the handling, transportation and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous substances and wastes, as well as emissions and discharges into the environment, including discharges to air, surface water, groundwater and soil. we also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and cleanup responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. under certain of these laws and regulations, liability can be imposed for cleanup of previously owned or operated properties or currently owned properties at which hazardous substances or wastes were discharged or disposed of by a former owner or 7 table of contents index to financial statements operator, regardless of whether we directly caused the contamination or violated any law at the time of discharge or disposal. the presence of contamination from such substances or wastes could also interfere with ongoing operations or adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property or use property as collateral for financing. in addition, we could be held liable for significant penalties and damages under certain environmental laws and regulations or be subject to a revocation of certain licenses or permits, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. our contracts with customers may also impose liability on us for environmental issues that arise through the performance of our services. from time to time, we may incur costs and obligations for correcting environmental noncompliance matters and for remediation at or relating to certain of our properties. we believe that we are in substantial compliance with our environmental obligations and that any such obligations will not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial performance. the potential impact of climate change on our operations is highly uncertain. climate change may result in, among other things, changes in rainfall patterns, storm patterns and intensity and temperature levels. as discussed elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k, including in item 1a. risk factors , our operating results are significantly influenced by weather, and significant changes in historical weather patterns could significantly impact our future operating results. for example, if climate change results in drier weather and more accommodating temperatures over a greater period of time, we may be able to increase our productivity, which could positively impact our revenues and gross margins. further, if climate change results in an increase in severe weather, such as hurricanes and ice storms, we could experience a greater amount of higher-margin emergency restoration service work, which generally has a positive impact on our gross margins. conversely, if climate change results in a greater amount of rainfall, snow, ice or other less accommodating weather conditions, we could experience reduced productivity, which could negatively impact our revenues and gross margins. climate change could also have a negative impact on the demand for fossil fuels, which in turn could negatively impact demand for certain of our services. risk management and insurance we are insured for employer liability, workers compensation, auto liability and general liability claims. under these programs, the deductible for employer liability is $1.0 million per occurrence, the deductible for workers compensation is $5.0 million per occurrence, and the deductibles for auto liability and general liability are $10.0 million per occurrence. we are generally self-insured for all claims that do not exceed the amount of the applicable deductible. in connection with our casualty insurance programs, we are required to issue letters of credit to secure our self-insured obligations. we also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $0.4 million per claimant per year. losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimate of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. these insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the number of incidents not reported. the accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals are adequate. we renew our insurance policies on an annual basis, and therefore deductibles and levels of insurance coverage may change in future periods. in addition, insurers may cancel our coverage or determine to exclude certain items from coverage, or we may elect not to obtain certain types or incremental levels of insurance if we believe that the cost to obtain such coverage exceeds the additional benefits obtained. in any such event, our overall risk exposure would increase, which could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 8 table of contents index to financial statements seasonality and cyclicality our revenues and results of operations can be subject to seasonal and other variations. these variations are influenced by weather, customer spending patterns, bidding seasons, receipt of required regulatory approvals, permits and rights of way, project timing and schedules, and holidays. please read the section entitled seasonality; fluctuations of results; economic conditions included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . website access and other information our website address is www.quantaservices.com . interested parties may obtain free electronic copies of our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to these reports through our website under the heading investors &amp; media/financial info/sec filings or through the website of the securities and exchange commission (the sec) at www.sec.gov . these reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the sec. in addition, our corporate governance guidelines, code of ethics and business conduct and the charters of each of our audit committee, compensation committee, governance and nominating committee and investment committee are posted on our website under the heading investors &amp; media/governance . we intend to disclose on our website any amendments or waivers to our code of ethics and business conduct that are required to be disclosed pursuant to item 5.05 of form 8-k. free copies of these items may be obtained from our website. we will make available to any stockholder, without charge, copies of our annual report on form 10-k as filed with the sec. for copies of this or any other quanta publication, stockholders may submit a request in writing to quanta services, inc., attn: corporate secretary, 2800 post oak blvd., suite 2600, houston, tx 77056, or by phone at 713-629-7600. investors and others should note that we announce material financial information and make other public disclosures of information regarding quanta through sec filings, press releases, public conference calls, and our website. we also utilize social media to communicate this information, and it is possible that the information we post on social media could be deemed material. accordingly, we encourage investors, the media and others interested in our company to follow quanta, and review the information we post, on the social media channels listed on our website in the investors &amp; media section. this annual report on form 10-k, our website and our social media channels contain information provided by other sources that we believe are reliable. we cannot provide assurance that the information obtained from other sources is accurate or complete. no information on our website or our social media channels is incorporated by reference herein. item 1a. risk fa ctors our business is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described below. the matters described below are not the only risks and uncertainties facing our company. additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below also may impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively affected, and we may not be able to achieve our goals or expectations. this annual report on form 10-k also includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended as forward-looking statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and should be read in conjunction with the section entitled uncertainty of forward-looking statements and information included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. our business can be highly cyclical and subject to seasonal and other variations that can result in significant differences in operating results from quarter to quarter. for example, we typically experience lower gross and 9 table of contents index to financial statements operating margins during winter months due to lower demand for our services and more difficult operating conditions in the northern hemisphere. additionally, our quarterly results may be materially and/or adversely affected by: the timing and volume of work we perform; permitting, regulatory or customer-caused delays on projects; adverse weather conditions; variations in the size, scope and margins of projects we perform and the mix of our customers, contracts and business during any particular quarter; increases in construction and design costs; fluctuations in regional, national or global economic and market conditions and demand for our services; pricing pressures resulting from competition; the budgetary spending patterns of customers and federal, state and local governments; disruptions in our customers strategic plans which could occur as a result of emerging technologies; the magnitude of work performed under change orders and the timing of their recognition; disputes with customers relating to payment terms under our contracts and change orders, and our ability to successfully negotiate and obtain payment or reimbursement under our contracts and change orders; the outcome or resolution of pending or threatened litigation, claims or other legal proceedings; liabilities associated with multiemployer pension plans in which our employees participate or withdrawals therefrom; significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in accounting pronouncements that require us to account for items differently than historical pronouncements have; losses experienced in our operations not otherwise covered by insurance; payment risk associated with the financial condition of our customers, including those customers affected by the volatility of natural gas and oil prices; the termination or expiration of existing agreements; changes in bonding and lien requirements applicable to existing and new agreements; implementation of various information systems, which could temporarily disrupt day-to-day operations; the recognition of tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions; the timing and magnitude of costs we incur to support growth internally or through acquisitions or otherwise; the timing and integration of acquisitions and the magnitude of the related acquisition and integration costs; and the timing and significance of potential additional impairments of long-lived assets, equity or other investments, goodwill or other intangible assets. 10 table of contents index to financial statements accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other quarter or for the entire year. negative economic and market conditions, including continued low oil and natural gas prices, may adversely impact our customers future spending as well as payment for our services and, as a result, our operations and growth. stagnant or declining economic conditions have adversely impacted the demand for our services in the past and resulted in the delay, reduction or cancellation of certain projects and may adversely affect us in the future. in addition, economic and market conditions specifically affecting any of the industries we serve could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a number of factors, including financing conditions and potential bankruptcies in the industries we serve or a prolonged economic downturn or recession, could adversely affect our customers and their ability or willingness to fund capital expenditures in the future or pay for past services. consolidation, competition, capital constraints or negative economic conditions in the electric power and oil and gas industries may also result in reduced spending by, or the loss of, one or more of our customers. our oil and gas infrastructure services segment is exposed to risks associated with the oil and gas industry. these risks, which are not subject to our control, include the volatility and cyclical nature of natural gas and oil prices and the resulting effect on demand for the services we provide, and a slowdown in the development or discovery of natural gas and/or oil reserves. specifically, lower natural gas and oil prices have resulted, and could continue to result, in decreased spending by some of our customers in our oil and gas infrastructure services segment. despite some recovery and stability in natural gas and oil prices since early 2016, capital spending by exploration and production companies and midstream companies has generally declined in the last few years. any future decline in prices, or perceived risk thereof, may place downward pressure on capital programs. as a result, our customers may reduce or delay capital spending on larger pipeline projects, gas gathering and compressor systems and related infrastructure, resulting in less demand for our services. if the profitability of our oil and gas infrastructure services segment were to decline, our overall financial position, results of operations and cash flows could also be adversely affected. additionally, declines in natural gas and oil prices, and the resulting decline in the development of resource plays and oil and natural gas production, can negatively impact our electric power infrastructure services segment. for example, the low price of oil has had an adverse impact on the canadian economy, which has impacted demand for some of our electric power services in canada. further, many of our customers finance their projects through the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. during depressed markets, our customers may be unable to access capital markets or otherwise obtain financing for budgeted capital expenditures. a reduction in cash flow or the lack of availability of debt or equity financing for our customers could result in a reduction in our customers spending for our services and may also impact the ability of our customers to pay amounts owed to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and our ability to grow. a variety of issues outside of our control, can affect the timing of and our performance on projects, which may result in additional costs to us, reductions or delays in revenues or the payment of liquidated damages. our business is dependent in part upon projects that can be cyclical in nature and are subject to risks of delay. the timing of or failure to obtain contracts, delays in awards of, start dates for or completion of projects and the cancellations of projects can result in significant periodic fluctuations in our business and results of operations. many projects involve challenging engineering, permitting, procurement and construction phases that may occur over extended time periods, sometimes over several years. we may encounter difficulties as a result of delays in design, engineering information or materials provided by the customer or a third party, delays or difficulties in equipment and material delivery, schedule changes, delays due to our or our customers failure to 11 table of contents index to financial statements timely obtain permits or rights of way or meet other regulatory requirements or permitting conditions, weather-related delays and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, that can negatively impact our ability to complete the project and in accordance with the original delivery schedule. a failure by us to properly manage and invest in our equipment fleet could also negatively impact project performance and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. larger projects, in particular, present additional performance risks due to the larger and more complex work involved. furthermore, the bidding processes for larger projects can also be longer and more complex, often taking six to nine months. regulatory and permitting delays on larger projects tend to be more challenging and cause more uncertainty as to project timing. in addition, we contract with third-party suppliers and subcontractors to assist us with the completion of contracts. any delay or failure by suppliers or by subcontractors in the completion of their portion of the project may result in delays in the overall progress of the project or may cause us to incur additional costs, or both. we also may encounter project delays due to local opposition, which may include injunctive actions as well as public protests, to the siting of electric power, natural gas or oil transmission lines, solar or wind projects, or other facilities. delays and additional costs may be substantial and, in some cases, we may be required to compensate the customer for such delays. we may not be able to recover all of such costs. in certain circumstances, we guarantee project completion by a scheduled acceptance date or achievement of certain acceptance and performance testing levels. failure to meet any of our schedules or performance requirements could also result in additional costs or penalties, including liquidated damages, and such amounts could exceed expected project profit. in extreme cases, the above-mentioned factors could cause project cancellations, and we may not be able to replace such projects with similar projects or at all. such delays or cancellations may impact our reputation or relationships with customers, adversely affecting our ability to secure new contracts. our customers may change or delay various elements of a project before or after its commencement, or the design, engineering information, equipment or materials that are to be provided by the customer or other parties may be preliminarily deficient or delivered later than required by the project schedule, resulting in additional direct or indirect costs. under these circumstances, we generally negotiate with the customer with respect to the amount of additional time required and the compensation to be paid to us. we are subject to the risk that we may be unable to obtain, through negotiation, arbitration, litigation or otherwise, adequate amounts to compensate us for the additional work or expenses incurred by us due to the above-mentioned delays and additional costs, including as a result of customer-requested change orders or failure by the customer to timely meet its obligations. litigation or arbitration with respect to payment terms under contracts and change orders is generally lengthy and costly and may adversely affect our relationship with our customers or potential customers, and it is often difficult to predict when and for how much the claims will be resolved. a failure to obtain adequate extensions or compensation for these matters could require us to record a reduction to amounts of revenues and gross profit recognized in prior periods under the percentage-of-completion accounting method. any such adjustments could be substantial. we may also be required to invest significant working capital to fund cost overruns while the resolution of claims is pending, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our failure to adequately recover on contract change orders or claims brought by us against customers related to payment terms and costs could materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. we have in the past brought, and may in the future bring, claims against our customers related to, among other things, the payment terms of our contracts and change orders relating to our contracts. these types of claims occur due to, among other things, customer-caused delays or changes in project scope, both of which may result in additional cost, which may or may not be recovered until the claim is resolved. in some instances, these claims can be the subject of lengthy legal proceedings, and it is difficult to accurately predict when they will be fully resolved. a failure to promptly recover on these types of claims could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 12 table of contents index to financial statements regulatory and environmental requirements affecting any of the industries we serve may lead to less demand for our services. because the vast majority of our revenue is derived from a few industries, the regulatory and environmental requirements affecting those industries have a material effect on our business, and increased regulatory and environmental requirements in those industries could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. customers in the industries we serve also face heightened regulatory and environmental requirements and stringent permitting processes that impact their projects, which can result in delays, reductions and cancellations of some of their projects. these regulatory factors have resulted in decreased demand for our services in the past, and they may continue to do so in the future, potentially impacting our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and our ability to grow. our business is labor intensive, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees. our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability is limited by our ability to employ, train and retain the necessary skilled personnel. we may not be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy. for instance, we may experience shortages of qualified journeyman linemen, who are integral to the provision of transmission and distribution services under our electric power infrastructure services segment. the commencement of new, large-scale infrastructure projects or increased demand for infrastructure improvements, as well as the aging electric utility workforce, may also further reduce the pool of skilled workers available to us. in addition, in our oil and gas infrastructure services segment, there is limited availability of experienced supervisors and foremen that can oversee larger diameter pipe projects. a shortage in the supply of these skilled personnel creates competitive hiring markets and may result in increased labor expenses. additionally, if we are unable to hire employees with the requisite skills, we may also be forced to incur significant training expenses. labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues or profitability. our use of fixed price contracts could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we currently generate some of our revenues under fixed price contracts. we also expect to generate a greater portion of our revenues under this type of contract in the future as larger projects, such as electric power and pipeline transmission build-outs and utility-scale solar facilities, become a more significant aspect of our business. we assume risks related to revenue, cost and profitability on fixed-priced contracts. actual revenues and project costs can vary, sometimes substantially, from our original projections due to changes in a variety of factors including: unforeseen circumstances not included in our cost estimates or covered by our contract for which we cannot obtain adequate compensation, including concealed or unknown environmental or geological conditions; changes in the cost of equipment, commodities, materials or labor; unanticipated costs or claims due to customer-caused delays, customer failure to provide required materials or equipment, errors in engineering, specifications or designs, project modifications, or contract termination or suspension and our inability to obtain reimbursement for such costs or recover on such claims; weather conditions; failure to perform and delays in performance by our project owners or their contractors or our suppliers or subcontractors; delays and additional costs associated with obtaining required permits or approvals; 13 table of contents index to financial statements delays and additional costs attributable to challenges and protests of the siting or specifications of certain projects; quality issues, including those requiring rework or replacement; changes in laws or regulations; and general economic conditions and the economic conditions affecting the industries we serve. these factors, along with other risks inherent in performing fixed price contracts may cause actual revenues and gross profits for a project to differ from what we originally estimated and could result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. depending upon the size of a particular project, these variations could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, we may be required to pay liquidated damages under certain of our contracts if we fail to meet schedule or performance requirements, which could harm our reputation and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits. as discussed in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data , some of our revenues are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, utilizing the cost-to-cost method. this accounting method is generally accepted for fixed price contracts and is used because management considers expended costs to be the best available measure of progress on these contracts. the percentage-of-completion accounting practice we use results in the recognition of contract revenues and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. the earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability. contract losses are recognized in full when losses are determined to be probable and can be reasonably estimated, and contract profit estimates are adjusted based on an ongoing review of contract profitability. further, a substantial portion of our contracts contain cost and performance incentives. penalties are recorded when known or finalized, which generally occurs during the latter stages of the contract. in addition, we record cost recovery claims when we believe recovery is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. actual collection of claims could differ from estimated amounts and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings. in certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be significant. our revenues may be exposed to potential risk if a project is terminated or canceled, if our customers encounter financial difficulties or if we encounter disputes with our customers. our contracts often require us to satisfy or achieve certain milestones in order to receive payment for the work performed, or in the case of cost-reimbursable contracts, provide support for billings in advance of receiving payment. as a result, we may incur significant costs or perform significant amounts of work prior to receipt of payment. if any of our customers do not proceed with the completion of projects or default on their payment obligations, or if we encounter disputes with our customers with respect to the adequacy of billing support, we may face difficulties in collecting payment of amounts due to us for the costs previously incurred. in addition, many of our customers for large projects are project-specific entities that do not have significant assets other than their interests in the project and may encounter financial difficulties relating to their businesses. it may be difficult to collect amounts owed to us by these customers. if we are unable to collect amounts owed to us, this would have an adverse effect on our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we have in the past brought, and may in the future bring, claims against our customers related to, among other things, the payment terms of our contracts and change orders relating to our contracts. these types of 14 table of contents index to financial statements claims occur due to, among other things, customer-caused delays or changes in project scope, both of which may result in additional cost, which may or may not be recovered until the claim is resolved. in some instances, these claims can be the subject of lengthy legal proceedings, and it is difficult to accurately predict when they will be fully resolved. a failure to promptly recover on these types of claims could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, any such claims may harm our future relationships with our customers. our operating results can be negatively affected by weather conditions and the nature of our work environment. we perform substantially all of our services outdoors. as a result, adverse weather conditions, such as extreme heat or cold, rainfall, snowfall, wind, storms or early thaw, may affect our productivity or may temporarily prevent us from performing services. the effect of weather delays on projects that are under fixed price arrangements may be greater if we are unable to adjust the project schedule for such delays. furthermore, our work is performed under a variety of conditions, including but not limited to, difficult terrain, difficult site conditions and large urban centers where delivery of materials and availability of labor may be impacted and sites which may have been exposed to harsh and hazardous conditions. a reduction in our productivity and efficiency in any given period or our inability to meet guaranteed schedules may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth. our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to: expand the range of services we offer to customers to address their evolving infrastructure needs; attract new customers; increase the number of projects performed for existing customers; hire and retain qualified employees; expand geographically, including internationally; and address the challenges presented by stringent regulatory, environmental and permitting requirements and difficult economic or market conditions that may affect us or our customers. in addition, our customers may cancel, delay or reduce the number or size of projects available to us for a variety of reasons, including capital constraints or inability to meet regulatory requirements. many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth are beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies for achieving internal growth will be successful. our business is highly competitive, and competitive pressures can affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the specialty contracting business is served by numerous small, owner-operated private companies, some public companies and several large regional companies. relatively few barriers prevent entry into some areas of our business, and as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become one of our competitors. in addition, some of our competitors have significant financial, technical and marketing resources. we cannot be certain that our competitors do not have or will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services. similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position within the specialty contracting business or maintain our current customer base. certain of our competitors may have lower overhead cost structures, and 15 table of contents index to financial statements therefore may be able to provide the required services at lower rates than us. we also face competition from in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers. electric power and oil and gas service providers are capable of performing, or acquiring businesses that perform, some of the same types of services we provide, and we cannot be certain that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource these services in the future. furthermore, a substantial portion of our revenues is directly or indirectly dependent on winning new contracts. the timing of when project awards will be made is unpredictable and often involves complex and lengthy negotiations and bidding processes. these processes can be impacted by a wide variety of factors, including price, governmental approvals, financing contingencies, commodity prices, environmental conditions and overall market and economic conditions. the competitive environment we operate in can also affect the timing of contract awards and the commencement or progress of work under awarded contracts. for example, based on rapidly changing competition dynamics, we have experienced, and may in the future experience, more competitive pricing in certain markets, such as the smaller scale transmission and distribution electric power market. our bids also may not be successful due to, among other things, a potential customer perception of our ability to perform the work or the technological advantages held by our competitors. additionally, changing competitive pressures can present difficulties in matching workforce size with available contract awards. as a result, the competitive environment we operate in could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and could cause our results of operations and cash flows to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. changes in government spending and legislative actions and initiatives relating to renewable energy and electric power may adversely affect demand for our services. demand for our services may not result from renewable energy initiatives. while many states currently have mandates in place that require specified percentages of power to be generated from renewable sources, those mandates could be reduced or made optional, thereby reducing, delaying or eliminating renewable energy development. additionally, renewable energy is generally more expensive to produce than energy from traditional sources and may require additional power generation sources as backup. the locations of renewable energy projects are often remote and are not viable unless new or expanded transmission infrastructure to transport the power to demand centers is economically feasible. furthermore, funding for renewable energy initiatives is uncertain and in the past has been constrained by tight credit markets. these factors could result in fewer renewable energy projects than anticipated and a delay in the construction of these projects and related infrastructure, which could negatively impact our business. other current and potential legislative or regulatory initiatives may not result in increased demand for our services. examples include legislation or regulations that require utilities to meet reliability standards, ease siting and right-of-way issues for the construction of transmission lines, and encourage installation of new electric power transmission and renewable energy generation facilities. it is not certain whether existing legislation will create sufficient incentives for new projects, when or if proposed legislative initiatives will be enacted or whether any potentially beneficial provisions will be included in the final legislation. there are also a number of legislative and regulatory proposals and global, non-binding agreements that address greenhouse gas emissions, which are in various phases of discussion or implementation. the outcome of these pending federal and state proposals and possible future legislative and regulatory proposals resulting from any global agreement could negatively affect the operations of our customers through costs of compliance or restraints on projects, which could reduce their demand for our services. our business is subject to operational hazards, and we are self-insured against certain potential liabilities. our business is subject to significant operational hazards due to the nature of services provided by our workforce and the conditions in which they operate. these hazards include those involving electricity, fires, natural gas explosions, mechanical failures and weather-related incidents. our offshore operations are subject to 16 table of contents index to financial statements additional risks, including blowouts, collisions, vessels sinking or capsizing and damage from severe weather conditions. these hazards could cause personal injury and severe damage to property, equipment and the environment and could lead to suspension of operations and/or legal liabilities. we also often operate in densely populated urban areas, which could increase the impact of any of these hazards or other accidents we experience. if we are not fully insured or indemnified against such liabilities or a counterparty fails to meet its indemnification obligations to us, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. further, any such liabilities or accidents could adversely affect our safety record, which could impact our ability to bid on certain work. we are insured for employer liability, workers compensation, auto liability and general liability claims, but such insurance is subject to deductibles and limits and may be canceled or may not cover all of our losses. under these programs, the deductible for employer liability is $1.0 million per occurrence, the deductible for workers compensation is $5.0 million per occurrence, and the deductibles for auto liability and general liability are $10.0 million per occurrence. we are generally self-insured for all claims that do not exceed the amount of the applicable deductible. in connection with our casualty insurance programs, we are required to issue letters of credit to secure our self-insured obligations. we also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $0.4 million per claimant per year. our insurance policies include various coverage requirements, including the requirement to give appropriate notice. if we fail to comply with these requirements, our coverage could be denied. losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimate of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. these insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the number of incidents not reported. the accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals are adequate. if we were to experience insurance claims or costs significantly above our estimates, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. during the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to lawsuits or indemnity claims, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. we have in the past been, and may in the future be, named as a defendant in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business. these actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers compensation, employment discrimination and other employment-related damages, breach of contract, property damage, environmental liabilities, multiemployer pension plan withdrawal liabilities, punitive damages, and civil penalties or other losses or injunctive or declaratory relief. in addition, we generally indemnify our customers for claims related to the services we provide and actions we take under our contracts, and, in some instances, we may be allocated risk through our contract terms for actions by our customers or other third parties. because our services in certain instances may be integral to the operation and performance of our customers infrastructure, we have been and may become subject to lawsuits or claims for any failure of the systems that we work on, even if our services are not the cause of such failures, and we could be subject to civil and criminal liabilities to the extent that our services contributed to any property damage, personal injury or system failure. insurance coverage may not be available or may be insufficient for these lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings. the outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings could result in significant costs and diversion of management attention from our business. payments of significant amounts, even if reserved, could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for details on our existing litigation and claims, refer to note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. 17 table of contents index to financial statements unavailability or cancellation of third party insurance coverage would increase our overall risk exposure as well as disrupt our operations. we maintain insurance coverage from third party insurers as part of our overall risk management strategy and because some of our contracts require us to maintain specific insurance coverage limits. there can be no assurance that our insurance coverages will be sufficient or effective under all circumstances or against all claims and liabilities which we may be subject. additionally, we renew our insurance policies on an annual basis, and therefore deductibles and levels of coverage may change in future periods. there can be no assurance that any of our existing insurance coverage will be renewed upon the expiration of the coverage period or that future coverage will be affordable at the required limits. in addition, our third party insurers could fail, suddenly cancel our coverage or otherwise be unable to provide us with adequate insurance coverage. if any of these events occur, our overall risk exposure would increase and our operations could be disrupted. for example, we have significant operations in california and other locations which have a higher risk of wildfires. should our insurers determine to exclude coverage for wildfires in the future, we could be exposed to significant liabilities and a potential disruption of our operations. if our risk exposure increases as a result of adverse changes in our insurance coverage, we could be subject to increased claims and liabilities that could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. many of our contracts may be canceled or suspended on short notice or may not be renewed upon completion or expiration, and we may be unsuccessful in replacing our contracts in such events, which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we could experience a decrease in our revenues, net income and liquidity if any of the following occur: our customers cancel or suspend a significant number of contracts or contracts having significant value; we fail to renew a significant number of our existing contracts; we complete a significant number of non-recurring projects and cannot replace them with similar projects; or we fail to reduce operating and overhead expenses consistent with any decrease in our revenues. many of our customers may cancel or suspend our contracts on short notice, typically 30 to 90 days, even if we are not in default under the contract. certain of our customers assign work to us on a project-by-project basis under master service agreements. under these agreements, our customers generally have no obligation to assign a specific amount of work to us. our operations could decline significantly if the anticipated volume of work is not assigned to us, which will be more likely if customer spending decreases due to, for example, unfavorable economic conditions. many of our contracts, including our master service agreements, are opened to public bid at the expiration of their terms. there can be no assurance that we will be the successful bidder on our existing contracts that are subject to re-bid in the future. the nature of our business exposes us to potential liability for warranty claims and faulty engineering, which may reduce our profitability. under our contracts with customers, we typically provide warranties for the services and materials we provide, guaranteeing the work performed against, among other things, defects in workmanship. the majority of our contracts have a warranty period of 18 to 24 months, although some are longer. as much of the work we perform is inspected by our customers for any defects in construction prior to acceptance of the project, the warranty claims that we have historically received have not been substantial. additionally, materials used in construction are often provided by the customer or are warranted against defects by the supplier. however, certain projects may have longer warranty periods and include facility performance warranties that may be broader than the warranties we generally provide. in these circumstances, if warranty claims occur, we are generally required to re-perform the services and/or repair or replace the warranted item and any other facilities 18 table of contents index to financial statements impacted thereby, at our sole expense, and we could also be responsible for other damages if we are not able to adequately satisfy our warranty obligations. in addition, we may be required under contractual arrangements with our customers to warrant any defects or failures in materials we provide. while we generally require the materials suppliers to provide us warranties that are consistent with those we provide to our customers, if any of these suppliers default on their warranty obligations to us, we may incur costs to repair or replace the defective materials. costs incurred as a result of warranty claims could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. furthermore, because our projects are often technically complex, our failure to make judgments and recommendations in accordance with applicable professional standards, including engineering standards, could result in damages. our business involves professional judgments regarding the planning, design, development, construction, operations and management of electric power transmission and pipeline infrastructure. while we do not generally accept liability for consequential damages, and although we have adopted a range of insurance, risk management and risk avoidance programs designed to reduce potential liabilities, a significantly adverse or catastrophic event at one of our project sites or completed projects resulting from the services we have performed could result in significant professional or product liability or other claims against us as well as reputational harm, especially if public safety is impacted. these liabilities could exceed our insurance limits or could impact our ability to obtain insurance in the future. in addition, customers, subcontractors or suppliers who have agreed to indemnify us against any such liabilities or losses might refuse or be unable to pay us. an uninsured claim, either in part or in whole, if successful and of a material magnitude, could have a substantial impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the loss of one or a few customers could have a material adverse effect on us. a few customers have in the past and may in the future account for a significant portion of our revenues in any one year or over a period of several consecutive years. although we have long-standing relationships with many of our significant customers, our customers may unilaterally reduce or discontinue their contracts with us at any time. the loss of business from a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. backlog may not be realized or may not result in profits. backlog is not a term recognized under us gaap; however, it is a common measurement used in our industry. our methodology for determining backlog may not be comparable to the methodologies used by other companies. for a discussion of how we calculate backlog for our business, please see backlog in item 1. business . furthermore, backlog is difficult to determine with certainty. customers often have no obligation under our contracts to assign or release work to us, and many contracts may be terminated on short notice. reductions in backlog due to cancellation or reduction in scope of one or more contracts or projects by a customer or for other reasons could significantly reduce the revenues and profit we actually receive from contracts included in backlog. in the event of a project cancellation or reduction in scope, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but would not have a contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. the backlog we obtain in connection with companies we acquire may not be as large as we believed and may not result in the revenues or profits we expected at the time of acquisition. in addition, projects that are delayed may remain in backlog for extended periods of time. all of these uncertainties are heightened by negative economic conditions and their impact on our customers spending, as well as the effects of regulatory requirements and weather conditions. consequently, our estimates of backlog may not be accurate, and we may not be able to realize our estimated backlog. our financial results are based upon estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. in preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with us gaap, several estimates and assumptions are used by management to report the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses recognized during 19 table of contents index to financial statements the periods presented and to determine the contingent assets and liabilities known to exist as of the date of the financial statements. these estimates and assumptions are necessary because certain information used in the preparation of our financial statements is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from available data or cannot be readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. in some cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine, and we must exercise significant judgment. estimates are used primarily in our assessment of the allowance for doubtful accounts, valuation of inventory, useful lives of assets, fair value assumptions in analyzing goodwill, other intangibles and long-lived asset impairments, equity and other investments, loan receivables, purchase price allocations, liabilities for self-insured and other claims and guarantees, multiemployer pension plan withdrawal liabilities, revenue recognition for construction contracts inclusive of contractual change orders and claims, share-based compensation, operating results of reportable segments, provision (benefit) for income taxes and the calculation of uncertain tax positions. actual results for all estimates could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our inability to successfully execute our acquisition strategy may have an adverse impact on our growth strategy. our business strategy includes expanding our presence in the industries we serve through strategic acquisitions of companies that complement or enhance our business. the number of acquisition targets that meet our criteria may be limited. we may also face competition for acquisition opportunities, and other potential acquirers may offer more favorable terms or have greater financial resources available for potential acquisitions. this competition may further limit our acquisition opportunities and our ability to grow through acquisitions or could raise the prices of acquisitions and make them less accretive, or possibly not accretive, to us. failure to consummate future acquisitions could negatively affect our growth strategies. additionally, the acquisitions we complete may involve significant cash expenditures, the incurrence or assumption of debt or burdensome regulatory requirements, and any acquisition may ultimately have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be unsuccessful at integrating businesses that either we have acquired or that we may acquire in the future, which may reduce the anticipated benefit from acquired businesses. as a part of our business strategy, we have acquired, and may seek to acquire in the future, companies that complement or enhance our business. the success of this strategy will depend on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquired businesses, such as the expansion of our existing operations, elimination of redundant costs and capitalizing on cross-selling opportunities. to realize these benefits, however, we must successfully integrate the operations of the acquired businesses with our existing operations. integrating our acquired companies involves a number of special risks, including: failure of acquired companies to achieve the results we expect; diversion of our management attention from operational and other matters; difficulties integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies; additional financial reporting and accounting challenges associated with integrating acquired companies; inability to retain key personnel of acquired companies; risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities; loss of business due to customer overlap, change from local or private ownership or other factors; risks and liabilities arising from the prior operations of acquired companies, such as performance, operational, safety, workforce or tax issues, some of which we may not have discovered during our due diligence and may not be covered by indemnification obligations; and potential disruptions of our business. 20 table of contents index to financial statements we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully complete the integration process without substantial costs, delays, disruptions or other operational or financial problems. if we do not implement proper overall business controls, our decentralized operating strategy could result in inconsistent operating and financial practices at the companies we acquire. additionally, failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of asset impairments. when we acquire a business, we record an asset called goodwill equal to the excess amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and other intangible assets of the business we acquire. goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives cannot be amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairment, while intangible assets that have finite useful lives are amortized over their useful lives. the accounting literature provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for impairment. refer to item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies for a detailed discussion. management is required to make certain estimates and assumptions when allocating goodwill to reporting units and determining the fair value of a reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. fair value is determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches. absent any impairment indicators, we perform our impairment tests annually during the fourth quarter. if market capitalization declines below book value, this may be considered an impairment indicator. as part of our 2015 annual test for goodwill impairment, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $39.8 million related to goodwill and $12.1 million related to customer relationships, trade names and non-compete agreement intangible assets. the extended low commodity price environment significantly impacted certain reporting units within our oil and gas infrastructure services division. specifically, lower levels of expected activity in the u.s. gulf of mexico and, to a lesser extent, with respect to certain directional drilling operations in australia resulted in impairments of goodwill and intangible assets. any future impairments, including impairments of goodwill, intangible assets or investments, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations for the period in which the impairment is recognized. we also recorded asset impairments primarily related to certain international renewable energy services operations of $8.0 million in 2016 and $6.6 million in 2015. the 2016 impairment was primarily due to a pending disposition of certain international renewable energy services operations, and the 2015 impairment was based on the estimated future undiscounted cash flows for the asset group as compared to their carrying value. in addition, we enter into various types of investment arrangements in the normal course of business, each having unique terms and conditions. these investments may include equity interests we hold in business entities, including general or limited partnerships, contractual joint ventures or other forms of equity or profit participation. these investments may also include our participation in different finance structures such as the extension of loans to project specific entities, the acquisition of convertible notes issued by project specific entities or other strategic financing arrangements. our equity method investments are carried at original cost and are included in other assets, net in our consolidated balance sheet and are adjusted for our proportionate share of the investees income, losses and distributions. equity investments are reviewed for impairment by assessing whether there has been a decline in the fair value of the investment below the carrying value and whether that decline is considered to be other than temporary. in making this determination, factors such as the ability to recover the carrying amount of the investment and the inability of the investee to sustain future earnings capacity are evaluated in determining whether an impairment has occurred and should be recognized. 21 table of contents index to financial statements we extend credit to customers for purchases of our services and may enter into longer-term deferred payment arrangements or provide other financing or investment arrangements with certain of our customers, which subjects us to potential credit or investment risk that could, if realized, adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we grant credit, generally without collateral, to our customers, which include electric power utilities, oil and gas companies, governmental entities, general contractors, and builders, owners and managers of renewable energy facilities and commercial and industrial properties located primarily in the united states, canada and australia. we may also agree to allow our customers to defer payment on projects until certain milestones have been met or until the projects are substantially completed, and customers typically withhold some portion of amounts due to us as retainage. in addition, we may provide other forms of financing to our customers or make investments in our customers projects, typically in situations where we also provide services in connection with the projects. our payment arrangements subject us to potential credit risk related to changes in business and economic factors affecting our customers, including material changes in our customers revenues or cash flows. these changes may also reduce the value of any financing or equity investment arrangements we have with our customers. many of our customers have been negatively impacted by uncertain economic conditions in recent years, and some may experience financial difficulties (including bankruptcies) that could impact our ability to collect amounts owed to us or impair the value of our investments in them. if we are unable to collect amounts owed to us, our cash flows would be reduced, and we could experience losses if those amounts exceeded current allowances. we would also recognize losses with respect to any investments that are impaired as a result of our customers financial difficulties. the risk of loss may increase for projects where we provide services and make a financing or equity investment. losses experienced could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the loss of key personnel could disrupt our business. we depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and senior management, including the management at each of our operating units. although we typically enter into employment agreements with terms of one to three years with our executive officers and certain other key employees, we cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time or that key employees of our future acquisition targets will be willing to enter into such agreements. the loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business. we may be required to contribute cash to meet our underfunded obligations in certain multiemployer pension plans. our collective bargaining agreements generally require us to participate with other companies in multiemployer pension plans. to the extent those plans are underfunded, the employee retirement income security act of 1974, as amended by the multiemployer pension plan amendments act of 1980, may subject us to substantial liabilities under those plans if we withdraw from them or they are terminated or experience a mass withdrawal. for example, we are involved in several litigation matters associated with our withdrawal from the central states, southeast and southwest areas pension plan (the central states plan). the ultimate liability associated with these matters will depend on various factors, including interpretations of the terms of the collective bargaining agreements under which the subsidiaries participated and whether exemptions from withdrawal liability applicable to construction industry employers will be available. for additional information on the central states plan matters, please see collective bargaining agreements in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data . in addition, the pension protection act of 2006 added special funding and operational rules generally applicable to plan years beginning after 2007 for multiemployer plans that are classified as endangered, seriously endangered or critical status based on multiple factors (including, for example, the plan funded 22 table of contents index to financial statements percentage, cash flow position and whether it is projected to experience a minimum funding deficiency). plans in these classifications must adopt measures to improve their funded status through a funding improvement or rehabilitation plan, as applicable, which may require additional contributions from employers (which may take the form of a surcharge on benefit contributions) and/or modifications to retiree benefits. certain plans to which we contribute or may contribute in the future are in endangered, seriously endangered or critical status. the amount of additional funds, if any, that we may be obligated to contribute to these plans in the future cannot be estimated due to uncertainty of the future levels of work that require the specific use of union employees covered by these plans, as well as the future contribution levels and possible surcharges on contributions applicable to these plans. our unionized workforce and related obligations could adversely affect our operations. as of december 31, 2016, approximately 58% of our hourly employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. although the majority of the collective bargaining agreements prohibit strikes and work stoppages, certain of our unionized employees have participated in strikes and work stoppages in the past, and we cannot be certain that strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the future. strikes or work stoppages can adversely impact relationships with our customers and could cause us to lose business and decrease our revenue. our ability to complete future acquisitions could be adversely affected because of our union status for a variety of reasons. for instance, our union agreements may be incompatible with the union agreements of a business we want to acquire, and some businesses may not want to become affiliated with a union-based company. additionally, we may increase our exposure to withdrawal liabilities for underfunded multiemployer pension plans to which an acquired company historically contributed or presently contributes. approximately 42% of our hourly employees are not unionized. in addition, certain of our customers require or prefer a non-union workforce, and they may reduce the amount of work assigned to us if our non-union labor crews become unionized, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial or reputational impacts relating to occupational health and safety matters. our operations are inherently dangerous and subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace. while we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources in our occupational health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operational risk and there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant liability exposure. although we have taken what we believe are appropriate precautions, we have suffered fatalities in the past and may suffer additional fatalities in the future. serious accidents, including fatalities, may subject us to substantial penalties, civil litigation or criminal prosecution. claims for damages to persons, including claims for bodily injury or loss of life, could result in substantial costs and liabilities. in addition, if our safety record were to substantially deteriorate over time or we were to suffer substantial penalties or criminal prosecution for violation of health and safety regulations, our customers could cancel our contracts and elect to procure future services from other providers. unsafe work sites also have the potential to increase employee turnover, increase the costs of projects for our clients, and raise our operating costs. any of the foregoing could result in financial loss, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks associated with operating in international markets could restrict our ability to expand globally and harm our business and prospects. although our international operations are presently conducted primarily in canada and australia, we also perform work in other foreign countries and expect that the number of countries in which we operate and the 23 table of contents index to financial statements amount of work we perform in foreign countries could increase over the next few years. economic conditions, including those resulting from wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts or volatility in global markets, may adversely affect our customers, their demand for our services and their ability to pay for our services. in addition, our international operations include business and transactions for which we are paid in local currency. payments to us in currencies other than the u.s. dollar may exceed our local currency needs, leading to the accumulation of excess local currency, which, in certain instances, may be subject to temporary blocking, costly taxes or tariffs, or other difficulties if we attempt to convert those amounts to u.s. dollars. there are also numerous other risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including, but not limited to, potential instability in international markets, changes in applicable regulatory requirements, foreign currency fluctuations, political, economic and social conditions in foreign countries, expropriation or nationalization of our assets, foreign legal systems and cultural practices dissimilar from those we are familiar with, and complex u.s. and foreign tax regulations and other laws and international treaties. these risks could restrict our ability to provide services to international customers, operate our international business profitably or fund our strategic objectives, and our overall business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted by our foreign activities. compliance with and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our performance. we are subject to extensive tax liabilities imposed by multiple jurisdictions, including income taxes, indirect taxes (excise/duty, sales/use, gross receipts, and value-added taxes), payroll taxes, franchise taxes, withholding taxes, and ad valorem taxes. new tax laws, treaties and regulations and changes in existing tax laws, treaties and regulations are continuously being enacted or proposed, and could result in a higher tax rate on our earnings, which could have a material impact on our earnings and cash flows from operations. in addition, significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities, and our tax estimates and tax positions could be materially affected by many factors including the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation, the introduction of new tax accounting standards, legislation, regulations and related interpretations, our global mix of earnings, the realizability of deferred tax assets and changes in uncertain tax positions. a significant increase in our tax rate could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and liquidity. we could be adversely affected by our failure to comply with the laws applicable to our foreign activities, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and other similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions prohibit u.s.-based companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. we pursue opportunities in certain parts of the world that experience government corruption, and in certain circumstances, compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. our policies mandate compliance with all applicable anti-bribery laws. further, we require our partners, subcontractors, agents and others who work for us or on our behalf to comply with the fcpa and other anti-bribery laws. although we have policies and procedures designed to ensure that we, our employees, our agents and others who work with us in foreign countries comply with the fcpa and other anti-bribery laws, there is no assurance that such policies or procedures will protect us against liability under the fcpa or other laws for actions taken by our agents, employees and intermediaries. if we are found to be liable for fcpa violations (either due to our own acts or inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could be subject to severe criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. in addition, detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged fcpa violations is expensive and could consume significant time and attention of our senior management. on march 10, 2014, the sec notified us of an inquiry into certain aspects of our activities in certain foreign jurisdictions and requested that we take necessary steps to preserve and retain categories of relevant documents, 24 table of contents index to financial statements including those pertaining to our fcpa compliance program. the sec did not allege any violations of law by quanta or our employees. on october 27, 2016, the sec notified us that it had concluded its investigation and, based on the information received, did not intend to pursue further action in connection with this inquiry. our participation in joint ventures exposes us to liability and/or harm to our reputation for failures of our partners. as part of our business, we have entered into joint venture arrangements and may enter into additional joint venture arrangements in the future. the purpose of these joint ventures is typically to combine skills and resources to allow for the bidding and performance of particular projects. success on these jointly performed projects depends in large part on whether our joint venture partners, over whom we may have little or no control, satisfy their contractual obligations. differences in opinions or views between us and our joint venture partners can result in delayed decision-making or failure to agree on material issues that could adversely affect the business and operations of our joint ventures. additionally, the failure by a joint venture partner to comply with applicable laws, regulations or client requirements could negatively impact our business. we and our joint venture partners are generally jointly and severally liable for all liabilities and obligations of our joint ventures. if a joint venture partner fails to perform or is financially unable to bear its portion of required capital contributions or other obligations, including liabilities stemming from claims or lawsuits, we could be required to make additional investments, provide additional services or pay more than our proportionate share of a liability to make up for our partner shortfall. further, if we are unable to adequately address our partner performance issues, the customer may terminate the project, which could result in legal liability to us, harm our reputation and reduce our profit or increase our loss on a project. we are in the process of implementing information technology (it) solutions, which could temporarily disrupt day-to-day operations at certain operating units. we continue to implement comprehensive it solutions that we believe will allow for the interface between functions such as accounting and finance, human resources, operations, and fleet management. continued development and implementation of the it solutions will require substantial financial and personnel resources. while the it solutions are intended to improve and enhance our information systems, implementation of new information systems at each operating unit exposes us to the risks of start-up of the new system and integration of that system with our existing systems and processes, including possible disruption of our financial reporting. there is no guarantee that we will realize economic or other intended benefits from continued development and implementation of the it solutions. additionally, the it solutions may not be developed or implemented as timely or as accurately as planned. failure to properly implement the it solutions could result in substantial disruptions to our business, including coordinating and processing our normal business activities, testing and recording of certain data necessary to provide oversight over our disclosure controls and procedures and effective internal controls over our financial reporting, and other unforeseen problems. our failure to adequately protect critical data, sensitive information and technology systems could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or result in harm to our reputation. we use technology in substantially all aspects of our business operations. we rely heavily on computer, information, and communications technology and related systems to manage our operations and other business processes and to protect sensitive company information. furthermore, in connection with our business we collect and retain personally identifiable and other sensitive information of our customers, stockholders and employees, all of which expect that we will adequately protect such information. cyber-attacks and physical security risks, such as storms or other natural phenomena, it solution failures, network disruptions, theft and other breaches of data security, could disrupt our operations by causing, among 25 table of contents index to financial statements other things, delays in the processing of transactions or the reporting of financial results or the unintentional disclosure of company information (including confidential or proprietary information). cyber-attacks or acts of terrorism against us, our customers and/or our vendors or other breaches of our data security could also cause service disruption or loss of control of our customers energy infrastructure systems, which could subject us to significant liabilities and cause damage to our reputation. additionally, a significant theft, loss, misappropriation, or inadvertent release of customer, stockholder or employee data by cyber-attack or otherwise could adversely impact our reputation and could result in significant costs, fines and litigation. while management has taken steps to address these concerns by implementing network security and internal control measures, there can be no assurance that the above events will not occur, and such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our dependence on suppliers, subcontractors and equipment manufacturers could expose us to risk of loss in our operations. on certain projects, we rely on suppliers to obtain the necessary materials and subcontractors to perform portions of our services. we also rely on equipment manufacturers to provide us with the equipment required to conduct our operations. although we are not dependent on any single supplier, subcontractor or equipment manufacturer, any substantial limitation on the availability of required suppliers, subcontractors or equipment manufacturers could negatively impact our operations. the risk of a lack of available suppliers, subcontractors or equipment manufacturers may be heightened as a result of market and economic conditions. to the extent we cannot engage subcontractors or acquire equipment or materials, our operations could be negatively impacted. additionally, successful completion of our contracts may depend on whether our subcontractors successfully fulfill their contractual obligations. if our subcontractors fail to perform their contractual obligations as a result of financial or other difficulties, or if our subcontractors fail to meet the expected completion dates or quality standards, we may be required to incur additional costs or provide additional services in order to make up such shortfall. an increase in the prices of certain materials used in our business could adversely affect our business. for certain contracts, we are exposed to market risk of increases in certain commodity prices of materials, such as copper and steel, which are used as components of supplies or materials utilized in all of our operations. we are also exposed to increases in energy prices, particularly as they relate to gasoline prices for our rolling-stock fleet of approximately forty thousand units. while we believe we can increase our prices to adjust for some price increases in commodities, there can be no assurance that price increases of commodities, if they were to occur, would be recoverable. additionally, some of our fixed price contracts do not allow us to adjust our prices and, as a result, increases in material or fuel costs could reduce our profitability with respect to such projects. we may not have access in the future to sufficient funding to finance desired growth and operations. if we cannot secure future funds or financing on acceptable terms, we may be unable to support our future operations or growth strategy. we use cash for acquisitions and other investments, both of which are elements of our growth strategy, and the timing and size of our acquisition or investment efforts cannot be readily predicted. acquisitions and investments funded by cash on hand, cash from operations and cash from our current credit facility limit our financial flexibility and may increase our need to seek capital through additional debt or equity financings. we also rely on financing companies to fund the leasing of certain of our trucks and trailers, support vehicles and specialty construction equipment. credit market conditions may cause certain of these financing companies to restrict or withhold access to capital for us to fund the leasing of additional equipment. although we are not dependent on any single equipment lessor, a widespread lack of available capital to fund the leasing of equipment could negatively impact our future operations. our credit agreement contains significant restrictions, including financial covenants and other restrictions on our ability to borrow amounts under the agreement and limitations on our ability to incur additional debt or 26 table of contents index to financial statements conduct certain types of preferred equity financings. our ability to increase the current commitments under our credit facility is also dependent upon additional commitments from our lenders. furthermore, if we are permitted under our credit facility to seek additional debt or equity financings, we cannot be certain they will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all, as banks are often restrictive in their lending practices, and additional debt financing may include covenants that further limit our operational and financial flexibility. if we are unable to borrow under our current credit agreement or secure other financing or if our lenders become unable or unwilling to fund their commitments to us, we may not be able to access the capital needed to fund our growth and operations. for additional information on the terms of our credit facility, please read item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations debt instruments credit facility. additionally, the market price of our common stock may change significantly in response to various factors and events beyond our control, which will impact our ability to use equity to obtain funds. a variety of events may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly, including overall market conditions or volatility, a shortfall in our operating results from those anticipated, negative results or other unfavorable information relating to our market peers or the other risks described in this annual report on form 10-k. fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates may have a greater impact on our financial results as we expand into international markets. for the year ended december 31, 2016, we derived $1.59 billion, or 20.8%, of our consolidated revenues from foreign operations, the substantial majority of which was earned in canada and australia. the functional currencies for our foreign operations are typically the currency of the country in which the foreign operating unit is located. accordingly, our financial performance is subject to fluctuation due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. as the u.s. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, our translation of foreign currency denominated revenues or expenses will result in lower u.s. dollar denominated revenues and expenses. conversely, if the u.s. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated revenues or expenses will result in increased u.s. dollar denominated revenues and expenses. for example, during the year ended december 31, 2016, foreign revenues decreased by approximately $41 million in comparison with the year ended december 31, 2015 as a result of less favorable foreign currency exchange rates due to the u.s. dollar strengthening against the canadian dollar. also, during the year ended december 31, 2015, foreign revenues decreased by approximately $227 million in comparison with the year ended december 31, 2014 as a result of less favorable foreign currency exchange rates due to the u.s. dollar strengthening against the canadian and australian dollars. we intend to expand the volume of services that we provide internationally. as a result, our reported financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be further exposed to the effects that fluctuating exchange rates have on the process of translating the financial statements of our international operations and the remeasurement of transactions which are not denominated in the reporting units functional currencies. our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. borrowings under our credit facility and certain other borrowings are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. if interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed remains the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease. our weighted average interest rate on our variable rate debt for the year ended december 31, 2016 was 2.1%. the annual effect on our pretax earnings of a hypothetical 50 basis point increase or decrease in variable interest rates would be approximately $1.8 million based on our december 31, 2016 balance of variable rate debt. 27 table of contents index to financial statements our business growth could outpace the capability of our decentralized management infrastructure. we cannot be certain that our management infrastructure will be adequate to support our operations as they expand. for example, the ability to internally communicate, coordinate and execute business strategies, plans and tactics may be negatively impacted by our increasing size and complexity. a decentralized structure places significant control and decision-making powers in the hands of our operating unit management. this contributes to the risk that we may be slower or less able to identify or react to problems affecting key business matters than we would in a more centralized environment. the lack of timely access to information may impact the quality of decision making by management. our decentralized organization creates the possibility that our operating subsidiaries assume excessive risk without appropriate guidance from our centralized legal, accounting, tax, treasury and insurance functions as to the potential overall impact. future growth could also impose significant additional responsibilities on members of our senior management, including the need to recruit and integrate new senior level managers and executives. we cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain such additional managers and executives. to the extent that we are unable to manage our growth effectively, or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified management, we may not be able to expand our operations or execute our business plan. we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects if we are not able to obtain surety bonds, letters of credit or bank guarantees. a portion of our business depends on our ability to provide surety bonds, letters of credit, bank guarantees or other financial assurances. current or future market conditions, including losses incurred in the construction industry or as a result of large corporate bankruptcies, as well as changes in our sureties assessment of our operating and financial risk, could cause our surety providers and lenders to decline to issue or renew, or substantially reduce the amount of, bid or performance bonds for our work and could increase our costs associated with collateral. these actions could be taken on short notice. if our surety providers or lenders were to limit or eliminate our access to bonding, letters of credit or guarantees, our alternatives would include seeking capacity from other sureties and lenders or finding more business that does not require bonds or that allows for other forms of collateral for project performance, such as cash. we may be unable to secure these alternatives in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all, which could affect our ability to bid for or work on future projects requiring financial assurances. we have also granted security interests in certain assets to collateralize our obligations to our sureties and lenders. furthermore, under standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue or continue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing or renewing bonds. if we were to experience an interruption or reduction in the availability of bonding capacity as a result of these or other reasons, we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects that require bonding. our failure to comply with environmental laws could result in significant liabilities. our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including those dealing with the handling and disposal of waste products, pcbs, fuel storage and air quality. we perform work in many different types of underground environments. if the field location maps supplied to us are not accurate, or if objects are present in the soil that are not indicated on the field location maps, our underground work could strike objects in the soil, some of which may contain pollutants. these objects may also rupture, resulting in the discharge of pollutants. in such circumstances, we may be liable for fines and damages, and we may be unable to obtain reimbursement from the parties providing the incorrect information. we perform work in and around environmentally sensitive areas such as rivers, lakes and wetlands. in addition, we perform directional drilling operations below certain environmentally sensitive terrains and water bodies. due to the inconsistent nature of the terrain and water bodies, it is possible that such directional drilling may cause a surface fracture, resulting in the release of subsurface materials. these subsurface materials may contain contaminants in excess of amounts permitted by law, potentially exposing us to remediation costs and fines. we also own and lease several facilities 28 table of contents index to financial statements at which we store our equipment. some of these facilities contain fuel storage tanks that are above or below ground. if these tanks were to leak, we could be responsible for the cost of remediation as well as potential fines. in addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or leaks, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur significant costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in certain instances, we have obtained indemnification or covenants from third parties (including predecessors or lessors) for such clean-up and other obligations and liabilities. however, such third-party indemnities or covenants may not cover all of our costs and the indemnitors may not pay amounts owed to us, and such unanticipated obligations or liabilities, or future obligations and liabilities, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. further, we cannot be certain that we will be able to identify or be indemnified for all potential environmental liabilities relating to any acquired business. there are also other legislative and regulatory proposals to address greenhouse gas emissions. these proposals, if enacted, could result in potential new regulations, additional charges to fund energy efficiency activities, or other regulatory actions. any of these actions could result in increased costs associated with our operations and impact the prices we charge our customers. for example, if new regulations are adopted regulating greenhouse gas emissions from mobile sources such as cars and trucks, we could experience a significant increase in environmental compliance costs in light of our large rolling-stock fleet. in addition, if our operations are perceived to result in high greenhouse gas emissions, our reputation could suffer. we may not be successful in meeting certain regulatory requirements applicable to us and our subsidiaries. as a public company, we are subject to the corporate governance and financial reporting requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, including requirements for management to report on our internal controls over financial reporting and for our independent registered public accounting firm to express an opinion on the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. during 2016, we continued actions to ensure our ability to comply with these requirements. as of december 31, 2016, our internal control over financial reporting was effective; however, there can be no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in future years. failure to maintain effective internal controls or to identify significant internal control deficiencies in acquired companies (both prior acquisitions and future acquisitions) could result in a decrease in the market value of our publicly traded securities, a reduced ability to obtain debt and equity financing, a loss of customers, or penalties and additional expenditures to meet the requirements. additionally, one of our subsidiaries has registered as an investment adviser with the sec under the u.s. investment advisers act of 1940, as amended (the advisers act). the advisers act and the rules promulgated thereunder impose substantive and material restrictions and requirements on the operations of our subsidiary, including certain fiduciary duties that apply to its relationships with its advisory clients. the sec has broad administrative powers to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations of the advisers act, ranging from fines and censures to termination of an adviser registration. our subsidiary is also subject to periodic sec examinations and other requirements, including, among other things, maintaining an effective compliance program, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, disclosure requirements and complying with anti-fraud prohibitions. the failure of our subsidiary to comply with the requirements of the advisers act could result in fines, suspensions of individual employees or other sanctions against our subsidiary that could have a material adverse effect on us. even if an investigation or proceeding does not result in a fine or sanction or if a fine or sanction imposed against our subsidiary or its employees were small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity relating to an investigation, proceeding or imposition of these fines or sanctions could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on us. if we are unable to enforce our intellectual property rights or if our intellectual property rights become obsolete, our competitive position could be adversely impacted. we utilize a variety of intellectual property rights while performing our services. we view our portfolio of proprietary energized services tools and techniques and other process and design technologies as our competitive 29 table of contents index to financial statements strengths, which we believe differentiate our service offerings. we may not be able to successfully preserve these intellectual property rights in the future, and these rights could be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries in which our services may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. we also license certain technologies from third parties, and there is a risk that our relationships with licensors may terminate or expire or may be interrupted or harmed. if we are unable to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights, or if intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings succeed against us, our ability to differentiate our service offerings could be reduced. in addition, if our intellectual property rights or work processes become obsolete, we may not be able to differentiate our service offerings, and some of our competitors may be able to offer more attractive services to our customers. as a result, our business and revenues could be materially and adversely affected. we may incur additional healthcare costs arising from federal healthcare reform legislation. in march 2010, the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (collectively aca) were signed into law in the united states. the status of the aca and any repeal or replacement thereof, is currently uncertain. changes to laws governing health insurance could have a substantial impact on our financial results. we continue to monitor developments under aca, including any potential repeal or replacement thereof, and assess the extent to which any such change could result in long-term material cost increases for us. opportunities within the government arena could subject us to increased governmental regulation and costs. most government contracts are awarded through a regulated competitive bidding process, which can often be more time consuming than the bidding process for non-governmental projects. additionally, involvement with government contracts could require a significant amount of costs to be incurred before any revenues are realized from these contracts. as a government contractor, we are also subject to a number of procurement rules and other public sector regulations, any deemed violation of which could lead to fines or penalties or a loss of business. government agencies routinely audit and investigate government contractors. government agencies may review a contractor performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. if a government agency determines that costs were improperly allocated to specific contracts, such costs will not be reimbursed or a refund of previously reimbursed costs may be required. if a government agency alleges or proves improper activity, civil and criminal penalties could be imposed and serious reputational harm could result. many government contracts must be appropriated each year. if appropriations are not made in subsequent years, we would not realize all of the potential revenues from any awarded contracts. our sale or issuance of additional common stock or other equity-related securities could dilute each stockholder ownership interest or adversely affect the market price of our common stock. we grow our business organically as well as through acquisitions. we often fund all or a portion of the consideration paid in connection with our acquisitions with the issuance of additional equity securities, including shares of our common stock and securities that are convertible into shares of our common stock. we may issue additional equity securities in the future, including in connection with future acquisitions or other issuances of our common stock or convertible securities or otherwise. our restated certificate of incorporation provides that we may issue up to 600,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 144,710,773 shares were outstanding as of december 31, 2016. additionally, former owners of certain acquired companies own exchangeable shares, 6,515,453 of which were outstanding as of december 31, 2016 and included in the calculation of basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding. these shares are exchangeable for shares of quanta common stock on a one-for-one basis. any additional issuances of common stock or exchangeable shares could have the effect of diluting our earnings per share and our existing stockholders individual ownership percentages and could lead to volatility in the market price of our common stock. we cannot predict the effect that future issuances of our common stock or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of our common stock. 30 table of contents index to financial statements certain provisions of our corporate governing documents could make an acquisition of our company more difficult. the following provisions of our charter documents, as currently in effect, and delaware law could discourage potential proposals to acquire us, delay or prevent a change in control of us or limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock: our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to issue blank check preferred stock and to adopt amendments to our bylaws; our bylaws contain restrictions regarding the right of stockholders to nominate directors and to submit proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings; our certificate of incorporation and bylaws restrict the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to act by written consent; and we are subject to provisions of delaware law which restrict us from engaging in any of a broad range of business transactions with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date such stockholder became classified as an interested stockholder. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 83 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for additional information and discussion regarding the potential impact of currency rate fluctuations. customers, strategic alliances and preferred provider relationships our customers include electric power and oil and gas companies, as well as commercial, industrial and governmental entities. we have a large and diverse customer base, including many of the leading companies in the industries we serve. our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 32% of our consolidated revenues during the year ended december 31, 2016. our largest customer accounted for approximately 4% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended december 31, 2016. although we have a centralized marketing and business development strategy, management at each of our operating units is responsible for developing and maintaining successful long-term relationships with customers. our operating unit management teams build upon existing customer relationships to secure additional projects and increase revenues from our current customer base. many of these customer relationships originated decades ago and are maintained through a partnering approach with account management that includes project evaluation and consulting, quality performance, performance measurement and direct customer contact. additionally, operating unit management focuses on pursuing growth opportunities with prospective new customers. we encourage operating unit management to cross-sell services of our other operating units to their customers and to coordinate with our other operating units to pursue projects, especially those that are larger and more complicated. our business development group supports the operating units activities by promoting and marketing our services for existing and prospective large national accounts, as well as projects that would require services from multiple operating units. we are a preferred vendor for many of our customers. as a preferred vendor, we have met minimum standards for a specific category of service, maintained a high level of performance and agreed to certain payment terms and negotiated rates. we strive to maintain preferred vendor status as we believe it provides us an advantage in the award of future work for the applicable customer. many of our strategic relationships with customers take the form of strategic alliance or long-term maintenance agreements. strategic alliance agreements generally state an intention to work together over a period of time and/or on specific types of projects, and many provide us with preferential bidding procedures. strategic alliances and long-term maintenance agreements are typically agreements for an initial term of approximately two to four years and may include renewal options to extend the initial term. backlog backlog is not a term recognized under united states generally accepted accounting principles (us gaap); however, it is a common measurement used in our industry. our methodology for determining backlog may not be comparable to the methodologies used by other companies. 4 table of contents index to financial statements our backlog represents the amount of consolidated revenues that we expect to realize from future work under construction contracts, long-term maintenance contracts and master service agreements (msas). these estimates include revenues from the remaining portion of firm orders not yet completed and on which work has not yet begun, as well as revenues from change orders, renewal options, and funded and unfunded portions of government contracts to the extent that they are reasonably expected to occur. for purposes of calculating backlog, we include 100% of estimated revenues attributable to consolidated joint ventures and variable interest entities (vies). the following table presents our total backlog by reportable segment as of december 31, 2016 and 2015, along with an estimate of the backlog amounts expected to be realized within 12 months of each balance sheet date (in thousands): backlog as of december 31, 2016 backlog as of december 31, 2015 12 month total 12 month total electric power infrastructure services $ 3,369,373 $ 6,657,431 $ 3,307,837 $ 6,312,947 oil and gas infrastructure services 2,483,963 3,092,341 1,900,845 3,073,950 total $ 5,853,336 $ 9,749,772 $ 5,208,682 $ 9,386,897 revenue estimates included in our backlog can be subject to change as a result of project accelerations, cancellations or delays due to various factors, including but not limited to commercial issues, regulatory requirements and adverse weather. these factors can also cause revenue amounts to be realized in periods and at levels different than originally projected. generally, our customers are not contractually committed to specific volumes of services under our msas, and most of our contracts may be terminated, typically upon 30 to 90 days notice, even if we are not in default under the contract. we determine the estimated amount of backlog for work under msas by using recurring historical trends inherent in current msas, factoring in seasonal demand and projected customer needs based upon ongoing communications with the customer. in addition, many of our msas are subject to renewal options. as of december 31, 2016 and 2015, msas accounted for approximately 42% and 45% of our estimated 12 month backlog and approximately 53% and 50% of total backlog. there can be no assurance as to our customers actual requirements or that our estimates are accurate. competition the markets in which we operate are highly competitive. we compete with other contractors in most of the geographic markets in which we operate, and several of our competitors are large companies that have significant financial, technical and marketing resources. in addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry into some of the industries in which we operate and, as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become a competitor. a significant portion of our revenues is currently derived from unit price or fixed price agreements, and price is often an important factor in the award of such agreements. accordingly, we could be underbid by our competitors in an effort by them to procure such business. we believe that as demand for our services increases, customers often consider other factors in choosing a service provider, including technical expertise and experience, financial and operational resources, nationwide presence, industry reputation and dependability, which we expect to benefit larger contractors such as us. in addition, competition may lessen as industry resources, such as labor supplies, approach capacity. there can be no assurance, however, that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services, or that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position. we also face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers, including electric power, oil and gas and engineering companies, which employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services as those provided by us. although these companies currently outsource a significant portion of these services, in particular services relating to larger energy transmission infrastructure projects, there can be no assurance that they will continue to do so in the future or that they will not acquire additional in-house capabilities. 5 table of contents index to financial statements employees as of december 31, 2016, we had approximately 28,100 employees, consisting of approximately 5,200 salaried employees, including executive officers, professional and administrative staff, project managers and engineers, job superintendents and clerical personnel, and approximately 22,900 hourly employees, the number of which fluctuates depending upon the number and size of the projects that are ongoing and planned at any particular time. approximately 58% of our hourly employees at december 31, 2016 were covered by collective bargaining agreements, which require the payment of specified wages to our union employees, the observance of certain workplace rules and the payment of certain amounts to multiemployer pension plans and employee benefit trusts rather than us sponsoring or administering the benefit programs provided on behalf of our employees. these collective bargaining agreements have varying terms and expiration dates. the majority of the collective bargaining agreements contain provisions that prohibit work stoppages or strikes, even during specified negotiation periods relating to agreement renewals, and provide for binding arbitration dispute resolution in the event of prolonged disagreement. we provide health, welfare and benefit plans for employees who are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. we also have a 401(k) plan pursuant to which eligible employees who are not provided retirement benefits through a collective bargaining agreement may make contributions through a payroll deduction. we make matching cash contributions of 100% of each employee contribution up to 3% of that employee salary and 50% of each employee contribution between 3% and 6% of such employee salary, up to the maximum amount permitted by law. our industry is experiencing a shortage of journeyman linemen in certain geographic areas. in response to the shortage and to attract qualified employees, we utilize various international brotherhood of electrical workers (ibew) and national electrical contractors association (neca) training programs and support the joint ibew/neca apprenticeship program which trains qualified electrical workers. certain of our canadian operations also support the canadian union skilled workers (cusw) apprenticeship programs for training construction and maintenance electricians and powerline technicians. we have also established apprenticeship training programs approved by the u.s. department of labor for employees not subject to the ibew/neca apprenticeship program, as well as additional company-wide and project-specific employee training and educational programs. we believe our relationships with our employees and union representatives are good. materials our customers typically supply most or all of the materials required for each job. however, for some of our contracts, we may procure all or part of the materials required. as we continue to expand our comprehensive engineering, procurement and construction offerings, the cost of materials may become a proportionately larger component of our consolidated cost of services. we do not anticipate experiencing any significant difficulties in procuring such materials as we purchase such materials from a variety of sources. training, quality assurance and safety performance of our services requires the use of equipment and exposure to hazardous conditions. although we are committed to a policy of operating safely and prudently, we have been and will continue to be subject to claims by employees, customers and third parties for property damage and personal injury. in response to these inherent hazards and as part of our commitment to employee safety, our operating units have established safety programs, policies and procedures requiring that employees complete prescribed training and service programs prior to starting work. additionally, we have implemented an enterprise-wide automated external defibrillator (aed) program, which provides aeds to all of our crews and training to enhance life safety response measures. our operating units performing more sophisticated and technical jobs utilize, when applicable, training programs 6 table of contents index to financial statements provided by the ibew/neca apprenticeship program, the training programs sponsored by the four trade unions administered by the pipe line contractors association (plca), the apprenticeship training programs sponsored by the cusw or our equivalent programs. under the ibew/neca apprenticeship program, all journeyman linemen are required to complete a minimum of 7,000 hours of on-the-job training, approximately 144 hours of classroom education and extensive testing and certification. certain of our operating units have established apprenticeship training programs approved by the u.s. department of labor that prescribe equivalent training requirements for employees who are not otherwise subject to the requirements of the ibew/neca apprenticeship program. similarly, the cusw offers apprenticeship training for construction and maintenance electricians that requires five terms of 1,700 hours each, combining classroom and on-the-job training, as well as training for powerline technicians that also involves classroom and jobsite training over a four-year period. in addition, the laborers international union of north america, the international brotherhood of teamsters, the united association of plumbers and pipefitters and the international union of operating engineers have training programs specifically designed for developing and improving the skills of their members who work in the pipeline construction industry. our operating units also share best practices for training and educational programs and safety policies. during 2016, we expanded the capabilities of our training facility to include training for beginning linemen, lead and cable splicing and directional drilling in addition to our existing energized electric power and pipeline training. this facility helps us facilitate classroom and on-the-job training programs and allows us to train employees in a controlled environment without the challenges of limited structure access and utility constraints. regulation our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws and regulations including: licensing, permitting and inspection requirements applicable to contractors, electricians and engineers; regulations relating to worker safety and environmental protection; permitting and inspection requirements applicable to construction projects; wage and hour regulations; regulations relating to transportation of equipment and materials, including licensing and permitting requirements; building and electrical codes; and special bidding, procurement and other requirements on government projects. we believe that we have all the licenses required to conduct our operations and that we are in substantial compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating licenses, as well as give rise to termination or cancellation rights under our contracts or disqualify us from future bidding opportunities. environmental matters and climate change impacts we are committed to the protection of the environment and train our employees to perform their duties accordingly. we are subject to numerous federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations governing our operations, including the handling, transportation and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous substances and wastes, as well as emissions and discharges into the environment, including discharges to air, surface water, groundwater and soil. we also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and cleanup responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. under certain of these laws and regulations, liability can be imposed for cleanup of previously owned or operated properties or currently owned properties at which hazardous substances or wastes were discharged or disposed of by a former owner or 7 table of contents index to financial statements operator, regardless of whether we directly caused the contamination or violated any law at the time of discharge or disposal. the presence of contamination from such substances or wastes could also interfere with ongoing operations or adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property or use property as collateral for financing. in addition, we could be held liable for significant penalties and damages under certain environmental laws and regulations or be subject to a revocation of certain licenses or permits, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. our contracts with customers may also impose liability on us for environmental issues that arise through the performance of our services. from time to time, we may incur costs and obligations for correcting environmental noncompliance matters and for remediation at or relating to certain of our properties. we believe that we are in substantial compliance with our environmental obligations and that any such obligations will not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial performance. the potential impact of climate change on our operations is highly uncertain. climate change may result in, among other things, changes in rainfall patterns, storm patterns and intensity and temperature levels. as discussed elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k, including in item 1a. risk factors , our operating results are significantly influenced by weather, and significant changes in historical weather patterns could significantly impact our future operating results. for example, if climate change results in drier weather and more accommodating temperatures over a greater period of time, we may be able to increase our productivity, which could positively impact our revenues and gross margins. further, if climate change results in an increase in severe weather, such as hurricanes and ice storms, we could experience a greater amount of higher-margin emergency restoration service work, which generally has a positive impact on our gross margins. conversely, if climate change results in a greater amount of rainfall, snow, ice or other less accommodating weather conditions, we could experience reduced productivity, which could negatively impact our revenues and gross margins. climate change could also have a negative impact on the demand for fossil fuels, which in turn could negatively impact demand for certain of our services. risk management and insurance we are insured for employer liability, workers compensation, auto liability and general liability claims. under these programs, the deductible for employer liability is $1.0 million per occurrence, the deductible for workers compensation is $5.0 million per occurrence, and the deductibles for auto liability and general liability are $10.0 million per occurrence. we are generally self-insured for all claims that do not exceed the amount of the applicable deductible. in connection with our casualty insurance programs, we are required to issue letters of credit to secure our self-insured obligations. we also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $0.4 million per claimant per year. losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimate of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. these insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the number of incidents not reported. the accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals are adequate. we renew our insurance policies on an annual basis, and therefore deductibles and levels of insurance coverage may change in future periods. in addition, insurers may cancel our coverage or determine to exclude certain items from coverage, or we may elect not to obtain certain types or incremental levels of insurance if we believe that the cost to obtain such coverage exceeds the additional benefits obtained. in any such event, our overall risk exposure would increase, which could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 8 table of contents index to financial statements seasonality and cyclicality our revenues and results of operations can be subject to seasonal and other variations. these variations are influenced by weather, customer spending patterns, bidding seasons, receipt of required regulatory approvals, permits and rights of way, project timing and schedules, and holidays. please read the section entitled seasonality; fluctuations of results; economic conditions included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . website access and other information our website address is www.quantaservices.com . interested parties may obtain free electronic copies of our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to these reports through our website under the heading investors &amp; media/financial info/sec filings or through the website of the securities and exchange commission (the sec) at www.sec.gov . these reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the sec. in addition, our corporate governance guidelines, code of ethics and business conduct and the charters of each of our audit committee, compensation committee, governance and nominating committee and investment committee are posted on our website under the heading investors &amp; media/governance . we intend to disclose on our website any amendments or waivers to our code of ethics and business conduct that are required to be disclosed pursuant to item 5.05 of form 8-k. free copies of these items may be obtained from our website. we will make available to any stockholder, without charge, copies of our annual report on form 10-k as filed with the sec. for copies of this or any other quanta publication, stockholders may submit a request in writing to quanta services, inc., attn: corporate secretary, 2800 post oak blvd., suite 2600, houston, tx 77056, or by phone at 713-629-7600. investors and others should note that we announce material financial information and make other public disclosures of information regarding quanta through sec filings, press releases, public conference calls, and our website. we also utilize social media to communicate this information, and it is possible that the information we post on social media could be deemed material. accordingly, we encourage investors, the media and others interested in our company to follow quanta, and review the information we post, on the social media channels listed on our website in the investors &amp; media section. this annual report on form 10-k, our website and our social media channels contain information provided by other sources that we believe are reliable. we cannot provide assurance that the information obtained from other sources is accurate or complete. no information on our website or our social media channels is incorporated by reference herein. item 1a. risk fa ctors our business is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described below. the matters described below are not the only risks and uncertainties facing our company. additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below also may impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively affected, and we may not be able to achieve our goals or expectations. this annual report on form 10-k also includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended as forward-looking statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and should be read in conjunction with the section entitled uncertainty of forward-looking statements and information included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. our business can be highly cyclical and subject to seasonal and other variations that can result in significant differences in operating results from quarter to quarter. for example, we typically experience lower gross and 9 table of contents index to financial statements operating margins during winter months due to lower demand for our services and more difficult operating conditions in the northern hemisphere. additionally, our quarterly results may be materially and/or adversely affected by: the timing and volume of work we perform; permitting, regulatory or customer-caused delays on projects; adverse weather conditions; variations in the size, scope and margins of projects we perform and the mix of our customers, contracts and business during any particular quarter; increases in construction and design costs; fluctuations in regional, national or global economic and market conditions and demand for our services; pricing pressures resulting from competition; the budgetary spending patterns of customers and federal, state and local governments; disruptions in our customers strategic plans which could occur as a result of emerging technologies; the magnitude of work performed under change orders and the timing of their recognition; disputes with customers relating to payment terms under our contracts and change orders, and our ability to successfully negotiate and obtain payment or reimbursement under our contracts and change orders; the outcome or resolution of pending or threatened litigation, claims or other legal proceedings; liabilities associated with multiemployer pension plans in which our employees participate or withdrawals therefrom; significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in accounting pronouncements that require us to account for items differently than historical pronouncements have; losses experienced in our operations not otherwise covered by insurance; payment risk associated with the financial condition of our customers, including those customers affected by the volatility of natural gas and oil prices; the termination or expiration of existing agreements; changes in bonding and lien requirements applicable to existing and new agreements; implementation of various information systems, which could temporarily disrupt day-to-day operations; the recognition of tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions; the timing and magnitude of costs we incur to support growth internally or through acquisitions or otherwise; the timing and integration of acquisitions and the magnitude of the related acquisition and integration costs; and the timing and significance of potential additional impairments of long-lived assets, equity or other investments, goodwill or other intangible assets. 10 table of contents index to financial statements accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other quarter or for the entire year. negative economic and market conditions, including continued low oil and natural gas prices, may adversely impact our customers future spending as well as payment for our services and, as a result, our operations and growth. stagnant or declining economic conditions have adversely impacted the demand for our services in the past and resulted in the delay, reduction or cancellation of certain projects and may adversely affect us in the future. in addition, economic and market conditions specifically affecting any of the industries we serve could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a number of factors, including financing conditions and potential bankruptcies in the industries we serve or a prolonged economic downturn or recession, could adversely affect our customers and their ability or willingness to fund capital expenditures in the future or pay for past services. consolidation, competition, capital constraints or negative economic conditions in the electric power and oil and gas industries may also result in reduced spending by, or the loss of, one or more of our customers. our oil and gas infrastructure services segment is exposed to risks associated with the oil and gas industry. these risks, which are not subject to our control, include the volatility and cyclical nature of natural gas and oil prices and the resulting effect on demand for the services we provide, and a slowdown in the development or discovery of natural gas and/or oil reserves. specifically, lower natural gas and oil prices have resulted, and could continue to result, in decreased spending by some of our customers in our oil and gas infrastructure services segment. despite some recovery and stability in natural gas and oil prices since early 2016, capital spending by exploration and production companies and midstream companies has generally declined in the last few years. any future decline in prices, or perceived risk thereof, may place downward pressure on capital programs. as a result, our customers may reduce or delay capital spending on larger pipeline projects, gas gathering and compressor systems and related infrastructure, resulting in less demand for our services. if the profitability of our oil and gas infrastructure services segment were to decline, our overall financial position, results of operations and cash flows could also be adversely affected. additionally, declines in natural gas and oil prices, and the resulting decline in the development of resource plays and oil and natural gas production, can negatively impact our electric power infrastructure services segment. for example, the low price of oil has had an adverse impact on the canadian economy, which has impacted demand for some of our electric power services in canada. further, many of our customers finance their projects through the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. during depressed markets, our customers may be unable to access capital markets or otherwise obtain financing for budgeted capital expenditures. a reduction in cash flow or the lack of availability of debt or equity financing for our customers could result in a reduction in our customers spending for our services and may also impact the ability of our customers to pay amounts owed to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and our ability to grow. a variety of issues outside of our control, can affect the timing of and our performance on projects, which may result in additional costs to us, reductions or delays in revenues or the payment of liquidated damages. our business is dependent in part upon projects that can be cyclical in nature and are subject to risks of delay. the timing of or failure to obtain contracts, delays in awards of, start dates for or completion of projects and the cancellations of projects can result in significant periodic fluctuations in our business and results of operations. many projects involve challenging engineering, permitting, procurement and construction phases that may occur over extended time periods, sometimes over several years. we may encounter difficulties as a result of delays in design, engineering information or materials provided by the customer or a third party, delays or difficulties in equipment and material delivery, schedule changes, delays due to our or our customers failure to 11 table of contents index to financial statements timely obtain permits or rights of way or meet other regulatory requirements or permitting conditions, weather-related delays and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, that can negatively impact our ability to complete the project and in accordance with the original delivery schedule. a failure by us to properly manage and invest in our equipment fleet could also negatively impact project performance and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. larger projects, in particular, present additional performance risks due to the larger and more complex work involved. furthermore, the bidding processes for larger projects can also be longer and more complex, often taking six to nine months. regulatory and permitting delays on larger projects tend to be more challenging and cause more uncertainty as to project timing. in addition, we contract with third-party suppliers and subcontractors to assist us with the completion of contracts. any delay or failure by suppliers or by subcontractors in the completion of their portion of the project may result in delays in the overall progress of the project or may cause us to incur additional costs, or both. we also may encounter project delays due to local opposition, which may include injunctive actions as well as public protests, to the siting of electric power, natural gas or oil transmission lines, solar or wind projects, or other facilities. delays and additional costs may be substantial and, in some cases, we may be required to compensate the customer for such delays. we may not be able to recover all of such costs. in certain circumstances, we guarantee project completion by a scheduled acceptance date or achievement of certain acceptance and performance testing levels. failure to meet any of our schedules or performance requirements could also result in additional costs or penalties, including liquidated damages, and such amounts could exceed expected project profit. in extreme cases, the above-mentioned factors could cause project cancellations, and we may not be able to replace such projects with similar projects or at all. such delays or cancellations may impact our reputation or relationships with customers, adversely affecting our ability to secure new contracts. our customers may change or delay various elements of a project before or after its commencement, or the design, engineering information, equipment or materials that are to be provided by the customer or other parties may be preliminarily deficient or delivered later than required by the project schedule, resulting in additional direct or indirect costs. under these circumstances, we generally negotiate with the customer with respect to the amount of additional time required and the compensation to be paid to us. we are subject to the risk that we may be unable to obtain, through negotiation, arbitration, litigation or otherwise, adequate amounts to compensate us for the additional work or expenses incurred by us due to the above-mentioned delays and additional costs, including as a result of customer-requested change orders or failure by the customer to timely meet its obligations. litigation or arbitration with respect to payment terms under contracts and change orders is generally lengthy and costly and may adversely affect our relationship with our customers or potential customers, and it is often difficult to predict when and for how much the claims will be resolved. a failure to obtain adequate extensions or compensation for these matters could require us to record a reduction to amounts of revenues and gross profit recognized in prior periods under the percentage-of-completion accounting method. any such adjustments could be substantial. we may also be required to invest significant working capital to fund cost overruns while the resolution of claims is pending, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our failure to adequately recover on contract change orders or claims brought by us against customers related to payment terms and costs could materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. we have in the past brought, and may in the future bring, claims against our customers related to, among other things, the payment terms of our contracts and change orders relating to our contracts. these types of claims occur due to, among other things, customer-caused delays or changes in project scope, both of which may result in additional cost, which may or may not be recovered until the claim is resolved. in some instances, these claims can be the subject of lengthy legal proceedings, and it is difficult to accurately predict when they will be fully resolved. a failure to promptly recover on these types of claims could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 12 table of contents index to financial statements regulatory and environmental requirements affecting any of the industries we serve may lead to less demand for our services. because the vast majority of our revenue is derived from a few industries, the regulatory and environmental requirements affecting those industries have a material effect on our business, and increased regulatory and environmental requirements in those industries could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. customers in the industries we serve also face heightened regulatory and environmental requirements and stringent permitting processes that impact their projects, which can result in delays, reductions and cancellations of some of their projects. these regulatory factors have resulted in decreased demand for our services in the past, and they may continue to do so in the future, potentially impacting our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and our ability to grow. our business is labor intensive, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees. our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability is limited by our ability to employ, train and retain the necessary skilled personnel. we may not be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy. for instance, we may experience shortages of qualified journeyman linemen, who are integral to the provision of transmission and distribution services under our electric power infrastructure services segment. the commencement of new, large-scale infrastructure projects or increased demand for infrastructure improvements, as well as the aging electric utility workforce, may also further reduce the pool of skilled workers available to us. in addition, in our oil and gas infrastructure services segment, there is limited availability of experienced supervisors and foremen that can oversee larger diameter pipe projects. a shortage in the supply of these skilled personnel creates competitive hiring markets and may result in increased labor expenses. additionally, if we are unable to hire employees with the requisite skills, we may also be forced to incur significant training expenses. labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues or profitability. our use of fixed price contracts could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we currently generate some of our revenues under fixed price contracts. we also expect to generate a greater portion of our revenues under this type of contract in the future as larger projects, such as electric power and pipeline transmission build-outs and utility-scale solar facilities, become a more significant aspect of our business. we assume risks related to revenue, cost and profitability on fixed-priced contracts. actual revenues and project costs can vary, sometimes substantially, from our original projections due to changes in a variety of factors including: unforeseen circumstances not included in our cost estimates or covered by our contract for which we cannot obtain adequate compensation, including concealed or unknown environmental or geological conditions; changes in the cost of equipment, commodities, materials or labor; unanticipated costs or claims due to customer-caused delays, customer failure to provide required materials or equipment, errors in engineering, specifications or designs, project modifications, or contract termination or suspension and our inability to obtain reimbursement for such costs or recover on such claims; weather conditions; failure to perform and delays in performance by our project owners or their contractors or our suppliers or subcontractors; delays and additional costs associated with obtaining required permits or approvals; 13 table of contents index to financial statements delays and additional costs attributable to challenges and protests of the siting or specifications of certain projects; quality issues, including those requiring rework or replacement; changes in laws or regulations; and general economic conditions and the economic conditions affecting the industries we serve. these factors, along with other risks inherent in performing fixed price contracts may cause actual revenues and gross profits for a project to differ from what we originally estimated and could result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. depending upon the size of a particular project, these variations could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, we may be required to pay liquidated damages under certain of our contracts if we fail to meet schedule or performance requirements, which could harm our reputation and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits. as discussed in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about m arket risk our primary exposure to market risk relates to unfavorable changes in concentration of credit risk, interest rates and currency exchange rates. credit risk. we are subject to concentrations of credit risk related to our cash and cash equivalents and our net receivable position with customers, which includes amounts related to billed and unbilled accounts receivable and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts net of advanced billings with the same customer. substantially all of our cash and cash equivalents are managed by what we believe to be high credit quality financial institutions. in accordance with our investment policies, these institutions are authorized to invest cash and cash equivalents in a diversified portfolio of what we believe to be high-quality investments, which primarily include interest-bearing demand deposits, money market investments and money market mutual funds with original maturities of three months or less. although we do not currently believe the principal amounts of these investments are subject to any material risk of loss, changes in economic conditions could impact the interest income we receive from these investments. in addition, as we grant credit under normal payment terms, generally without collateral, we are subject to potential credit risk related to our customers ability to pay for services provided. this risk may be heightened as a result of the depressed economic and financial market conditions that have existed in recent years. however, we believe the concentration of credit risk related to billed and unbilled receivables and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts is limited because of the diversity of our customers. we perform ongoing credit risk assessments of our customers and financial institutions and in some cases we obtain collateral or other security from our customers. interest rate risk. as of december 31, 2016, we had no derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate risk. as such, we were exposed to earnings and fair value risk due to changes in interest rates with respect to our long-term obligations. as of december 31, 2016, the fair value of our variable rate debt of $352.8 million approximated book value. our weighted average interest rate on our variable rate debt for the year ended december 31, 2016 was 2.1%. the annual effect on our pretax earnings of a hypothetical 50 basis point increase or decrease in variable interest rates would be approximately $1.8 million based on our december 31, 2016 balance of variable rate debt. 83 table of contents index to financial statements foreign currency risk. the u.s. dollar is the functional currency for the majority of our operations, which are primarily located within the united states. the functional currency for our foreign operations, which are primarily located in canada and australia, is typically the currency of the country in which the foreign operating unit is located. accordingly, our financial performance is subject to fluctuation due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. during 2016, revenues from our foreign operations accounted for 20.8% of our consolidated revenues. fluctuations in foreign exchange rates during the year ended december 31, 2016 caused an approximate decrease of $41 million in foreign revenues compared to the year ended december 31, 2015. additionally, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates during the year ended december 31, 2015 caused an approximate decrease of $227 million in foreign revenues compared to the year ended december 31, 2014. we are also subject to foreign currency risk with respect to sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies of our operating units. to minimize the risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we may enter into foreign currency derivative contracts to hedge our foreign currency risk on a cash flow basis. there were no outstanding foreign currency derivative contracts at december 31, 2016. we also have foreign exchange risk related to cash and cash equivalents in foreign banks. based on the balance of cash and cash equivalents in foreign banks of $92.7 million as of december 31, 2016, an assumed 5% adverse change to foreign exchange rates would result in a fair value decline of $4.6 million. fluctuations in fair value are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a separate component of stockholders equity. 84 table of contents index to financial statements