quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 33 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we have included a discussion about market risks under market risk in the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in our annual report to stockholders. this information is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 32 risk factors our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the risks and uncertainties described below. additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operating results are highly dependent upon and fluctuate based upon business and economic conditions and governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry where we or our customers operate. these factors are outside of our control and may significantly affect our profitability. our operating results are highly dependent upon conditions and governmental policies in the agricultural industry, which we cannot control. the agricultural products business can be affected by a number of factors, the 32 table of contents most important of which, for u.s. markets, are weather patterns and field conditions (particularly during periods of traditionally high crop nutrients consumption), quantities of crop nutrients imported to and exported from north america and current and projected grain inventories and prices, which are heavily influenced by u.s. exports and world-wide grain markets. u.s. governmental policies may directly or indirectly influence the number of acres planted, the level of grain inventories, the mix of crops planted or crop prices. international market conditions, which are also outside of our control, may also significantly influence our operating results. the international market for crop nutrients is influenced by such factors as the relative value of the u.s. dollar and its impact upon the cost of importing crop nutrients, foreign agricultural policies, the existence of, or changes in, import or foreign currency exchange barriers in certain foreign markets, changes in the hard currency demands of certain countries and other regulatory policies of foreign governments, as well as the laws and policies of the u.s. affecting foreign trade and investment. among the important policies that can significantly impact our business is the indian government subsidy program for diammonium phosphate fertilizer. under its current program, the indian government places a uniform cap on the selling price of dap to our customers that is below imported and domestic production costs. the indian government then makes additional subsidy payments to the sellers. because the indian government does not make its final determination of the amount of the subsidy until after the sale has been made, we do not know our profitability on sales of dap in india at the time of sale, and we may be required to refund estimated subsidy payments that we have received if the indian government final determination of the subsidy is less than the estimated subsidies that we have received. our crop nutrients and other products are subject to price and demand volatility resulting from periodic imbalances of supply and demand, which may cause our results of operations to fluctuate. historically, the market for crop nutrients has been cyclical, and prices and demand for our products have fluctuated to a significant extent, particularly for phosphates and nitrogen and, to a lesser extent, potash. periods of high demand, increasing profits and high capacity utilization tend to lead to new plant investment and increased production. this growth increases supply until the market is over-saturated, leading to declining prices and declining capacity utilization until the cycle repeats. as a result, crop nutrients prices and volumes have been volatile. this price and volume volatility may cause our results of operations to fluctuate and potentially deteriorate. the price at which we sell our crop nutrients products and our sales volumes could fall in the event of industry oversupply conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in contrast, high prices may lead our customers and farmers to delay purchasing decisions in anticipation of future lower prices, thus impacting our sales volumes. due to reduced market demand and a depressed agricultural economy, we and our predecessors have at various times suspended production at some of our facilities. the extent to which we utilize available capacity at our facilities will cause fluctuations in our results of operations, as we will incur costs for any temporary or permanent shutdowns of our facilities and lower sales tends to lead to higher fixed costs as a percentage of sales. our crop nutrient business is increasingly seasonal, which may result in carrying significant amounts of inventory and seasonal variations in working capital, and our inability to predict future seasonal crop nutrient demand accurately may result in excess inventory or product shortages. the crop nutrient business is seasonal. the strongest demand for our products typically occurs during the spring planting season, with a second period of strong demand following the fall harvest. we and/or our customers generally build inventories during the low demand periods of the year in order to ensure timely product availability during the peak sales seasons. the seasonality of crop nutrient demand results in our sales volumes and net sales typically being the highest during the north american spring season and our working capital requirements typically being the highest just prior to the start of the spring season. our quarterly financial results can vary significantly from one year to the next due to weather-related shifts in planting schedules and purchasing patterns. 33 table of contents if seasonal demand exceeds our projections, our customers may acquire products from our competitors, and our profitability will be negatively impacted. if seasonal demand is less than we expect, we will be left with excess inventory and higher working capital and liquidity requirements. during the fiscal year ended may 31, 2006, we experienced a more pronounced level of seasonality in our business than in prior years. we believe that the more pronounced level of seasonality was due to: high natural gas and raw material prices that affected the selling price of our products which led our domestic customers to delay purchases; and some lessening in our international sales that has historically reduced to some extent the effects on us of the seasonality of north american agriculture. we believe that the lessening of international sales is, to a significant degree, due to china increasing self-sufficiency in phosphate fertilizers as well as ongoing weak farm economic conditions in brazil. important raw materials and energy used in our businesses in the past have been and may in the future be the subject of volatile pricing. in addition, in the event of a disruption to existing transportation or terminaling facilities, alternative transportation and terminaling facilities might not have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our facilities. changes in the price of our raw materials or disruptions to supply could have a material impact on our businesses. natural gas, ammonia and sulfur are key raw materials used in the manufacture of phosphate crop nutrient products. natural gas is used as both a chemical feedstock and a fuel to produce anhydrous ammonia, which is a raw material used in the production of diammonium phosphate (dap) and monoammonium phosphate (map). natural gas is also a significant energy source used in the potash solution mining process. from time to time, our profitability has been and may in the future be impacted by the price and availability of these raw materials and other energy costs. in addition, in the event of a disruption of existing transportation or terminaling facilities for raw materials, alternative transportation and terminaling facilities might not have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our facilities. a significant increase in the price of natural gas, ammonia, sulfur or energy costs that is not recovered through an increase in the price of our related crop nutrients products or an extended interruption in the supply of natural gas, ammonia or sulfur to our production facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to risks associated with our international operations, which could negatively affect our sales to customers in foreign countries as well as our operations and assets in foreign countries. for the year ended may 31, 2006, we derived approximately 70% of our net sales from customers located outside of the united states. as a result, we are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: difficulties and costs associated with complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory environments; increased government ownership and regulation of the economy in the markets we serve; political and economic instability, including the possibility for civil unrest, inflation and adverse economic conditions resulting from governmental attempts to reduce inflation, such as imposition of higher interest rates and wage and price controls; nationalization of properties by foreign governments; 34 table of contents tax rates that may exceed those in the united states and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements; the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls, trade barriers or other restrictions; and the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies, particularly the brazilian real, the canadian dollar and the argentine peso. the occurrence of any of the events above in the markets in which we operate or in other developing markets could jeopardize or limit our ability to transact business in those markets and could adversely affect our revenues and operating results and the value of our assets located outside of the united states. our international assets are located in countries with volatile conditions, which could subject us and our assets to significant risks. mosaic is a global business with substantial assets located outside of the united states and canada. our operations in brazil, argentina, chile, china and india are a fundamental part of our business. volatile economic, political and market conditions in these and other emerging market countries may have a negative impact on our operations, operating results and financial condition. adverse weather conditions, including the impact of potential hurricanes and excess rainfall, have in the past and may in the future adversely affect our operations, particularly our phosphates business, and result in increased costs, deceased production and potential liabilities. adverse weather conditions, including the impact of potential hurricanes and excess rainfall, have in the past and may in the future adversely affect our operations, particularly our phosphates business. we experienced minor physical damage to our facilities in florida and louisiana from the hurricanes in 2004 and 2005. in addition, we paid a civil fine of $0.3 million resulting from releases of phosphoric acid process wastewater at our riverview, florida facility, are involved in a class action lawsuit arising out of the releases, and governmental agencies have asserted claims for natural resource damages. more significantly, water treatment costs, particularly at our florida operations, due to high water balances tend to increase significantly following excess rainfall from hurricanes and other adverse weather. some of our florida facilities continue to have high water levels that may, from time to time, require treatment. the high water balances at phosphate facilities in florida has also resulted in adoption by the florida department of environmental protection of new rules requiring phosphate production facilities to meet more stringent process water management objectives within their phosphogypsum management systems. we are assessing the impact of the new rules; however, compliance with the rule could require us to take additional measures to manage process water, and such measures could potentially have a material effect on our business and financial condition. if additional excess rainfall or hurricanes continue to occur in coming years, the facilities may be required to take additional measures to manage process water and these measures could potentially have a material effect on our business and financial condition. adverse weather may also cause a loss of production due to disruptions in our supply chain. for example, following the impact of hurricane katrina in louisiana in 2005, oil refineries that supply sulfur to us were closed and incoming shipments of ammonia were delayed, disrupting production at our louisiana facilities. our operations are dependent on having received the required permits and approvals from governmental authorities. a decision by a government agency to deny any of our permits and approvals or to impose restrictive conditions on us with respect to these permits and approvals may impair our business and operations. we hold numerous governmental environmental, mining and other permits and approvals authorizing operations at each of our facilities. expansion of our operations also is predicated upon securing the necessary environmental or other permits or approvals. a decision by a government agency to deny or delay issuing a new 35 table of contents or renewed permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations at the affected facility. over the next several years, we and our subsidiaries will be continuing our efforts to obtain permits in support of our anticipated florida mining operations at certain of our properties. in florida, local community participation has become an important factor in the permitting process for mining companies. a denial of these permits or the issuance of permits with cost-prohibitive conditions could prevent us from mining at these properties and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in many cases, as a condition to procuring permits and approvals, we are required to comply with financial assurance regulatory requirements. the purpose of these requirements is to provide comfort to the government that sufficient company funds will be available for the ultimate closure, post-closure care and/or reclamation of our facilities. these financial assurance requirements can be satisfied without the need for any expenditure of corporate funds to the extent our financial statements meet certain balance sheet/income statement criteria, referred to as the financial tests. in the event that we are unable to satisfy these financial tests, we must utilize alternative methods of complying with the financial assurance requirements or could be subject to enforcement proceedings brought by relevant governmental agencies. this may require negotiation of a consent decree that imposes alternative financial assurance or other conditions. alternatively, we may need to provide credit support in the form of surety bonds from insurance companies, letters of credit from banks, or other forms of financial instruments or collateral to satisfy the financial assurance requirements. use of these alternative means of financial assurance imposes additional expense on us. some of them, such as letters of credit, also use a portion of our available liquidity. other alternative means of financial assurance, such as surety bonds, in some cases require collateral and generally require us to obtain a discharge of the bonds or to post additional collateral (typically in the form of cash or letters of credit) at the request of the issuer of the bonds. collateral that is required may be in many forms including letters of credit or other financial instruments that utilize a portion of our available liquidity, or in the form of assets such as real estate, which reduces our flexibility to manage or sell assets. in the future, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass the applicable tests of financial strength, negotiate consent decrees, or obtain letters of credit, surety bonds or other financial instruments on acceptable terms and conditions or at a reasonable cost. it is possible that we will not be able to comply with such regulations in the future or that the costs of compliance could increase, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. currently, because of a change in our corporate structure resulting from the combination, we do not meet the financial responsibility tests under louisiana applicable regulations. after consulting with the louisiana department of environmental quality, we requested an exemption. the exemption would include an alternate financial responsibility test with revised tangible net worth and u.s. asset requirements. our request for an exemption was initially denied in may 2006. we have reopened discussions on the subject with the louisiana department of environmental quality. there can be no assurance that the louisiana department of environmental quality will grant the exemption or that we will be able to meet its terms. if we do not receive an exemption, we may be required to enter into a consent order with the agency or may need to provide credit support, such as surety bonds or letters of credit, to fulfill our financial responsibility obligations in louisiana. some of our competitors have greater resources than we do, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage and adversely affect our sales and profitability. these competitors include state-owned and government subsidized entities in other countries. we compete with a number of producers in north america and throughout the world, including state-owned and government subsidized entities. some of these entities are less highly leveraged than we are, may have greater total resources than we do, may have investment grade bond ratings, and may be less dependent on earnings from crop nutrients sales than we are. in addition, some of these entities may have access to lower cost or government-subsidized natural gas supplies, placing us at a competitive disadvantage. furthermore, governments as owners of some of our competitors may be willing to accept lower prices and profitability on their products in order to 36 table of contents support domestic employment or other political or social goals. to the extent other producers of crop nutrients enjoy competitive advantages or are willing to accept lower profit levels, the price of our products, our sales volumes and our profits may be adversely affected. the environmental regulations to which we are subject, as well as our potential environmental liabilities, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to numerous environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the u.s., canada, china, brazil and other international jurisdictions where we operate, including laws and regulations relating to land reclamation and remediation of hazardous substance releases. for example, the u.s. comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act, or cercla, imposes liability, without regard to fault or to the legality of a party conduct, on certain categories of persons (known as potentially responsible parties ) who are considered to have contributed to the release of hazardous substances into the environment. as a crop nutrient company working with chemicals and other hazardous substances, we will periodically incur liabilities, under cercla and other environmental cleanup laws, with regard to our current or former facilities, adjacent or nearby third party facilities or offsite disposal locations. in addition to liabilities arising out of our current and future operations for which we have ongoing processes to manage compliance with environmental obligations, we are subject to liabilities for past operations at current facilities and in some cases to liabilities for past operations by us, our predecessor companies and subsidiaries that our predecessors have sold at facilities that we and our subsidiaries no longer own or operate. under cercla, or various state analogues, one party may, under certain circumstances, be required to bear more than its proportional share of cleanup costs at a site where it has liability if payments cannot be obtained from other responsible parties. liability under these laws involves inherent uncertainties. violations of environmental, health and safety laws are subject to civil, and, in some cases, criminal sanctions. laws similar to those in the united states may be applicable to international jurisdictions where we operate. in some international jurisdictions, environmental laws change rapidly and it may be difficult for us to determine if we are in compliance with all material environmental laws at any given time. as a result of these uncertainties, we may incur unexpected interruptions to operations, fines, penalties or other reductions in income which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. continued government and public emphasis on environmental issues can be expected to result in increased future investments for environmental controls at ongoing operations, which will be charged against income from future operations. present and future environmental laws and regulations applicable to our operations may require substantial capital expenditures and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting for our fiscal year ended may 31, 2006. the material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting could result in a material error in our financial statements. as discussed more fully in item 9a of part i of this report, we have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. the material weaknesses are: management did not sufficiently monitor the internal control over financial reporting at the phosphates business segment to ensure they were operating effectively. the company had inadequate segregation of duties related to north american computer software applications. the company did not maintain adequate oversight and review of our accounting for income taxes. the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting could result in a material error in our financial statements. a more detailed description of these material weaknesses is included in item 9a, controls and procedures, of this report. 37 table of contents we are implementing a new enterprise resource planning system with additional controls. failure to fully implement the new system in an effective and a timely fashion will delay our ability to fully correct the material weaknesses we have identified in our internal controls. we are implementing a new enterprise resource planning system. the new system includes additional controls that are part of our efforts to remediate the material weakness in our internal controls. failure to fully implement the new system in an effective and a timely fashion will delay our ability to fully correct the material weakness we have identified in our internal controls. in addition, the new system includes implementation of improved business processes that we expect to improve our efficiency and our ability to manage our business, realize synergies from the combination and reduce our costs. failure to fully implement the new system in an effective and timely fashion could adversely affect our implementation of these improved business processes and the achievement of our goals. in some cases, the current business processes that are being replaced or improved will no longer be operational once the new system is implemented, and any failure of the new system to function effectively upon initial implementation could adversely affect our ongoing business processes and efficiency. for example, we will depend on the new system for functions such as order entry, invoicing and logistics, and a failure of the new system to perform these functions effectively could materially adversely affect our sales to customers, receipt of payment for our sales or other matters that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. as of may 31, 2006, we had outstanding indebtedness of approximately $2.6 billion. our indebtedness, which is a significant factor leading to our current non-investment grade credit rating, could have important consequences. for example, it could: make it difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to outstanding indebtedness; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes; make it difficult for us to optimally capitalize and manage the cash flow for our businesses; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and limit our ability to borrow additional funds. in addition, it is possible that we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. the terms of our credit facilities and other agreements governing our indebtedness allow us to incur additional debt subject to certain limitations. if new debt is added to current debt levels, the risks described above could intensify. furthermore, if future debt financing is not available to us when required or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to grow our business, take advantage of business opportunities, respond to competitive pressures or refinance maturing debt, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 38 table of contents we need significant amounts of cash to service our indebtedness. if we are unable to generate a sufficient amount of cash to service our indebtedness, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. we need significant amounts of cash in order to service and repay our indebtedness. our ability to generate cash in the future will be, to a certain extent, subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors that may be beyond our control. if we are not able to generate cash flow from operations in an amount sufficient to enable us to service and repay our indebtedness, we will need to refinance our indebtedness or be in default under the agreements governing our indebtedness. such refinancing may not be available on favorable terms or at all. the inability to service, repay and/or refinance our indebtedness could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. the agreements governing our indebtedness contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business and also require us to meet financial maintenance tests and other covenants. the failure to comply with such tests and covenants could have a material adverse effect on us. the agreements governing our indebtedness contain various covenants, including those that restrict our ability to: borrow money, and guarantee or provide other support for indebtedness of third parties including guarantees to finance purchases of our products; pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock; make monetary acquisitions of new subsidiaries; make investments in entities that we do not control, including joint ventures; fund our offshore business segment from our north american operations; make capital expenditures in excess of certain annual amounts; transact business with cargill except under certain circumstances; engage in transactions, particularly outside of the ordinary course of business, between mosaic global holdings (formerly imc) and its subsidiaries, on the one hand, and us and our other subsidiaries, on the other hand; use assets as security in other transactions; sell assets, other than sales of inventory in the ordinary course of business, except in compliance with specified limits and up to specified dollar amounts, or merge with or into other companies; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and enter into unrelated businesses. these covenants may limit our ability to effectively operate our businesses, including our ability to operate the predecessor businesses of imc and fertilizer businesses of cargill crop nutrition involved in the combination in an integrated manner. in addition, our credit facilities require that we meet certain financial tests, including an interest expense coverage ratio test and a leverage ratio test. the financial tests become more stringent over time pursuant to the terms of the credit agreement. during periods in which product prices or volumes, raw material prices or 39 table of contents availability, or other conditions reflect the adverse impact of cyclical market trends or other factors (including trends and factors disclosed in the risk factors discussed in this item 1a), or when the financial tests become more stringent, we may not be able to comply with the applicable financial covenants. in addition, an event of default would occur under our senior secured bank credit facility unless, prior to november 30, 2007, one of the following occurs: the mosaic global holdings 10.875% senior notes due 2008 have been refinanced on specified terms, repurchased or redeemed; or the company meets a specified financial leverage ratio; or our senior secured credit facility has been fully repaid. a more detailed description of the events summarized above is incorporated by reference to note 13 of our consolidated financial statements included in this report in part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data. there can be no assurance that one of these events will occur prior to november 30, 2007. any failure to comply with the restrictions of our credit facilities or any agreement governing our other indebtedness may result in an event of default under those agreements. such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt, which acceleration may trigger cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions in other debt. in addition, lenders may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to supply us with further funds (including periodic rollovers of existing borrowings). we do not own a controlling equity interest in our non-consolidated companies, some of which are foreign companies, and therefore our operating results and cash flow may be materially affected by how the governing boards and majority owners operate such businesses. there may also be limitations on monetary distributions from these companies that are outside of our control. together, these factors may lower our equity earnings or cash flow from such businesses and negatively impact our results of operations. we hold several ownership interests in fertilizer manufacturing or distribution companies that are not controlled by mosaic, whether through less than majority representation on the applicable governing board or though a minority equity ownership interest in such entities. as these companies are significant to mosaic, their results of operations materially affect our equity earnings. because we do not control these companies either at the board or shareholder level and because local laws in foreign jurisdictions may place restrictions on monetary distributions by these companies, we cannot ensure that these companies will operate efficiently, pay dividends, or generally follow the desires of our management by virtue of our board or shareholder representation. as a result, these companies may contribute significantly less than anticipated to our equity earnings and cash flow, negatively impacting our results of operations and liquidity. strikes or other forms of work stoppage or slowdown could disrupt our business and lead to increased costs. our financial performance is dependent on a reliable and productive work force. a significant portion of our workforce is covered by collective bargaining agreements with unions. unsuccessful contract negotiations or adverse labor relations could result in strikes or slowdowns. any disruptions may decrease our production and sales or impose additional costs to resolve disputes. the risk of adverse labor relations may increase as our profitability increases because labor unions expectations and demands generally rise at those times. 40 table of contents our esterhazy mine has experienced an inflow of water for more than 20 years. we are not insured against the risk of floods and water inflow at that mine and the costs to control the water inflow could increase in future years. the water inflow, risk to employees or remediation costs could also cause us to change our mining process or abandon the mines, which in turn could significantly negatively impact our results of operations. since december 1985, we have experienced an inflow of water into one of our two interconnected potash mines at esterhazy, saskatchewan. in order to control inflow, we have incurred expenditures, certain of which, due to their nature, have been capitalized, while others have been charged to expense. because procedures utilized to control the water inflow have proven successful to date, we will likely continue conventional shaft mining at esterhazy. it is possible that the costs of remedial efforts at esterhazy may increase in future years or that the water inflow, risk to employees or remediation costs may increase to a level which would cause us to change our mining process or abandon the mines. due to the ongoing water inflow problem at esterhazy, underground operations at this facility are currently not insurable for water incursion problems. our colonsay mine is also subject to the risks of inflow of water as a result of our shaft mining operations. deliberate, malicious acts, including terrorism, could damage our facilities, disrupt our operations or injure employees, contractors, customers or the public and result in liability to us. intentional acts of destruction could hinder our sales or production and disrupt our supply chain. our facilities could be damaged or destroyed, reducing our operational production capacity and requiring us to repair or replace our facilities at substantial cost. employees, contractors and the public could suffer substantial physical injury for which we could be liable. governmental authorities may impose security or other requirements that could make our operations more difficult or costly. the consequences of any such actions could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by changing antitrust laws to which we are subject. we are subject to antitrust and competition laws in various countries throughout the world. we cannot predict how these laws or their interpretation, administration and enforcement will change over time. changes in antitrust laws globally, or the interpretation, administration or enforcement thereof, may limit our existing or future operations and growth, or the operations of canpotex and phoschem, which serve as export associations for our potash and phosphates businesses. our competitive position could be adversely affected if we are unable to participate in continuing industry consolidation. most of our products are readily available from a number of competitors, and price and other competition in the fertilizer industry is intense. in addition, fertilizer production facilities and distribution activities frequently benefit from economies of scale. as a result, particularly during pronounced cyclical troughs, the fertilizer industry has a long history of consolidation. mosaic itself is the result of a number of industry consolidations. we expect consolidation among fertilizer producers could continue. our competitive position could suffer to the extent we are not able to expand our own resources either through consolidations, acquisitions, joint ventures or partnerships. in the future, we may not be able to find suitable companies to combine with, assets to purchase or joint venture or partnership opportunities to pursue. even if we are able to locate desirable opportunities, we may not be able to enter into transactions on economically acceptable terms. if we do not successfully participate in continuing industry consolidation, our ability to compete successfully could be adversely affected and result in the loss of customers or an uncompetitive cost structure, which could adversely affect our sales and profitability. our risk management strategy may not be effective. our businesses are affected by fluctuations in market prices for our products, the purchase price of natural gas, ammonia and sulfur consumed in operations, freight and shipping costs, interest rates and foreign currency 41 table of contents exchange rates. we periodically enter into derivatives to mitigate these risks. however, our derivatives strategy may not be successful in minimizing our exposure to these fluctuations. see note 17 of our consolidated financial statements that are included in this report in part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data. our recent closures of several facilities in our florida phosphates operations may cost more than we estimate, result in less benefits than we expect or require us to obtain waivers of financial assurance requirements from governmental regulatory agencies. on may 31, 2006, we closed indefinitely our south pierce and green bay phosphate fertilizer production plants and fort green phosphate mine in central florida. our financial statements include charges reflecting our estimates of the costs of closure. like other estimates of events that will occur in the future, our estimates are based upon judgments about uncertain future events that may prove to be different than our estimates. these differences could result in the need to revise our estimates, affecting our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. in addition, we anticipate that the closures of these facilities will reduce our raw material and operating costs, reduce our capital expenditures and improve our cash flows. a failure to substantially realize our expectations about the benefits of the closures could materially affect our future results of operations. in addition, the recent closures could require us to obtain waivers of financial assurance requirements from governmental regulatory agencies, and any failure to obtain any required waivers or conditions imposed by the regulatory agencies in connection with any such waivers could adversely affect the benefits we expect from the closures and our results of operations or financial condition. cargill status as a significant stockholder and its representation on our board of directors may create conflicts of interest with our other stockholders and could cause us to take actions that our other stockholders do not support. cargill owns 65.3% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. in addition, seven cargill nominees are members of our board of directors. accordingly, cargill effectively controls our strategic direction and significant corporate transactions, and its interests in these matters may conflict with the interests of other stockholders of mosaic. as a result, cargill could cause us to take actions that our other stockholders do not support. cargill significant ownership interest in mosaic and our classified board of directors and other anti-takeover provisions could deter an acquisition proposal for mosaic that other stockholders may consider favorable. as the owner of a majority of the shares of our common stock, a third party will not be able to acquire control of us without cargill consent because cargill could vote its shares of our common stock against any takeover proposal submitted for stockholder approval. in addition, we have a classified board of directors and other takeover defenses in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. cargill ownership interest in us and these other anti-takeover provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals for us and could delay or prevent a change of control of mosaic. these deterrents could make it very difficult for non-cargill holders to remove or replace members of our board of directors or management, which could be detrimental to our other stockholders. our stockholders may be adversely affected by the expiration of the lockup and standstill restrictions in our investor rights agreement with cargill, which would enable cargill to, among other things, transfer all or a significant percentage of its interest in our common stock to a third party, increase its ownership percentage of the our common stock above 65.3% or seek additional representation on our board of directors, any of which could have an impact on the price of our common stock. standstill provisions in our investor rights agreement with cargill restrict cargill from acquiring additional shares of our common stock from our public stockholders and taking other specified actions as a stockholder of 42 table of contents mosaic. these restrictions will expire on october 22, 2008. following the expiration of the standstill period, cargill will be free to increase its ownership interest in our common stock. purchases of additional shares of our common stock by cargill could result in lower trading volumes for our common stock and make it difficult for stockholders to sell shares of our common stock. in addition, the investor rights agreement prohibits cargill from transferring or selling its shares of mosaic common stock until october 22, 2007. once this transfer restriction is terminated, cargill will be permitted to sell its shares of our common stock. cargill sale or transfer of a significant number of shares of our common stock could create a decline in the price of our common stock. furthermore, if cargill sales or transfers were made to a single buyer or group of buyers, it could result in a third party acquiring effective control of mosaic. until the end of the standstill period, the investor rights agreement also requires that cargill vote its shares of mosaic common stock for the slate of director nominees recommended by the mosaic board of directors, and that cargill cause its nominees on the mosaic board of directors to recommend the four directors designated by the former representatives of imc. after the standstill period, cargill will be free to seek to increase its representation on the mosaic board of directors above seven members. this action could further increase cargill control over mosaic and deter or delay an acquisition of mosaic thereby having a negative impact on the price of our common stock. we may experience difficulty in establishing a separate brand identity from cargill, which could negatively affect our sales and operating results. our results of operations will be impacted by our ability to establish our own brand identity and our ability to ensure that our products are recognized in the marketplace. to that end, cargill has licensed its brand to mosaic on a royalty-free basis until october 2009 in conjunction with the sale of fertilizers, including in certain international jurisdictions where cargill traditionally attracted premiums from customers. it is important for our management to develop a brand identity for our products and services separate from the cargill brand while the license remains in effect. our failure to do so could result in lower sales and negatively affect our revenues and operating results if cargill did not extend the license. there can be no assurance that cargill would extend the license if we requested it to do so. our success will depend on key personnel, the loss of whom could harm our businesses. we believe our continued success depends on the collective abilities and efforts of our senior management. the loss of one or more key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. additionally, if we are unable to find, hire and retain needed key personnel in the future, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. a shortage of railcars, barges and ships for carrying our products and the raw materials we use in our business could result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of production or sales, and higher transportation or equipment costs. we rely heavily upon truck, rail, barge and ocean freight transportation to obtain the raw materials we need and to deliver our products to our customers. in addition, the cost of transportation is an important part of the final sale price of our products. finding affordable and dependable transportation is important in obtaining our raw materials and to supply our customers. higher costs for these transportation services or an interruption or slowdown due to factors including high demand, labor disputes, adverse weather or other environmental events, or changes to rail, barge or ocean freight systems, could negatively affect our ability to produce our products or deliver them to our customers, which could affect our performance and results of operations. strong demand for grain and other products and a strong world economy increase the demand for and reduce the availability of transportation, both domestically and internationally. shortages of railcars, barges and ocean transport for carrying product and increased transit time may result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of sales and 43 table of contents higher equipment and transportation costs. the shipping industry has a shortage of ships and the substantial time frame needed to build new ships prevents rapid market response. delays and missed shipments due to transportation shortages, including vessels, barges, railcars and trucks, could result in customer dissatisfaction or loss of sales potential, which could negatively affect our performance and results of operations. we extend trade credit to our customers and guarantee the financing that some of our customers use to purchase our products. our results of operations may be adversely affected if these customers are unable to repay the trade credit from us or their financing from their banks. we extend trade credit to our customers in the united states and throughout the world, in some cases for extended periods of time. in brazil, where there are fewer third-party financing sources available to farmers, we also have several programs under which we guarantee customers financing from financial institutions that they use to purchase our products. as our exposure to longer trade credit extended throughout the world and use of guarantees in brazil increases, we will be increasingly exposed to the risk that some of our customers will not pay us or the amounts we have guaranteed, and we become increasingly exposed to risk due to weather and crop growing conditions, fluctuations in commodity prices or foreign currencies, and other factors that influence the price, supply and demand for agricultural commodities. significant defaults by our customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our current corporate organizational structure results in a high effective tax rate and does not optimize our ability to utilize cash generated by our profitable canadian potash operations. we generate the largest portion of our net income and cash flow from our successful canadian potash business. in contrast, the mosaic company and mosaic global holdings inc., which are the primary obligors on most of our outstanding indebtedness, are organized under the laws of the state of delaware in the united states. we historically have not obtained a deduction for canadian income tax purposes for the interest expense of the mosaic company or mosaic global holdings inc., nor are we permitted to deduct any losses in the rest of our businesses for purposes of canadian income taxes. as a result, we have incurred a high reported effective tax rate on our pre-tax income. moreover, because of potential taxes or tax withholding, it may be economically unattractive to distribute or transfer cash generated by our canadian potash operations to the mosaic company or mosaic global holdings inc. in order to make payments on our indebtedness or for other corporate purposes. we may not be readily able to restructure or take other actions that would reduce our high effective tax rate or improve our ability to use cash generated by our canadian potash operations, or might incur significant costs in order to achieve a more efficient structure. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we have included a discussion about market risks under market risk in the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations that is included in this report in part ii, item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation. this information is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 27 risk factors our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the risks and uncertainties described below. additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operating results are highly dependent upon and fluctuate based upon business and economic conditions and governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry where we or our customers operate. these factors are outside of our control and may significantly affect our profitability. our operating results are highly dependent upon business and economic conditions and governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, which we cannot control. the agricultural products business can be affected 27 table of contents by a number of factors, the most important of which, for u.s. markets, are weather patterns and field conditions (particularly during periods of traditionally high crop nutrients consumption), quantities of crop nutrients imported to and exported from north america and current and projected grain inventories and prices, which are heavily influenced by u.s. exports and world-wide grain markets. u.s. governmental policies may directly or indirectly influence the number of acres planted, the level of grain inventories, the mix of crops planted or crop prices. international market conditions, which are also outside of our control, may also significantly influence our operating results. the international market for crop nutrients is influenced by such factors as the relative value of the u.s. dollar and its impact upon the cost of importing crop nutrients, foreign agricultural policies, the existence of, or changes in, import or foreign currency exchange barriers in certain foreign markets, changes in the hard currency demands of certain countries and other regulatory policies of foreign governments, as well as the laws and policies of the united states affecting foreign trade and investment. among the important policies that can significantly impact our business is the indian government subsidy program for diammonium phosphate fertilizer ( dap ). under its current program, the indian government places a uniform cap on the selling price of dap to our offshore segment customers that is below imported and domestic production costs. the indian government then makes subsidy payments to us. because the indian government does not make its final determination of the amount of the subsidy until after the sale and initial estimated subsidy payments have been made, we estimate our profitability on sales of dap by our offshore segment in india at the time of sale based on most recent market prices for dap. we may be required to refund estimated subsidy payments that we have received if the indian government final determination of the subsidy is less than the initial subsidies that we have received. our crop nutrients and other products are subject to price and demand volatility resulting from periodic imbalances of supply and demand, which may cause our results of operations to fluctuate. historically, the market for crop nutrients has been cyclical, and prices and demand for our products have fluctuated to a significant extent, particularly for phosphates and nitrogen and, to a lesser extent, potash. periods of high demand, increasing profits and high capacity utilization tend to lead to new plant investment and increased production. this growth increases supply until the market is over-saturated, leading to declining prices and declining capacity utilization until the cycle repeats. as a result, crop nutrients prices and volumes have been volatile. this price and volume volatility may cause our results of operations to fluctuate and potentially deteriorate. the price at which we sell our crop nutrients products and our sales volumes could fall in the event of industry oversupply conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in contrast, high prices may lead our customers and farmers to delay purchasing decisions in anticipation of future lower prices, thus impacting our sales volumes. due to reduced market demand, depressed agricultural economic conditions and other factors, we and our predecessors have at various times suspended or reduced production at some of our facilities. the extent to which we utilize available capacity at our facilities will cause fluctuations in our results of operations, as we will incur costs for any temporary or permanent shutdowns of our facilities and lower sales tends to lead to higher fixed costs as a percentage of sales. our crop nutrient business is seasonal, which may result in carrying significant amounts of inventory and seasonal variations in working capital, and our inability to predict future seasonal crop nutrient demand accurately may result in excess inventory or product shortages. the crop nutrient business is seasonal. the strongest demand for our products typically occurs during the spring planting season, with a second period of strong demand following the fall harvest. we and/or our customers generally build inventories during the low demand periods of the year in order to ensure timely product availability during the peak sales seasons. the seasonality of crop nutrient demand results in our sales volumes and net sales typically being the highest during the north american spring season and our working capital 28 table of contents requirements typically being the highest just prior to the start of the spring season. our quarterly financial results can vary significantly from one year to the next due to weather-related shifts in planting schedules and purchasing patterns. if seasonal demand exceeds our projections, we will not have enough product and our customers may acquire products from our competitors, which would negatively impact our profitability. if seasonal demand is less than we expect, we will be left with excess inventory and higher working capital and liquidity requirements. the degree of seasonality of our business can change significantly from year to year due to conditions in the agricultural industry and other factors. for example, in fiscal 2006, we experienced a more pronounced level of seasonality in our business than in prior years. we believe that the more pronounced level of seasonality was due to: high natural gas and raw material prices that increased the selling price of our products which led our domestic customers to delay purchases; and some lessening in our international sales that has historically reduced to some extent the effects on us of the seasonality of north american agriculture. we believe that the lessening of international sales was, to a significant degree, due to china increasing self-sufficiency in phosphate fertilizers as well as ongoing weak farm economic conditions in brazil. important raw materials and energy used in our businesses in the past have been and may in the future be the subject of volatile pricing. changes in the price of our raw materials could have a material impact on our businesses. natural gas, ammonia and sulfur are key raw materials used in the manufacture of phosphate crop nutrient products. natural gas is used as both a chemical feedstock and a fuel to produce anhydrous ammonia, which is a raw material used in the production of dap and monoammonium phosphate ( map ). natural gas is also a significant energy source used in the potash solution mining process. from time to time, our profitability has been and may in the future be impacted by the price and availability of these raw materials and other energy costs. because our products are commodity-like, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass through increased costs to our customers. a significant increase in the price of natural gas, ammonia, sulfur or energy costs that is not recovered through an increase in the price of our related crop nutrients products could have a material impact on our business. in the event of a disruption to existing transportation or terminaling facilities for raw materials, alternative transportation and terminaling facilities might not have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our facilities. in the event of a disruption of existing transportation or terminaling facilities for raw materials, alternative transportation and terminaling facilities might not have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our facilities. an extended interruption in the supply of natural gas, ammonia or sulfur to our production facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to risks associated with our international sales and operations, which could negatively affect our sales to customers in foreign countries as well as our operations and assets in foreign countries. for the fiscal year ended may 31, 2007, we derived approximately 67% of our net sales from customers located outside of the united states. as a result, we are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: difficulties and costs associated with complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; 29 table of contents unexpected changes in regulatory environments; increased government ownership and regulation of the economy in the markets we serve; political and economic instability, including the possibility for civil unrest, inflation and adverse economic conditions resulting from governmental attempts to reduce inflation, such as imposition of higher interest rates and wage and price controls; nationalization of properties by foreign governments; tax rates that may exceed those in the united states and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements; the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls, trade barriers or other restrictions; and currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies, particularly the brazilian real, the canadian dollar and the argentine peso. the occurrence of any of the above in the markets in which we operate or in other developing markets could jeopardize or limit our ability to transact business in those markets and could adversely affect our revenues and operating results and the value of our assets located outside of the united states. our international assets are located in countries with volatile conditions, which could subject us and our assets to significant risks. we are a global business with substantial assets located outside of the united states and canada. our operations in brazil, argentina, chile, china and india are a fundamental part of our business. volatile economic, political and market conditions in these and other emerging market countries may have a negative impact on our operations, operating results and financial condition. adverse weather conditions, including the impact of potential hurricanes and excess rainfall, have in the past, and may, in the future, adversely affect our operations, particularly our phosphates business, and result in increased costs, decreased production and potential liabilities. adverse weather conditions, including the impact of potential hurricanes and excess rainfall, have in the past and may in the future adversely affect our operations, particularly our phosphates business. we experienced minor physical damage to our facilities in florida and louisiana from the hurricanes in 2004 and 2005. in addition, we paid a civil fine of $0.3 million resulting from a release during hurricane frances of phosphoric acid process wastewater at our riverview, florida facility. we are involved in a class action lawsuit arising out of the release and governmental agencies have asserted claims for natural resource damages. more significantly, water treatment costs, particularly at our florida operations, due to high water balances tend to increase significantly following excess rainfall from hurricanes and other adverse weather. some of our florida facilities continue to have high water levels that may, from time to time, require treatment. the high water balances at phosphate facilities in florida have also led the florida department of environmental protection to adopt new rules requiring phosphate production facilities to meet more stringent process water management objectives for phosphogypsum management systems. we are assessing the impact of the new rules; however, compliance with the rules could require us to take additional measures to manage process water, and such measures could potentially have a material effect on our business and financial condition. if additional excess rainfall or hurricanes continue to occur in coming years, the facilities may be required to take additional measures to manage process water and these measures could potentially have a material effect on our business and financial condition. adverse weather may also cause a loss of production due to disruptions in our supply chain. for example, following the impact of hurricane katrina in louisiana in 2005, oil refineries that supply sulfur to us were closed and incoming shipments of ammonia were delayed, disrupting production at our louisiana facilities. 30 table of contents our operations are dependent on having received the required permits and approvals from governmental authorities. a decision by a government agency to deny any of our permits and approvals or to impose restrictive conditions on us with respect to these permits and approvals may impair our business and operations. we hold numerous governmental environmental, mining and other permits and approvals authorizing operations at each of our facilities. expansion of our operations also is predicated upon securing the necessary environmental or other permits or approvals. a decision by a government agency to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations at the affected facility. over the next several years, we and our subsidiaries will be continuing our efforts to obtain permits in support of our anticipated florida mining operations at certain of our properties. in florida, local community participation has become an important factor in the permitting process for mining companies. a denial of these permits or the issuance of permits with cost-prohibitive conditions could prevent us from mining at these properties and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in many cases, as a condition to procuring or maintaining permits and approvals or otherwise, we are required to comply with financial assurance regulatory requirements. the purpose of these requirements is to provide comfort to the government that sufficient funds will be available for the ultimate closure, post-closure care and/or reclamation of our facilities. these financial assurance requirements can be satisfied without the need for any expenditure of corporate funds to the extent our financial statements meet certain balance sheet/income statement criteria, referred to as the financial tests. in the event that we are unable to satisfy these financial tests, we must utilize alternative methods of complying with the financial assurance requirements or could be subject to enforcement proceedings brought by relevant governmental agencies. potential alternative methods of compliance include negotiating a consent decree that imposes alternative financial assurance or other conditions or, alternatively, providing credit support in the form of cash escrows, surety bonds from insurance companies, letters of credit from banks, or other forms of financial instruments or collateral to satisfy the financial assurance requirements. use of these alternative means of financial assurance imposes additional expense on us. some of them, such as letters of credit, also use a portion of our available liquidity. other alternative means of financial assurance, such as surety bonds, may in some cases require collateral and generally require us to obtain a discharge of the bonds or to post additional collateral (typically in the form of cash or letters of credit) at the request of the issuer of the bonds. collateral that is required may be in many forms including letters of credit or other financial instruments that utilize a portion of our available liquidity, or in the form of assets such as real estate, which reduces our flexibility to manage or sell assets. in the future, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass the applicable tests of financial strength, negotiate consent decrees, establish escrow accounts or obtain letters of credit, surety bonds or other financial instruments on acceptable terms and conditions or at a reasonable cost. it is possible that we will not be able to comply with such regulations in the future or that the costs of compliance could increase, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. currently, because of a change in our corporate structure resulting from the business combination between imc global inc. and cargill crop nutrition, we do not meet the financial responsibility tests under louisiana applicable regulations. after consulting with the louisiana department of environmental quality, we requested an exemption from its financial assurance requirements seeking an alternate financial responsibility test with revised tangible net worth and u.s. asset requirements. our request for an exemption was initially denied in may 2006. we continue to pursue discussions on the subject with the louisiana department of environmental quality. there can be no assurance that the louisiana department of environmental quality will grant the exemption or that we will be able to meet its terms. if we do not receive an exemption, we may be required to enter into a consent order with the agency or may need to provide credit support, such as surety bonds or letters of credit, to fulfill our financial responsibility obligations in louisiana. 31 table of contents some of our competitors have greater resources than we do which may place us at a competitive disadvantage and adversely affect our sales and profitability. these competitors include state-owned and government-subsidized entities in other countries. we compete with a number of producers in north america and throughout the world, including state-owned and government-subsidized entities. some of these entities are less highly leveraged than we are, may have greater total resources than we do, may have investment grade bond ratings, and may be less dependent on earnings from crop nutrients sales than we are. in addition, some of these entities may have access to lower cost or government-subsidized natural gas supplies, placing us at a competitive disadvantage. furthermore, governments as owners of some of our competitors may be willing to accept lower prices and profitability on their products in order to support domestic employment or other political or social goals. to the extent other producers of crop nutrients enjoy competitive advantages or are willing to accept lower profit levels, the price of our products, our sales volumes and our profits may be adversely affected. the environmental regulations to which we are subject, as well as our potential environmental liabilities, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to numerous environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the u.s., canada, china, brazil and other international jurisdictions where we operate, including laws and regulations relating to land reclamation, discharges to air and water and remediation of hazardous substance releases. for example, the u.s. comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act, or cercla, imposes liability, without regard to fault or to the legality of a party conduct, on certain categories of persons, including current and former owners and operators of a site and parties who are considered to have contributed to the release of hazardous substances into the environment. under cercla, or various u.s. state analogs, one party may, under certain circumstances, be required to bear more than its proportional share of cleanup costs at a site where it has liability if payments cannot be obtained from other responsible parties. similarly, regulations related to the satisfaction of various u.s. financial assurance requirements for mining companies are the subject of significant discussion at the federal and state levels, including florida and louisiana. as a crop nutrient company working with chemicals and other hazardous substances, we will periodically incur liabilities and cleanup costs, under cercla and other environmental laws, with regard to our current or former facilities, adjacent or nearby third party facilities or offsite disposal locations. in addition, we are subject to liabilities for past operations at current facilities and in some cases to liabilities for past operations by us, our predecessor companies and subsidiaries that our predecessors have sold at facilities that we and our subsidiaries no longer own or operate. liabilities under these and other environmental health and safety laws involve inherent uncertainties. violations of environmental, health and safety laws are subject to civil, and, in some cases, criminal sanctions. in addition, laws similar to those in the united states may be applicable in international jurisdictions where we operate. in some international jurisdictions, environmental laws change frequently and it may be difficult for us to determine if we are in compliance with all material environmental laws at any given time. failure to meet available financial tests to satisfy financial assurance requirements could result in the need for us to provide financial support through other approved mechanisms, such as letters of credit, surety bonds or cash escrows, which we may not be able to obtain, or could result in the necessity of entering into a consent agreement with applicable regulatory agencies. as a result of liabilities under and violations of environmental laws and related uncertainties, we may incur unexpected interruptions to operations, fines, penalties or other reductions in income, third-party claims for property damage or personal injury or remedial or other costs which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. continued government and public emphasis on environmental issues can be expected to result in increased future investments for environmental controls at ongoing operations, which will be charged against income from future operations. compliance with present and future environmental laws and regulations applicable to our operations may require substantial capital expenditures and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 32 table of contents we have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting for our fiscal year ended may 31, 2007. the material weakness in internal control over financial reporting could result in a material error in our financial statements or could result in our inability to file our reports under the securities exchange act of 1934 within the filing period specified in the sec rules and forms. we have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. the material weakness is that we have ineffective controls over our accounting for income taxes. the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could result in a material error in our financial statements or in our inability to file our reports under the securities exchange act of 1934 within the filing period specified in the sec rules and forms. a more detailed description of this material weakness is incorporated by reference in this report in part ii, item 9a, controls and procedures. we have implemented a new enterprise resource planning system. across our north american operations short term implementation and transitional issues with our new enterprise resource planning system have affected and continue to affect various matters, including filings with the sec, our selling, general and administrative expenses and our realization of the increased efficiencies we expect to realize from the new system. we may also identify in the future additional issues arising out of the implementation of our new enterprise resource planning system. we are stabilizing a new enterprise resource planning system, or erp system, which went live on october 2, 2006. the new system includes implementation of business processes that we expect to improve our ability to manage our business, to increase our efficiencies and to reduce our overall costs. we depend on the new system for a variety of important functions, such as order entry, invoicing, accounts receivable, accounts payable, financial consolidation, logistics, and internal and external financial and management reporting matters. the implementation of the erp system was also part of our remediation plan related to prior material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of may 31, 2006 that we reported in part ii, item 9a, of our annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended may 31, 2006. a discussion of our remediation efforts is included under remediation of previously reported material weaknesses in our annual report to stockholders. this information is incorporated by reference in part ii, item 9a, controls and procedures in this report. as a result of challenges and transitional issues associated with implementation of our new erp system: we were unable to file this report within the prescribed 60-day filing period because of implementation and transitional issues associated with the erp system along with a delay in the preparation of the company provision for income taxes and related disclosures in this report. we were unable to file our quarterly report on form 10-q for the fiscal quarter ended november 30, 2006 within the prescribed 40-day filing period because of the implementation of the erp system, which necessitated additional time to accurately complete our quarterly financial consolidation process and to prepare the related information required to be included in it. until the erp system has been effectively stabilized there can be no assurance that similar delays in filing reports required under the securities exchange act of 1934 will not occur in the future. we do not expect to be able to produce certain condensed consolidating financial information required to file a registration statement with the sec relating to the new senior notes we issued in our december 2006 refinancing until at least early calendar 2008. as a result, we expect to incur additional interest expense with respect to the new senior notes until we are able to file such a registration statement. we have included a discussion of our obligations to file a registration statement relating to the new senior notes and the costs of delaying the filing of a registration statement in note 14 of our consolidated financial statements that are incorporated by reference in this report in part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data. we will not fully realize the benefits of the improved business processes that we expect from the erp system until the system is fully stabilized. 33 table of contents we have incurred additional selling, general and administrative expenses in implementing and stabilizing the erp system. until the erp system is fully stabilized, we expect to continue to incur additional selling, general and administrative expenses to stabilize the system, and there can be no assurance that other issues relating to the erp system will not occur or be identified. our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. as of may 31, 2007, the outstanding principal amount of our indebtedness was $2.4 billion. our level of indebtedness could have important consequences. for example, it could: make it difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to outstanding indebtedness; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes; make it difficult for us to optimally capitalize and manage the cash flow for our businesses; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate; place us at a disadvantage to our competitors that have less debt; limit our ability to borrow money or sell stock (other than the common stock of mosaic) to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and debt service requirements and other financing needs. in addition, it is possible that we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. the terms of our credit facilities and other agreements governing our indebtedness allow us to incur additional debt subject to certain limitations. if new debt is added to current debt levels, the risks described above could intensify. furthermore, if future debt financing is not available to us when required or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to grow our business, take advantage of business opportunities, respond to competitive pressures or refinance maturing debt, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. we need significant amounts of cash to service our indebtedness. if we are unable to generate a sufficient amount of cash to service our indebtedness, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. we need significant amounts of cash in order to service and repay our indebtedness. our ability to generate cash in the future will be, to a certain extent, subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors that may be beyond our control. if we are not able to generate cash flow from operations in an amount sufficient to enable us to service and repay our indebtedness, we will need to refinance our indebtedness or be in default under the agreements governing our indebtedness. such refinancing may not be available on favorable terms or at all. the inability to service, repay and/or refinance our indebtedness could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. 34 table of contents the agreements governing our indebtedness contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business and also require us to meet financial maintenance tests and other covenants. the failure to comply with such tests and covenants could have a material adverse effect on us. the agreements governing our indebtedness contain various covenants, including those that restrict our ability to: borrow money, issue specified types of preferred stock or guarantee or provide other support for indebtedness of third parties, including guarantees to finance purchases of our products; pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock; make acquisitions of new subsidiaries; make investments in or loans to entities that we do not control, including joint ventures; fund our offshore business segment from our north american operations; make capital expenditures in excess of certain annual amounts; transact business with cargill except under certain circumstances; transfer our principal properties, stock of our subsidiaries and intercompany indebtedness to mosaic global holdings inc. and its subsidiaries (which primarily include our subsidiaries that mine and produce potash) from the mosaic company and its other subsidiaries; use assets as security in other transactions; sell assets, other than sales of inventory in the ordinary course of business, except in compliance with specified limits and up to specified dollar amounts, unless we use the net proceeds to repay indebtedness or reinvest in replacement assets; merge with or into other companies; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; enter into unrelated businesses; prepay indebtedness; and enter into speculative swaps, derivatives or similar transactions. in general, the covenants also require us to offer to purchase, at 101% of the outstanding principal amount, our 7.375% senior notes due 2014 and 7.625% senior notes due 2016 in the event of a change of control of the mosaic company followed by a decline in the ratings assigned to such notes by credit rating agencies. a change of control of the mosaic company is a default under our senior secured bank credit facilities these covenants may limit our ability to effectively operate our business. in addition, our senior secured bank credit facilities require that we meet certain financial tests, including an interest expense coverage ratio test and a leverage ratio test. these financial tests become more stringent over time. during periods in which product prices or volumes, raw material prices or availability, or other conditions reflect the adverse impact of cyclical market trends or other factors, or when the financial tests become more stringent, we may not be able to comply with the applicable financial covenants. 35 table of contents any failure to comply with the restrictions of our credit facilities or any agreement governing our other indebtedness may result in an event of default under those agreements. such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt, which acceleration may trigger cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions in other debt. our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments, either upon maturity or, if accelerated, upon an event of default. if, when required, we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under, or amend the covenants contained in, our amended and restated credit agreement, or if a default otherwise occurs, the lenders under our amended and restated credit facilities could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans, declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable, institute foreclosure proceedings against those assets that secure the borrowings under our amended and restated credit facilities and prevent us from making payments on the notes. any such actions could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation, and we cannot provide any assurance that we could repay our obligations in such an event. we do not own a controlling equity interest in our non-consolidated companies, some of which are foreign companies, and therefore our operating results and cash flow may be materially affected by how the governing boards and majority owners operate such businesses. there may also be limitations on monetary distributions from these companies that are outside of our control. together, these factors may lower our equity earnings or cash flow from such businesses and negatively impact our results of operations. we hold several minority ownership interests in fertilizer manufacturing or distribution companies that are not controlled by us. as these companies are significant to us, their results of operations materially affect our equity earnings. because we do not control these companies either at the board or stockholder levels and because local laws in foreign jurisdictions and contractual obligations may place restrictions on monetary distributions by these companies, we cannot ensure that these companies will operate efficiently, pay dividends, or generally follow the desires of our management by virtue of our board or stockholder representation. as a result, these companies may contribute significantly less than anticipated to our equity earnings and cash flow, negatively impacting our results of operations and liquidity. strikes or other forms of work stoppage or slowdown could disrupt our business and lead to increased costs. our financial performance is dependent on a reliable and productive work force. a significant portion of our workforce is covered by collective bargaining agreements with unions. unsuccessful contract negotiations or adverse labor relations could result in strikes or slowdowns. any disruptions may decrease our production and sales or impose additional costs to resolve disputes. the risk of adverse labor relations may increase as our profitability increases because labor unions expectations and demands generally rise at those times. accidents occurring in the course of our operating activities could result in significant liabilities, interruptions or shutdowns of facilities or the need for significant safety or other expenditures. we engage in mining and industrial activities that can result in serious accidents. mining, in particular, can be a dangerous activity. if our safety procedures are not effective, we could be subject to liabilities arising out of personal injuries or death, our operations could be interrupted and we might have to shut down or abandon affected facilities. accidents could cause us to expend significant amounts to remediate safety issues or to repair damaged facilities. for example: our esterhazy mine has had an inflow of brine for more than 20 years, and in late 2006 into early 2007 experienced a significant additional inflow in a mined out area near the original inflows. the esterhazy mine is not insured against the risk of floods and water inflows and the 36 table of contents costs to control the brine inflows could increase in future years. the brine inflows, risk to employees or remediation costs could also cause us to change our mining process or abandon this mine, which in turn could significantly negatively impact our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources. since december 1985, we have had inflows of salt saturated brine into our two interconnected potash mines at esterhazy, saskatchewan. over the past century, several potash mines experiencing water inflow problems have flooded. one of our competitors in russia abandoned one of its mines in late 2006 due to significant water inflow problems. in order to control brine inflows at esterhazy, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, expenditures, certain of which due to their nature have been capitalized, while others have been charged to expense. in late 2006, we identified a new salt saturated brine inflow located approximately 7,500 feet from our existing brine inflow management area in a mined out area at our esterhazy, saskatchewan potash mine. initial data suggested that the new inflow was at the rate of 20,000 to 25,000 gallons per minute, which was significantly greater than highest inflow rates that we had successfully managed (approximately 10,000 to 15,000 gallons per minute) at the esterhazy mine since 1985. without abatement, and assuming our initial estimates to be accurate, we estimated that we had storage capacity to handle the new brine inflow for several months before adversely affecting production at the esterhazy mine. following the initiation of our grouting efforts, we estimate that the brine inflow has declined to approximately 4,000 gallons per minute, and we are pumping brine out of the esterhazy mine at a rate in excess of 7,000 gallons per minute. see potash net sales and gross margin in our management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, which is incorporated herein by reference to part ii, item 7 of this report, for a discussion of costs and other information relating to the new brine inflow. inflow rate measurements reflect an estimate as of a particular point in time, and depending on when tests are conducted, rates can fluctuate up or down. there can be no assurance that: the pumping, grouting and other measures that we use to mitigate the inflows at the esterhazy mine will continue to be successful in mitigating the inflows; our estimates of the volumes of the brine inflow or storage capacity for brine at the esterhazy mine are accurate; the volumes of the brine inflows will not fluctuate from time to time, the rate of the brine inflows will not be greater than our current assumptions and that any such fluctuations or increases could be material; or the expenditures to control the inflows will be consistent with our current estimates. it is possible that the costs of remedial efforts at esterhazy may further increase beyond our current estimates in the future and that such an increase could be material, or, in the extreme scenario, that the water inflows, risk to employees or remediation costs may increase to a level which would cause us to change our mining process or abandon the mine. due to the ongoing brine inflow problem at esterhazy, underground operations at this facility are currently not insurable for water incursion problems. our mine at colonsay, saskatchewan, is also subject to the risks of inflow of water as a result of our shaft mining operations. 37 table of contents we experienced a fire at our esterhazy mine in 2006. if our emergency procedures had not been successful, we might have had significant injuries or deaths. mine operations were halted while we investigated the origin of the fire. on january 29, 2006, we experienced a fire at our esterhazy mine. at the time of the fire, there were 72 mine workers underground. these mine workers were safely evacuated on january 30, 2006. moreover, we halted operations at our esterhazy mine during our investigation of the origin of the fire for over a week. any failure of our safety procedures in the future could result in serious injuries or death, or lengthier shutdowns, which could result in significant liabilities and/or impact on the financial performance of our potash business, including a possible material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. any fire at our shaft mines at colonsay, saskatchewan and carlsbad, new mexico, could have a similar effect on us. we handle significant quantities of ammonia at some of our facilities. if our safety procedures are not effective, an accident involving our ammonia operations could result in serious injuries or death, or result in the shutdown of our facilities. we produce ammonia at our faustina, louisiana phosphate concentrates plant, and use ammonia in significant quantities at all of our florida and louisiana phosphates concentrates plants. saskferco also produces ammonia. for our florida phosphates concentrates plants, ammonia is received at terminals in tampa and transported by means of pipelines to our facilities. our ammonia is generally stored and transported at high pressures. an accident could occur that could result in serious injuries or death, or the evacuation of areas near an accident. an accident could also result in property damage or the shutdown of our florida or louisiana phosphates concentrates plants, the ammonia terminals or pipelines serving those plants, saskferco facilities or our other ammonia storage and handling facilities. as a result, an accident involving ammonia could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we also use or produce other hazardous or volatile chemicals at some of our facilities. if our safety procedures are not effective, an accident involving these other hazardous or volatile chemicals could result in serious injuries or death, or result in the shutdown of our facilities. we use sulfuric acid in the production of concentrated phosphates in our florida and louisiana operations. our louisiana facilities produce fluorosilicic acid and silica tetraflouride, both of which are hazardous chemicals, for resale to third parties. we also use or produce other hazardous or volatile chemicals at some of our facilities. an accident involving any of these chemicals could result in serious injuries or death, or evacuation of areas near an accident. an accident could also result in property damage or shutdown of our facilities, or cause us to expend significant amounts to remediate safety issues or to repair damaged facilities. as a result, an accident involving any of these chemicals could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. for example, on october 11, 2006, an explosion occurred at our faustina, louisiana ammonia plant, which is located adjacent to our phosphate production facility. as a result, the ammonia plant was idle for repairs until mid-january 2007. deliberate, malicious acts, including terrorism, could damage our facilities, disrupt our operations or injure employees, contractors, customers or the public and result in liability to us. intentional acts of destruction could hinder our sales or production and disrupt our supply chain. our facilities could be damaged or destroyed, reducing our operational production capacity and requiring us to repair or replace our facilities at substantial cost. employees, contractors and the public could suffer substantial physical injury for which we could be liable. governmental authorities may impose security or other requirements that could make our operations more difficult or costly. the consequences of any such actions could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 38 table of contents we may be adversely affected by changing antitrust laws to which we are subject. we are subject to antitrust and competition laws in various countries throughout the world. we cannot predict how these laws or their interpretation, administration and enforcement will change over time. changes in antitrust laws globally, or in their interpretation, administration or enforcement , may limit our existing or future operations and growth, or the operations of canpotex limited and the phosphate chemicals export association, inc., which serve as export associations for our potash and phosphates businesses, respectively. our competitive position could be adversely affected if we are unable to participate in continuing industry consolidation. most of our products are readily available from a number of competitors, and price and other competition in the fertilizer industry is intense. in addition, fertilizer production facilities and distribution activities frequently benefit from economies of scale. as a result, particularly during pronounced cyclical troughs, the fertilizer industry has a long history of consolidation. mosaic itself is the result of a number of industry consolidations. we expect consolidation among fertilizer producers could continue. our competitive position could suffer to the extent we are not able to expand our own resources either through consolidations, acquisitions, joint ventures or partnerships. in the future, we may not be able to find suitable companies to combine with, assets to purchase or joint venture or partnership opportunities to pursue. even if we are able to locate desirable opportunities, we may not be able to enter into transactions on economically acceptable terms. if we do not successfully participate in continuing industry consolidation, our ability to compete successfully could be adversely affected and result in the loss of customers or an uncompetitive cost structure, which could adversely affect our sales and profitability. our risk management strategy may not be effective. our businesses are affected by fluctuations in market prices for our products, the purchase price of natural gas, ammonia and sulfur consumed in operations, freight and shipping costs, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we periodically enter into derivatives to mitigate these risks. however, our derivatives strategy may not be successful in minimizing our exposure to these fluctuations. see market risk in our management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations that is incorporated by reference in this report in part ii, item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 18 of our consolidated financial statements that are incorporated by reference in this report in part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data. cargill status as a significant stockholder and its representation on our board of directors may create conflicts of interest with our other stockholders and could cause us to take actions that our other stockholders do not support. as of may 31, 2007, cargill owned 64.8% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. in addition, seven cargill nominees are members of our twelve-member board of directors. accordingly, cargill effectively controls our strategic direction and significant corporate transactions, and its interests in these matters may conflict with the interests of other stockholders of mosaic. as a result, cargill could cause us to take actions that our other stockholders do not support. cargill significant ownership interest in mosaic and our classified board of directors and other anti-takeover provisions could deter an acquisition proposal for mosaic that other stockholders may consider favorable. as the owner of a majority of the shares of our common stock, a third party will not be able to acquire control of us without cargill consent because cargill could vote its shares of our common stock against any takeover proposal submitted for stockholder approval. in addition, we have a classified board of directors and other takeover defenses in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. cargill ownership interest in us and these other anti-takeover provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals for us and could delay or prevent a change of control of mosaic. these deterrents could make it very difficult for non-cargill holders to remove or replace members of our board of directors or management, which could be detrimental to our other stockholders. 39 table of contents our stockholders may be adversely affected by the expiration of the lockup and standstill restrictions in our investor rights agreement with cargill, which would enable cargill to, among other things, transfer all or a significant percentage of its interest in our common stock to a third party, increase its ownership percentage of our common stock above 64.8% or seek additional representation on our board of directors, any of which could have an impact on the price of our common stock. standstill provisions in our investor rights agreement with cargill restrict cargill from acquiring additional shares of our common stock from our public stockholders and taking other specified actions as a stockholder of mosaic. these restrictions will expire on october 22, 2008. following the expiration of the standstill period, cargill will be free to increase its ownership interest in our common stock. purchases of additional shares of our common stock by cargill could result in lower trading volumes for our common stock and make it difficult for stockholders to sell shares of our common stock. in addition, the investor rights agreement prohibits cargill from transferring or selling its shares of mosaic common stock until october 22, 2007. once this transfer restriction is terminated, cargill will be permitted to sell its shares of our common stock. cargill sale or transfer of a significant number of shares of our common stock could create a decline in the price of our common stock. furthermore, if cargill sales or transfers were made to a single buyer or group of buyers, it could result in a third party acquiring effective control of mosaic. until the end of the standstill period, the investor rights agreement also requires that cargill vote its shares of mosaic common stock for the slate of director nominees recommended by the mosaic board of directors, and that cargill cause its nominees on the mosaic board of directors to recommend the four directors designated by imc or the successors designated by the imc-designated directors. after the standstill period, cargill will be free to seek to increase its representation on the mosaic board of directors above seven members. this action could further increase cargill control over mosaic and deter or delay an acquisition of mosaic thereby having a negative impact on the price of our common stock. we may experience difficulty in establishing a separate brand identity from cargill, which could negatively affect our sales and operating results. our results of operations will be impacted by our ability to establish our own brand identity and our ability to ensure that our products are recognized in the marketplace. to that end, cargill has licensed its brand to mosaic on a royalty-free basis until october 2009 in conjunction with the sale of fertilizers, including in certain international jurisdictions where cargill traditionally attracted premiums from customers. it is important for our management to develop a brand identity for our products and services separate from the cargill brand while the license remains in effect. our failure to do so could result in lower sales and negatively affect our revenues and operating results if cargill did not extend the license. there can be no assurance that cargill would extend the license if we requested it to do so. our success will depend on key personnel, the loss of whom could harm our businesses. we believe our continued success depends on the collective abilities and efforts of our senior management. the loss of one or more key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. additionally, if we are unable to find, hire and retain needed key personnel in the future, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. a shortage of railcars, barges and ships for carrying our products and the raw materials we use in our business could result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of production or sales, and higher transportation or equipment costs. we rely heavily upon truck, rail, barge and ocean freight transportation to obtain the raw materials we need and to deliver our products to our customers. in addition, the cost of transportation is an important part of the final 40 table of contents sale price of our products. finding affordable and dependable transportation is important in obtaining our raw materials and to supply our customers. higher costs for these transportation services or an interruption or slowdown due to factors including high demand, labor disputes, adverse weather or other environmental events, or changes to rail, barge or ocean freight systems, could negatively affect our ability to produce our products or deliver them to our customers, which could affect our performance and results of operations. strong demand for grain and other products and a strong world economy increase the demand for and reduce the availability of transportation, both domestically and internationally. shortages of railcars, barges and ocean transport for carrying product and increased transit time may result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of sales and higher equipment and transportation costs. the shipping industry has a shortage of ships and the substantial time frame needed to build new ships prevents rapid market response. delays and missed shipments due to transportation shortages, including vessels, barges, railcars and trucks, could result in customer dissatisfaction or loss of sales potential, which could negatively affect our performance and results of operations. we extend trade credit to our customers and guarantee the financing that some of our customers use to purchase our products. our results of operations may be adversely affected if these customers are unable to repay the trade credit from us or financing from their banks. we extend trade credit to our customers in the united states and throughout the world, in some cases for extended periods of time. in brazil, where there are fewer third-party financing sources available to farmers, we also have several programs under which we guarantee customers financing from financial institutions that they use to purchase our products. as our exposure to longer trade credit extended throughout the world and use of guarantees in brazil increases, we will be increasingly exposed to the risk that some of our customers will not pay us or the amounts we have guaranteed. additionally, we become increasingly exposed to risk due to weather and crop growing conditions, fluctuations in commodity prices or foreign currencies, and other factors that influence the price, supply and demand for agricultural commodities. significant defaults by our customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our current corporate organizational structure does not optimize our ability to utilize cash generated by our profitable canadian potash operations. we generate a large portion of our earnings and cash flow from our successful canadian potash business. in contrast, the mosaic company and mosaic global holdings inc., which are the primary obligors on most of our outstanding indebtedness, are organized under the laws of the state of delaware in the united states. it may be economically unattractive to distribute or transfer cash generated by our canadian potash operations to the mosaic company or mosaic global holdings inc. in order to make payments on our indebtedness or for other corporate purposes. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 43 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we have included a discussion about market risks under market risk in our management analysis. this information is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 27 risk factors our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the risks and uncertainties described below. additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operating results are highly dependent upon and fluctuate based upon business and economic conditions and governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry where we or our customers operate. these factors are outside of our control and may significantly affect our profitability. our operating results are highly dependent upon business and economic conditions and governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, which we cannot control. the agricultural products business can be affected by a number of factors. the most important of these factors, for u.s. markets, are: weather patterns and field conditions (particularly during periods of traditionally high crop nutrients consumption); quantities of crop nutrients imported to and exported from north america; current and projected grain inventories and prices, which are heavily influenced by u.s. exports and world-wide grain markets; and u.s. governmental policies, including farm and biofuel policies, which may directly or indirectly influence the number of acres planted, the level of grain inventories, the mix of crops planted or crop prices. international market conditions, which are also outside of our control, may also significantly influence our operating results. the international market for crop nutrients is influenced by such factors as the relative value of the u.s. dollar and its impact upon the cost of importing crop nutrients, foreign agricultural policies, the existence of, or changes in, import or foreign currency exchange barriers in certain foreign markets, changes in the hard currency demands of certain countries and other regulatory policies of foreign governments, as well as the laws and policies of the united states affecting foreign trade and investment. our most important products are global commodities, and we face intense global competition from other fertilizer producers that can affect our prices and volumes. our most important products are concentrated phosphate fertilizers, including diammonium phosphate, or dap, and monoammonium phosphate, or map, and muriate of potash, or mop. we sell most of our dap, map and mop in the form of global commodities. our sales of these products face intense global competition from other fertilizer producers. changes in competitors production or shifts in their marketing focus has in the past significantly affected both the prices at which we sell our products and the volumes that we sell, and are likely to continue to do so in the future. competitors are more likely to increase their production at times when world agricultural and fertilizer markets are strong, and to focus on sales into regions where their returns are highest. increases in the global supply of dap, map and mop or competitors increased sales into regions in which we have significant sales could adversely affect our prices and volumes. competitors in the markets for both concentrated phosphate fertilizers and potash have announced plans to expand capacity over the next several years. the increases in phosphate fertilizer prices may also encourage capacity expansions by phosphate rock producers who sell to non-integrated producers of phosphate fertilizers. in 27 table of contents addition, beginning in 2007 producers of concentrated phosphate fertilizers in china significantly expanded their export activities, while the chinese government has more recently taken actions to curb exports in an effort to address food inflation in that country. we cannot accurately predict when or whether competitors capacity expansions will be completed, the impact of future decisions by the chinese government on the level of chinese exports of concentrated phosphate fertilizers, or the effects of these or other actions by our competitors on the prices for our products or the volumes that we are able to sell. our crop nutrients and other products are subject to price and demand volatility resulting from periodic imbalances of supply and demand, which may cause our results of operations to fluctuate. historically, the market for crop nutrients has been cyclical, and prices and demand for our products have fluctuated to a significant extent, particularly for phosphates and, to a lesser extent, potash. periods of high demand, increasing profits and high capacity utilization tend to lead to new plant investment and increased production. this growth increases supply until the market is over-saturated, leading to declining prices and declining capacity utilization until the cycle repeats. as a result, crop nutrients prices and volumes have been volatile. this price and volume volatility may cause our results of operations to fluctuate and potentially deteriorate. the price at which we sell our crop nutrients products and our sales volumes could fall in the event of industry oversupply conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in contrast, high prices may lead our customers and farmers to delay purchasing decisions in anticipation of future lower prices, thus impacting our sales volumes. due to reduced market demand, depressed agricultural economic conditions and other factors, we and our predecessors have at various times suspended or reduced production at some of our facilities. the extent to which we utilize available capacity at our facilities will cause fluctuations in our results of operations, as we will incur costs for any temporary or indefinite shutdowns of our facilities and lower sales tends to lead to higher fixed costs as a percentage of sales. our crop nutrient business is seasonal, which may result in carrying significant amounts of inventory and seasonal variations in working capital, and our inability to predict future seasonal crop nutrient demand accurately may result in excess inventory or product shortages. the crop nutrient business is seasonal. the strongest demand for our products typically occurs during the spring planting season, with a second period of strong demand following the fall harvest. we and/or our customers generally build inventories during the low demand periods of the year in order to ensure timely product availability during the peak sales seasons. the seasonality of crop nutrient demand results in our sales volumes and net sales typically being the highest during the north american spring season and our working capital requirements typically being the highest just prior to the start of the spring season. our quarterly financial results can vary significantly from one year to the next due to weather-related shifts in planting schedules and purchasing patterns. if seasonal demand exceeds our projections, we will not have enough product and our customers may acquire products from our competitors, which would negatively impact our profitability. if seasonal demand is less than we expect, we will be left with excess inventory and higher working capital and liquidity requirements. the degree of seasonality of our business can change significantly from year to year due to conditions in the agricultural industry and other factors. 28 table of contents we conduct our operations primarily through a limited number of key production and distribution facilities. any disruption at one of these facilities could have a material adverse impact on our business. the current high rates at which these facilities are operating because of the recent increases in demand for our products increase the risk of a material disruption. we conduct our operations through a limited number of key production and distribution facilities. these large facilities include our phosphate mines and concentrates plants, our potash mines and the ports and other distribution facilities through which we conduct our business. any disruption of operations at one of these facilities has the possibility of significantly affecting our production or our ability to distribute our products. these facilities are currently operating at high rates, which increases the risk of mechanical or structural failures, decreases the time available for routine maintenance and increases the impact on our operating results from any disruption. we maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance policies, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. we are subject to various self-retentions and deductibles under these insurance policies. as a result of market conditions, our premiums, self-retentions and deductibles for insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. in addition, significantly increased costs could lead us to decide to reduce, or possibly eliminate, coverage. as a result, a disruption of operations at one of our key facilities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition. important raw materials and energy used in our businesses in the past have been and may in the future be the subject of volatile pricing. changes in the price of our raw materials could have a material impact on our businesses. natural gas, ammonia and sulfur are key raw materials used in the manufacture of phosphate crop nutrient products. natural gas is used as both a chemical feedstock and a fuel to produce anhydrous ammonia, which is a raw material used in the production of dap and map. natural gas is also a significant energy source used in the potash solution mining process. from time to time, our profitability has been and may in the future be impacted by the price and availability of these raw materials and other energy costs. because our products are commodity-like, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass through increased costs to our customers. a significant increase in the price of natural gas, ammonia, sulfur or energy costs that is not recovered through an increase in the price of our related crop nutrients products could have a material impact on our business. in the event of a disruption to existing transportation or terminaling facilities for raw materials, alternative transportation and terminaling facilities might not have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our facilities. in the event of a disruption of existing transportation or terminaling facilities for raw materials, alternative transportation and terminaling facilities might not have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our facilities. an extended interruption in the supply of natural gas, ammonia or sulfur to our production facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to risks associated with our international sales and operations, which could negatively affect our sales to customers in foreign countries as well as our operations and assets in foreign countries. some of these factors may also make it less attractive to distribute cash generated by our operations outside the united states to our stockholders, or to utilize cash generated by our operations in one country to fund our operations or repayments of indebtedness in another country or to support other corporate purposes. for fiscal 2008, we derived approximately 67% of our net sales from customers located outside of the united states. as a result, we are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: difficulties and costs associated with complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; 29 table of contents unexpected changes in regulatory environments; increased government ownership and regulation of the economy in the markets we serve; political and economic instability, including the possibility for civil unrest, inflation and adverse economic conditions resulting from governmental attempts to reduce inflation, such as imposition of higher interest rates and wage and price controls; nationalization of properties by foreign governments; the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls, trade barriers or other restrictions; and currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies, particularly the brazilian real and the canadian dollar. the occurrence of any of the above in the markets in which we operate or in other developing markets could jeopardize or limit our ability to transact business in those markets and could adversely affect our revenues and operating results and the value of our assets located outside of the united states. in addition, tax regulations, currency exchange controls and other restrictions may also make it economically unattractive to: distribute cash generated by our operations outside the united states to our stockholders, or utilize cash generated by our operations in one country to fund our operations or repayments of indebtedness in another country or to support other corporate purposes. our international assets are located in countries with volatile conditions, which could subject us and our assets to significant risks. we are a global business with substantial assets located outside of the united states and canada. our operations in brazil, argentina, chile, china and india are a fundamental part of our business. volatile economic, political and market conditions in these and other emerging market countries may have a negative impact on our operations, operating results and financial condition. adverse weather conditions, including the impact of potential hurricanes and excess rainfall, have in the past, and may, in the future, adversely affect our operations, particularly our phosphates business, and result in increased costs, decreased production and potential liabilities. adverse weather conditions, including the impact of potential hurricanes and excess rainfall, have in the past and may in the future adversely affect our operations, particularly our phosphates business. in the past, hurricanes have resulted in minor physical damage to our facilities in florida and louisiana. in addition, a release of phosphoric acid process wastewater at our riverview, florida facility during a hurricane resulted in a small civil fine, as well as an ongoing class action lawsuit and claims for natural resource damages by governmental agencies. more significantly, water treatment costs, particularly at our florida operations, due to high water balances tend to increase significantly following excess rainfall from hurricanes and other adverse weather. some of our florida facilities continue to have high water levels that may, from time to time, require treatment. the high water balances at phosphate facilities in florida also led the florida department of environmental protection to adopt new rules requiring phosphate production facilities to meet more stringent process water management objectives for phosphogypsum management systems. if additional excess rainfall or hurricanes continue to occur in coming years, the facilities may be required to take additional measures to manage process water to comply with existing or future requirements and these measures could potentially have a material effect on our business and financial condition. 30 table of contents adverse weather may also cause a loss of production due to disruptions in our supply chain. for example, following hurricane katrina in louisiana in 2005, oil refineries that supply sulfur to us were closed and incoming shipments of ammonia were delayed, disrupting production at our louisiana facilities. our operations are dependent on having the required permits and approvals from governmental authorities. a decision by a government agency to deny any of our permits and approvals or to impose restrictive conditions on us with respect to these permits and approvals may impair our business and operations. we hold numerous governmental environmental, mining and other permits and approvals authorizing operations at each of our facilities. expansion of our operations also is predicated upon securing the necessary environmental or other permits or approvals. a decision by a government agency to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations at the affected facility. over the next several years, we and our subsidiaries will be continuing our efforts to obtain permits in support of our anticipated florida mining operations at certain of our properties. in florida, local community participation has become an important factor in the permitting process for mining companies. a denial of these permits or the issuance of permits with cost-prohibitive conditions could prevent us from mining at these properties and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to financial assurance requirements as part of our routine business operations. these financial assurance requirements affect our costs and increase our liquidity requirements. if we were unable to satisfy applicable financial assurance requirements, we might not be able to obtain or maintain permits we need to operate our business as we have in the past. our need to comply with these requirements could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. in many cases, as a condition to procuring or maintaining permits and approvals or otherwise, we are required to comply with financial assurance regulatory requirements. the purpose of these requirements is to provide comfort to the government that sufficient funds will be available for the ultimate closure, post-closure care and/or reclamation of our facilities. in most cases, these financial assurance requirements can be satisfied without the need for any expenditure of corporate funds to the extent our financial statements meet certain balance sheet and income statement financial tests. in the event that we are unable to satisfy these financial tests, we must utilize alternative methods of complying with the financial assurance requirements or could be subject to enforcement proceedings brought by relevant government agencies. potential alternative methods of compliance include negotiating a consent decree that imposes alternative financial assurance or other conditions or, alternatively, providing credit support in the form of cash escrows, surety bonds from insurance companies, letters of credit from banks, or other forms of financial instruments or collateral to satisfy the financial assurance requirements. use of these alternative means of financial assurance imposes additional expense on us. some of them, such as letters of credit, also use a portion of our available liquidity. other alternative means of financial assurance, such as surety bonds, may in some cases require collateral and generally require us to obtain a discharge of the bonds or to post additional collateral (typically in the form of cash or letters of credit) at the request of the issuer of the bonds. collateral that is required may be in many forms including letters of credit or other financial instruments that utilize a portion of our available liquidity, or in the form of assets such as real estate, which reduces our flexibility to manage or sell assets. in the future, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass the applicable tests of financial strength, negotiate consent decrees, establish escrow accounts or obtain letters of credit, surety bonds or other financial instruments on acceptable terms and conditions or at a reasonable cost. it is possible that we will not be able to comply with such regulations in the future or that the form and/or cost of compliance could increase, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. 31 table of contents currently, because of a change in our corporate structure resulting from the business combination between imc global inc. and cargill crop nutrition, we do not meet the financial responsibility tests under louisiana applicable regulations. after consulting with the louisiana department of environmental quality, we requested an exemption from its financial assurance requirements seeking an alternate financial responsibility test with revised tangible net worth and u.s. asset requirements. our request for an exemption was initially denied in may 2006. we continue to pursue discussions with the agency. there can be no assurance that the agency will grant the exemption or that we will be able to meet its terms. if the agency does not grant an exemption, we will be required to (i) seek an alternate financial assurance test acceptable to the agency, (ii) provide credit support, which may include surety bonds, letters of credit and/or cash escrows, currently in an amount of approximately $142.3 million, or (iii) enter into a compliance order with the agency. the other environmental regulations to which we are subject may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition to permitting and financial assurance requirements, we are subject to numerous other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the u.s., canada, china, brazil and other countries where we operate. these laws and regulations govern a wide range of matters, including environmental controls, land reclamation, discharges to air and water and remediation of hazardous substance releases. they significantly affect our operating activities as well as the level of our operating costs and capital expenditures. in some international jurisdictions, environmental laws change frequently and it may be difficult for us to determine if we are in compliance with all material environmental laws at any given time. we are, and may in the future be, involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that could be material to us. these proceedings include legacy matters arising from activities of our predecessor companies and from facilities and businesses that we have never owned or operated. we have in the past been, are currently and may in the future be subject to legal and regulatory proceedings that could be material to our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. these proceedings may be brought by the government or private parties and may arise out of a variety of matters, including: allegations by the government or private parties that we have violated the permitting, financial assurance or other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations discussed above. for example, the u.s. environmental protection agency is engaged in an ongoing review of mineral processing industries, including us and other phosphoric acid producers, under the u.s. resource conservation and recovery act. we are also involved in other proceedings alleging that, or to review whether, we have violated environmental laws in the united states and brazil. other environmental, health and safety matters, including alleged personal injury, wrongful death, property damage, subsidence from mining operations, natural resource damages and other damage to the environment, arising out of operations, including accidents. for example, several actions were initiated by the government and private parties related to releases of phosphoric acid process wastewater at our riverview, florida facility during the hurricanes in 2004. commercial, tax and other disputes. for example, we are currently a defendant in a lawsuit by a private party attempting to recover damages for imc global inc. alleged breach of a three-page non-binding letter of intent for the sale of a salt business. we are also involved in a dispute among the owners of fosfertil, s.a. in brazil relating to a proposed reorganization of fosfertil, and various tax matters in, among other countries, the u.s. and brazil. the legal and regulatory proceedings to which we are currently or may in the future be subject can, depending on the circumstances, result in monetary damage awards, fines, penalties, other liabilities, injunctions or other court or administrative rulings that interrupt, impede or otherwise materially affect our business operations, and/or criminal sanctions. 32 table of contents among other environmental laws, the u.s. comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act, or cercla, imposes liability, including for cleanup costs, without regard to fault or to the legality of a party conduct, on certain categories of persons, including current and former owners and operators of a site and parties who are considered to have contributed to the release of hazardous substances into the environment. under cercla, or various u.s. state analogs, one party may, under certain circumstances, be required to bear more than its proportional share of cleanup costs at a site where it has liability if payments cannot be obtained from other responsible parties. as a crop nutrient company working with chemicals and other hazardous substances, we will periodically incur liabilities and cleanup costs, under cercla and other environmental laws, with regard to our current or former facilities, adjacent or nearby third party facilities or offsite disposal locations. pending and potential legal and regulatory proceedings may arise out of our present activities, including operations at current facilities. they may also arise out of past activities by us, our predecessor companies and subsidiaries that our predecessors have sold. these past activities were in some cases at facilities that we and our subsidiaries no longer own or operate and may have never owned or operated. we have included additional information with respect to pending legal and regulatory proceedings in note 21 of our consolidated financial statements and in this report in part i, item 3, legal proceedings . these legal and regulatory proceedings involve inherent uncertainties and could negatively impact our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. the permitting, financial assurance and other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations to which we are subject may become more stringent over time. this could increase the effects on us of these laws and regulations, and the increased effects could be material. continued government and public emphasis on environmental, health and safety issues in the u.s., canada, china, brazil and other countries where we operate can be expected to result in requirements that apply to us and our operations that are more stringent than those that are described above and elsewhere in this report. these more stringent requirements may include among other matters increased levels of future investments and expenditures for environmental controls at ongoing operations which will be charged against income from future operations, increased levels of the financial assurance requirements to which we are subject, increased efforts or costs to obtain permits or denial of permits, and other matters that could increase our expenses, capital requirements or liabilities or adversely affect our business, liquidity or financial condition. these effects could be material. some of our competitors have greater resources than we do which may place us at a competitive disadvantage and adversely affect our sales and profitability. these competitors include state-owned and government-subsidized entities in other countries. we compete with a number of producers in north america and throughout the world, including state-owned and government-subsidized entities. some of these entities may have greater total resources than we do, and may be less dependent on earnings from crop nutrients sales than we are. in addition, some of these entities may have access to lower cost or government-subsidized natural gas supplies, placing us at a competitive disadvantage. furthermore, governments as owners of some of our competitors may be willing to accept lower prices and profitability on their products in order to support domestic employment or other political or social goals. to the extent other producers of crop nutrients enjoy competitive advantages or are willing to accept lower profit levels, the price of our products, our sales volumes and our profits may be adversely affected. the agreements governing our indebtedness contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business and also require us to meet financial maintenance tests and other covenants. the failure to comply with such tests and covenants could have a material adverse effect on us. the agreements governing our indebtedness contain various covenants, including those that restrict our ability to: borrow money, issue specified types of preferred stock or guarantee or provide other support for indebtedness of third parties, including guarantees to finance purchases of our products; 33 table of contents pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock; make investments in or loans to entities that we do not control, including joint ventures; fund our offshore business segment from our north american operations; transact business with cargill except under certain circumstances; transfer our principal properties, stock of our subsidiaries and intercompany indebtedness to mosaic global holdings inc. and its subsidiaries (which primarily include our subsidiaries that mine and produce potash) from the mosaic company and its other subsidiaries; use assets as security in other transactions; sell assets, other than sales of inventory in the ordinary course of business, except in compliance with specified limits and up to specified dollar amounts, and in some cases require that we use the net proceeds to repay indebtedness or reinvest in replacement assets; merge with or into other companies; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; enter into unrelated businesses; prepay indebtedness; and enter into speculative swaps, derivatives or similar transactions. in addition, our senior secured bank credit facilities require that we meet certain financial tests, including an interest expense coverage ratio test and a leverage ratio test. during periods in which product prices or volumes, raw material prices or availability, or other conditions reflect the adverse impact of cyclical market trends or other factors, we may not be able to comply with the applicable financial covenants. any failure to comply with the restrictions of our credit facilities or any agreement governing our other indebtedness may result in an event of default under those agreements. such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt, which acceleration may trigger cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions in other debt. our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments, if accelerated, upon an event of default. these covenants may limit our ability to effectively operate our business. for example, they could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; make it difficult for us to optimally capitalize and manage the cash flow for our businesses; reduce stockholder returns by limiting distributions to stockholders or stock buybacks and restricting the types of investments we may make; limit our ability to expand through joint ventures or to fund our growth through external borrowings; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate; 34 table of contents place us at a disadvantage to our competitors that are not limited by the same sort of restrictions; or limit our ability to borrow money or sell stock (other than the common stock of mosaic) to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and debt service requirements and other financing needs. we have substantial cash balances that we invest in what we believe to be relatively short-term, highly liquid and high credit quality investments. we intend the investment risks, including counterparty default and lack of liquidity, on these types of investments to be relatively low, but market rates of return on these types of investments are also generally relatively low. in addition, our efforts to manage the investment risks could be unsuccessful. this could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. our significant cash flows from operations have resulted in cash and cash-equivalents of approximately $2.0 billion at may 31, 2008. as we continue to generate cash from operations, our cash and cash-equivalents should continue to increase except to the extent we reinvest in our business or make distributions to our stockholders. as discussed above, the restrictive covenants under our indebtedness limit our use of our cash and cash-equivalents. we generally invest these cash and cash-equivalents in what we believe to be relatively short-term, highly liquid and high credit quality instruments. because of these characteristics of our cash and cash-equivalents, the market rates of return on them are lower than our expectations for the return on capital invested in our business operations. moreover, our efforts to manage investment risk by focusing our investing on short-term, highly liquid and high credit quality investments could prove unsuccessful. the likelihood that our efforts to manage investment risk might prove unsuccessful is heightened during times when there is significant turmoil in the financial markets. as a result, counterparties could default on their obligations to us, or the liquidity of financial instruments that we hold could become impaired. any such event could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we do not own a controlling equity interest in our non-consolidated companies, some of which are foreign companies, and therefore our operating results and cash flow may be materially affected by how the governing boards and majority owners operate such businesses. there may also be limitations on monetary distributions from these companies that are outside of our control. together, these factors may lower our equity earnings or cash flow from such businesses and negatively impact our results of operations. we hold several minority ownership interests in fertilizer manufacturing or distribution companies that are not controlled by us. as these companies are significant to us, their results of operations materially affect our equity earnings. because we do not control these companies either at the board or stockholder levels and because local laws in foreign jurisdictions and contractual obligations may place restrictions on monetary distributions by these companies, we cannot ensure that these companies will operate efficiently, pay dividends, or generally follow the desires of our management by virtue of our board or stockholder representation. as a result, these companies may contribute significantly less than anticipated to our equity earnings and cash flow, negatively impacting our results of operations and liquidity. strikes or other forms of work stoppage or slowdown could disrupt our business and lead to increased costs. our financial performance is dependent on a reliable and productive work force. a significant portion of our workforce is covered by collective bargaining agreements with unions. unsuccessful contract negotiations or adverse labor relations could result in strikes or slowdowns. any disruptions may decrease our production and sales or impose additional costs to resolve disputes. the risk of adverse labor relations may increase as our profitability increases because labor unions expectations and demands generally rise at those times. 35 table of contents accidents occurring in the course of our operating activities could result in significant liabilities, interruptions or shutdowns of facilities or the need for significant safety or other expenditures. we engage in mining and industrial activities that can result in serious accidents. mining, in particular, can be a dangerous activity. if our safety procedures are not effective, we could be subject to liabilities arising out of personal injuries or death, our operations could be interrupted and we might have to shut down or abandon affected facilities. accidents could cause us to expend significant amounts to remediate safety issues or to repair damaged facilities. for example: our esterhazy mine has had an inflow of brine for more than 20 years. at various times, we have experienced new or increased inflows at the mine. the esterhazy mine is not insured against the risk of floods and water inflows and the costs to control the brine inflows could increase in future years. the brine inflows, risk to employees or remediation costs could also cause us to change our mining process or abandon this mine, which in turn could significantly negatively impact our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources. since december 1985, we have had inflows of salt saturated brine into our esterhazy, saskatchewan mine. over the past century, several potash mines experiencing water inflow problems have flooded. in order to control brine inflows at esterhazy, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, expenditures, certain of which due to their nature have been capitalized, while others have been charged to expense. at various times, we have experienced new or increased brine inflows at the esterhazy mine. for example, in late 2006, we identified a new salt saturated brine inflow in a mined out area located approximately 7,500 feet from our existing brine inflow management area. initial data suggested that the new inflow was at the rate of 20,000 to 25,000 gallons per minute, which was significantly greater than the highest inflow rates that we had successfully managed (approximately 10,000 to 15,000 gallons per minute) at the esterhazy mine since 1985. without abatement, and assuming our initial estimates to be accurate, we estimated that we had storage capacity to handle the new brine inflow for several months before adversely affecting production at the esterhazy mine. our remediation efforts included grouting that reduced the level of the inflows to approximately historical rates and pumping to reduce the level of brine in the mine. see potash net sales and gross margin in our management analysis for a discussion of costs and other information relating to the brine inflows. inflow rate measurements reflect an estimate as of a particular point in time, and depending on when tests are conducted, rates can fluctuate up or down. there can be no assurance that: the pumping, grouting and other measures that we use to mitigate the inflows at the esterhazy mine will continue to be successful in mitigating the inflows; our estimates of the volumes of the brine inflow or storage capacity for brine at the esterhazy mine are accurate; the volumes of the brine inflows will not fluctuate from time to time, the rate of the brine inflows will not be greater than our current assumptions and that any such fluctuations or increases would not be material; or the expenditures to control the inflows will be consistent with our current estimates. it is possible that the costs of remedial efforts at esterhazy may further increase beyond our current estimates in the future and that such an increase could be material, or, in the extreme scenario, that the water inflows, risk to employees or remediation costs may increase to a level which would cause us to change our mining process or abandon the mine. 36 table of contents due to the ongoing brine inflow problem at esterhazy, underground operations at this facility are currently not insurable for water incursion problems. our mines at colonsay, saskatchewan, and carlsbad, new mexico, are also subject to the risks of inflow of water as a result of our shaft mining operations. some of our mines are subject to potential damage from earthquakes. the excavation of mines can result in potential seismic events or can increase the likelihood or potential severity of a seismic event. the rise and fall of water levels, such as those arising from the brine inflows and our remediation activities at our esterhazy mine, can also result in or increase the likelihood or potential severity of a seismic event. our esterhazy mine has experienced minor seismic events from time to time. a significant seismic event at one of our mines could result in damage to or flooding of the mine or, in the extreme scenario, cause us to change our mining process or abandon the mine. we experienced a fire at our esterhazy mine in 2006. if our emergency procedures had not been successful, we might have had significant injuries or deaths. mine operations were halted while we investigated the origin of the fire. in january 2006, we experienced a fire at our esterhazy mine. at the time of the fire, there were 72 mine workers underground. these mine workers were safely evacuated the following day. we halted operations at our esterhazy mine for over a week during our investigation of the origin of the fire. any failure of our safety procedures in the future could result in serious injuries or death, or lengthier shutdowns, which could result in significant liabilities and/or impact on the financial performance of our potash business, including a possible material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. any fire at our shaft mines at colonsay, saskatchewan and carlsbad, new mexico, could have a similar effect on us. we handle significant quantities of ammonia at several of our facilities. if our safety procedures are not effective, an accident involving our ammonia operations could result in serious injuries or death, or result in the shutdown of our facilities. we produce ammonia at our faustina, louisiana phosphate concentrates plant, use ammonia in significant quantities at all of our florida and louisiana phosphates concentrates plants and store ammonia at some of our distribution facilities. saskferco also produces ammonia. for our florida phosphates concentrates plants, ammonia is received at terminals in tampa and transported by pipelines to our facilities. our ammonia is generally stored and transported at high pressures. an accident could occur that could result in serious injuries or death, or the evacuation of areas near an accident. an accident could also result in property damage or the shutdown of our florida or louisiana phosphates concentrates plants, the ammonia terminals or pipelines serving those plants, saskferco facilities or our other ammonia storage and handling facilities. as a result, an accident involving ammonia could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we also use or produce other hazardous or volatile chemicals at some of our facilities. if our safety procedures are not effective, an accident involving these other hazardous or volatile chemicals could result in serious injuries or death, or result in the shutdown of our facilities. we use sulfuric acid in the production of concentrated phosphates in our florida and louisiana operations. our louisiana facilities produce fluorosilicic acid and silica tetraflouride, both of which are hazardous chemicals, for resale to third parties. we also use or produce other hazardous or volatile chemicals at some of our facilities. an accident involving any of these chemicals could result in serious injuries or death, or evacuation of areas near an accident. an accident could also result in property damage or shutdown of our facilities, or cause us to expend significant amounts to remediate safety 37 table of contents issues or to repair damaged facilities. as a result, an accident involving any of these chemicals could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. for example, in october 2006, an explosion occurred at our faustina, louisiana ammonia plant, which is located adjacent to our phosphate production facility. as a result, the ammonia plant was idle for repairs until mid-january 2007. deliberate, malicious acts, including terrorism, could damage our facilities, disrupt our operations or injure employees, contractors, customers or the public and result in liability to us. intentional acts of destruction could hinder our sales or production and disrupt our supply chain. our facilities could be damaged or destroyed, reducing our operational production capacity and requiring us to repair or replace our facilities at substantial cost. employees, contractors and the public could suffer substantial physical injury for which we could be liable. governmental authorities may impose security or other requirements that could make our operations more difficult or costly. the consequences of any such actions could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by changing antitrust laws to which we are subject. the recent increases in crop nutrient prices have increased the scrutiny to which we are subject under these laws. we are subject to antitrust and competition laws in various countries throughout the world. we cannot predict how these laws or their interpretation, administration and enforcement will change over time. changes in antitrust laws globally, or in their interpretation, administration or enforcement, may limit our existing or future operations and growth, or the operations of canpotex limited and the phosphate chemicals export association, inc., which serve as export associations for our potash and phosphates businesses, respectively. the recent increases in crop nutrient prices have resulted in increased scrutiny of the crop nutrient industry under antitrust and competition laws and increase the risk that these laws could be interpreted, administered or enforced in a manner that could affect our operating practices or impose liability on us in a manner that could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by other changes in laws resulting from the recent increases in food and crop nutrient prices. the recent increases in prices for, among other things, food, fuel and crop inputs (including crop nutrients) have been the subject of significant discussion by various governmental bodies and officials throughout the world. it is possible that governments in one of more of the locations in which we operate or where we or our competitors sell our products could take actions that could affect us. such actions could include, among other matters, changes in governmental policies relating to agriculture and biofuels (including changes in subsidy levels), price controls, tariffs, windfall profits taxes or export or import taxes. any such actions could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our competitive position could be adversely affected if we are unable to participate in continuing industry consolidation. most of our products are readily available from a number of competitors, and price and other competition in the fertilizer industry is intense. in addition, fertilizer production facilities and distribution activities frequently benefit from economies of scale. as a result, particularly during pronounced cyclical troughs, the fertilizer industry has a long history of consolidation. mosaic itself is the result of a number of industry consolidations. we expect consolidation among fertilizer producers could continue. our competitive position could suffer to the extent we are not able to expand our own resources either through consolidations, acquisitions, joint ventures or partnerships. in the future, we may not be able to find suitable companies to combine with, assets to purchase or joint venture or partnership opportunities to pursue. even if we are able to locate desirable opportunities, we may not be able to enter into transactions on economically acceptable terms. if we do not successfully participate in 38 table of contents continuing industry consolidation, our ability to compete successfully could be adversely affected and result in the loss of customers or an uncompetitive cost structure, which could adversely affect our sales and profitability. our risk management strategy may not be effective. our businesses are affected by fluctuations in market prices for our products, the purchase price of natural gas and ammonia consumed in operations, freight and shipping costs and foreign currency exchange rates. we periodically enter into derivatives to mitigate these risks. however, our derivatives strategy may not be successful in minimizing our exposure to these fluctuations. see market risk in our management analysis and note 16 of our consolidated financial statements that is incorporated by reference in this report in part ii, item 8. a shortage of railcars, barges and ships for carrying our products and the raw materials we use in our business could result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of production or sales, and higher transportation or equipment costs. we rely heavily upon truck, rail, barge and ocean freight transportation to obtain the raw materials we need and to deliver our products to our customers. in addition, the cost of transportation is an important part of the final sale price of our products. finding affordable and dependable transportation is important in obtaining our raw materials and to supply our customers. higher costs for these transportation services or an interruption or slowdown due to factors including high demand, high fuel prices, labor disputes, adverse weather or other environmental events, or changes to rail, barge or ocean freight systems, could negatively affect our ability to produce our products or deliver them to our customers, which could affect our performance and results of operations. strong demand for grain and other products and a strong world economy increase the demand for and reduce the availability of transportation, both domestically and internationally. shortages of railcars, barges and ocean transport for carrying product and increased transit time may result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of sales and higher equipment and transportation costs. the shipping industry has a shortage of ships and the substantial time needed to build new ships prevents rapid market response. delays and missed shipments due to transportation shortages, including vessels, barges, railcars and trucks, could result in customer dissatisfaction or loss of sales potential, which could negatively affect our performance and results of operations. we extend trade credit to our customers and guarantee the financing that some of our customers use to purchase our products. our results of operations may be adversely affected if these customers are unable to repay the trade credit from us or financing from their banks. the recent increases in prices for fertilizer, other agricultural inputs and grain may increase this risk. we extend trade credit to our customers in the united states and throughout the world, in some cases for extended periods of time. in brazil, where there are fewer third-party financing sources available to farmers, we also have several programs under which we guarantee customers financing from financial institutions that they use to purchase our products. as our exposure to longer trade credit extended throughout the world and use of guarantees in brazil increases, we will be increasingly exposed to the risk that some of our customers will not pay us or the amounts we have guaranteed. additionally, we become increasingly exposed to risk due to weather and crop growing conditions, fluctuations in commodity prices or foreign currencies, and other factors that influence the price, supply and demand for agricultural commodities. significant defaults by our customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. the recent increases in prices for fertilizer increase the dollar amount of our sales to customers. the larger dollar value of our customers purchases may also lead them to request longer trade credit from us and/or increase their need for us to guarantee their financing of our products. either factor could increase the amount of our exposure to the risk that our customers may be unable to repay the trade credit from us or financing from their banks that 39 table of contents we guarantee. in addition, increases in prices for other agricultural inputs and grain may increase the working capital requirements, indebtedness and other liabilities of our customers, increase the risk that they will default on the trade credit from us or their financing that we guarantee, and decrease the likelihood that we will be able to collect from our customers in the event of their default. cargill status as a significant stockholder and its representation on our board of directors may create conflicts of interest with our other stockholders and could cause us to take actions that our other stockholders do not support. as of may 31, 2008, cargill owned 64.4% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. in addition, seven cargill nominees are members of our twelve-member board of directors. accordingly, cargill effectively controls our strategic direction and significant corporate transactions, and its interests in these matters may conflict with the interests of other stockholders of mosaic. as a result, cargill could cause us to take actions that our other stockholders do not support. cargill significant ownership interest in mosaic and our classified board of directors and other anti-takeover provisions could deter an acquisition proposal for mosaic that other stockholders may consider favorable. as the owner of a majority of the shares of our common stock, a third party will not be able to acquire control of us without cargill consent because cargill could vote its shares of our common stock against any takeover proposal submitted for stockholder approval. in addition, we have a classified board of directors and other takeover defenses in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. cargill ownership interest in us and these other anti-takeover provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals for us and could delay or prevent a change of control of mosaic. these deterrents could make it very difficult for non-cargill holders to remove or replace members of our board of directors or management, which could be detrimental to our other stockholders. our stockholders may be adversely affected by the expiration of the standstill restrictions in our investor rights agreement with cargill, which would enable cargill to, among other things, increase its ownership percentage of our common stock above 64.4% or seek additional representation on our board of directors, any of which could have an impact on the price of our common stock. our stockholders may also be adversely affected if cargill were to transfer all or a significant percentage of its interest in our common stock to a third party. standstill provisions in our investor rights agreement with cargill restrict cargill from acquiring additional shares of our common stock from our public stockholders and taking other specified actions as a stockholder of mosaic. these restrictions will expire on october 22, 2008. following the expiration of the standstill period, cargill will be free to increase its ownership interest in our common stock. purchases of additional shares of our common stock by cargill could result in lower trading volumes for our common stock and make it difficult for stockholders to sell shares of our common stock. in addition, cargill is permitted to sell its shares of our common stock. cargill sale or transfer of a significant number of shares of our common stock could create a decline in the price of our common stock. furthermore, if cargill sales or transfers were made to a single buyer or group of buyers, it could result in a third party acquiring effective control of mosaic. until the end of the standstill period, the investor rights agreement also requires that cargill vote its shares of mosaic common stock for the slate of director nominees recommended by the mosaic board of directors, and that cargill cause its nominees on the mosaic board of directors to recommend the four directors designated by imc or the successors designated by the imc-designated directors. after the standstill period, cargill will be free to seek to increase its representation on the mosaic board of directors above seven members. this action could 40 table of contents further increase cargill control over mosaic and deter or delay an acquisition of mosaic thereby having a negative impact on the price of our common stock. our success will increasingly depend on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified and motivated employees. we believe our continued success depends on the collective abilities and efforts of our employees. like many businesses, a significant number of our employees, including some of our most highly skilled employees with specialized expertise in potash and phosphates operations, will be approaching retirement age throughout the next decade and beyond. in addition, we compete for a talented workforce with other businesses, particularly within the mining and chemicals industries in general and the crop nutrients industry in particular. our expansion plans are highly dependent on our ability to retain and to attract and train highly qualified and motivated employees who are essential to the success of our ongoing operations as well as to our expansion plans. if we were to be unsuccessful in retaining, attracting and training the employees we require, our ongoing operations and expansion plans could be materially and adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 43 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we have included a discussion about market risks under market risk in our management analysis. this information is incorporated herein by reference. 43 table of contentsrisk factors 26 risk factors our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the risks and uncertainties described below. additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operating results are highly dependent upon and fluctuate based upon business and economic conditions and governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry where we or our customers operate. these factors are outside of our control and may significantly affect our profitability. our operating results are highly dependent upon business and economic conditions and governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, which we cannot control. the agricultural products business can be affected by a number of factors. the most important of these factors, for u.s. markets, are: weather patterns and field conditions (particularly during periods of traditionally high crop nutrients consumption); quantities of crop nutrients imported to and exported from north america; current and projected grain inventories and prices, which are heavily influenced by u.s. exports and world-wide grain markets; and u.s. governmental policies, including farm and biofuel policies, which may directly or indirectly influence the number of acres planted, the level of grain inventories, the mix of crops planted or crop prices. international market conditions, which are also outside of our control, may also significantly influence our operating results. the international market for crop nutrients is influenced by such factors as the relative value of the u.s. dollar and its impact upon the cost of importing crop nutrients, foreign agricultural policies, the existence of, or changes in, import or foreign currency exchange barriers in certain foreign markets, changes in the hard currency demands of certain countries and other regulatory policies of foreign governments, as well as the laws and policies of the united states affecting foreign trade and investment. 26 table of contents our most important products are global commodities, and we face intense global competition from other crop nutrient producers that can affect our prices and volumes. our most important products are concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, including diammonium phosphate, or dap, and monoammonium phosphate, or map, and muriate of potash, or mop. we sell most of our dap, map and mop in the form of global commodities. our sales of these products face intense global competition from other crop nutrient producers. changes in competitors production or shifts in their marketing focus have in the past significantly affected both the prices at which we sell our products and the volumes that we sell, and are likely to continue to do so in the future. competitors are more likely to increase their production at times when world agricultural and crop nutrient markets are strong, and to focus on sales into regions where their returns are highest. increases in the global supply of dap, map and mop or competitors increased sales into regions in which we have significant sales could adversely affect our prices and volumes. competitors and potential new entrants in the markets for both concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and potash have announced plans to expand capacity over the next several years. the extent to which the downturn in the global economy and the crisis in the financial sector may cause delays or cancellation of some of these projects is unclear. in addition, the level of exports by producers of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients in china depends to a significant extent on chinese government actions to curb exports through, among other measures, prohibitive export taxes at times when the government believes it desirable to assure ample domestic supplies of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients to stimulate grain and oilseed production. we cannot accurately predict when or whether competitors capacity expansions will be completed, the impact of future decisions by the chinese government on the level of chinese exports of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, or the effects of these or other actions by our competitors on the prices for our products or the volumes that we are able to sell. our crop nutrients and other products are subject to price and demand volatility resulting from periodic imbalances of supply and demand, which may cause our results of operations to fluctuate. historically, the market for crop nutrients has been cyclical, and prices and demand for our products have fluctuated to a significant extent, particularly for phosphates and, to a lesser extent, potash. periods of high demand, increasing profits and high capacity utilization tend to lead to new plant investment and increased production. this growth increases supply until the market is over-saturated, leading to declining prices and declining capacity utilization until the cycle repeats. as a result, crop nutrient prices and volumes have been volatile. this price and volume volatility may cause our results of operations to fluctuate and potentially deteriorate. the price at which we sell our crop nutrient products and our sales volumes could fall in the event of industry oversupply conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in contrast, high prices may lead our customers and farmers to delay purchasing decisions in anticipation of future lower prices, thus impacting our sales volumes. due to reduced market demand, depressed agricultural economic conditions and other factors, we and our predecessors have at various times suspended or reduced production at some of our facilities. the extent to which we utilize available capacity at our facilities will cause fluctuations in our results of operations, as we will incur costs for any temporary or indefinite shutdowns of our facilities and lower sales tends to lead to higher fixed costs as a percentage of sales. 27 table of contents variations in crop nutrient application rates may exacerbate the cyclicality of the crop nutrient markets. farmers are able to maximize their economic return by applying optimum amounts of crop nutrients. farmers decisions about the application rate for each crop nutrient, or to forego application of a crop nutrient, particularly phosphate and potash, vary from year to year depending on a number of factors, including among others, crop prices, crop nutrient and other crop input costs or the level of the crop nutrient remaining in the soil following the previous harvest. farmers are more likely to increase application rates when crop prices are relatively high, crop nutrient and other crop input costs are relatively low and the level of the crop nutrient remaining in the soil is relatively low. conversely, farmers are likely to reduce or forego application when farm economics are weak or declining or the level of the crop nutrients remaining in the soil is relatively high. this variability in application rates can materially accentuate the cyclicality in prices for our products and our sales volumes. our crop nutrient business is seasonal, which may result in carrying significant amounts of inventory and seasonal variations in working capital, and our inability to predict future seasonal crop nutrient demand accurately may result in excess inventory or product shortages. the crop nutrient business is seasonal. farmers tend to apply crop nutrients during two short application periods, one in the spring and the other in the fall. as a result, the strongest demand for our products typically occurs during the spring planting season, with a second period of strong demand following the fall harvest. in contrast, we and other crop nutrient producers generally produce our products throughout the year. as a result, we and/or our customers generally build inventories during the low demand periods of the year in order to ensure timely product availability during the peak sales seasons. the seasonality of crop nutrient demand results in our sales volumes and net sales typically being the highest during the north american spring season and our working capital requirements typically being the highest just prior to the start of the spring season. our quarterly financial results can vary significantly from one year to the next due to weather-related shifts in planting schedules and purchasing patterns. if seasonal demand exceeds our projections, we will not have enough product and our customers may acquire products from our competitors, which would negatively impact our profitability. if seasonal demand is less than we expect, we will be left with excess inventory and higher working capital and liquidity requirements. the degree of seasonality of our business can change significantly from year to year due to conditions in the agricultural industry and other factors. the distribution channels for crop nutrients have capacity to build significant levels of inventories. significant build-up of inventories in the distribution channels for crop nutrients can adversely affect our sales volumes and selling prices. in order to balance the production needs of crop nutrient producers with farmers seasonal use of crop nutrients, crop nutrient distribution channels need to have the capacity to build significant inventories. the build-up of inventories in the distribution channels can become excessive, particularly during the cyclical periods of low demand that have been typical in the crop nutrient industry. when there are excessive inventories in the distribution channel, our sales volumes and selling prices can be adversely impacted, even during periods in which farmers use of crop nutrients may remain strong. for example, a build-up of concentrated phosphates and potash in the distribution channels was one of several significant factors that led to softening selling prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and weakened sales volumes for both concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and potash in our fiscal year ended may 31, 2009. changes in transportation costs can affect our sales volumes and selling prices. the cost of delivery is a significant factor in the total cost to customers and farmers of crop nutrients. as a result, changes in transportation costs or in customer expectations about them can affect our sales volumes and prices. 28 table of contents customer expectations about future events can have a significant effect on the demand for our products. these expectations can significantly affect our sales volumes and selling prices. customer expectations about future events has had and is expected to continue to have an effect on the demand and prices for crop nutrients. the future events that may be affected by customer expectations include, among others: customer expectations about future crop nutrient prices and availability. customer expectations about selling prices and availability of crop nutrients has had and is expected to continue to have an effect on the demand for crop nutrients. when customers anticipate increasing crop nutrient selling prices, customers tend to accumulate inventories before the anticipated price increases. this can result in a lag in our realization of rising market prices for our products. conversely, customers tend to delay their purchases when they anticipate future selling prices for crop nutrients will stabilize or decrease, adversely affecting our sales volumes and selling prices. customer expectations about availability of crop nutrients can have similar effects on sales volumes and prices. for example, during portions of fiscal 2009, our customers anticipated a decline in the market price of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients because of falling global prices for sulfur and ammonia, two of the key raw materials used in the production of concentrated phosphates. our customers expectation of falling prices was one of several significant factors that led to weak sales volumes and softening selling prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients during portions of fiscal 2009. customer expectations about future farmer economics. similarly, customer expectations about future farmer economics has had and is expected to continue to have an effect on the demand for crop nutrients. when customers anticipate improving farmer economics, customers tend to accumulate crop nutrient inventories in anticipation of increasing sales volumes and selling prices. this can result in a lag in our realization of rising market prices for our products. conversely, when customers anticipate declining farmer economics, customers tend to reduce the level of their purchases of crop nutrients, adversely affecting our sales volumes and selling prices. for example, a plunge in market prices for grains and oilseeds since peaks in june 2008 led customers to expect declining farmer economics. the expectation of declining farmer economics was one of several significant factors that led to softening selling prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and weak sales volumes for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and potash during portions of fiscal 2009. changes in customer expectations about transportation costs. as more fully discussed above, increasing transportation costs effectively increase customers and farmers costs for crop nutrients and can reduce the amount we realize for our sales. expectations of decreasing transportation costs can result in customers and farmers anticipating that they may be able to decrease their costs by delaying purchases. as a result, changes in customer expectations about transportation costs can affect our sales volumes and prices. we conduct our operations primarily through a limited number of key production and distribution facilities. any disruption at one of these facilities could have a material adverse impact on our business. the risk of material disruption increases when demand for our products results in high operating rates at our facilities. we conduct our operations through a limited number of key production and distribution facilities. these large facilities include our phosphate mines and concentrates plants, our potash mines and the ports and other distribution facilities through which we conduct our business. any disruption of operations at one of these 29 table of contents facilities has the possibility of significantly affecting our production or our ability to distribute our products. operating these facilities at high rates during periods of high demand for our products increases the risk of mechanical or structural failures, decreases the time available for routine maintenance and increases the impact on our operating results from any disruption. we maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance policies, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. we are subject to various self-retentions and deductibles under these insurance policies. as a result of market conditions, our premiums, self-retentions and deductibles for insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. in addition, significantly increased costs could lead us to decide to reduce, or possibly eliminate, coverage. as a result, a disruption of operations at one of our key facilities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition. important raw materials and energy used in our businesses in the past have been and may in the future be the subject of volatile pricing. changes in the price of our raw materials could have a material impact on our businesses. natural gas, ammonia and sulfur are key raw materials used in the manufacture of phosphate crop nutrient products. natural gas is used as both a chemical feedstock and a fuel to produce anhydrous ammonia, which is a raw material used in the production of dap and map. natural gas is also a significant energy source used in the potash solution mining process. from time to time, our profitability has been and may in the future be impacted by the price and availability of these raw materials and other energy costs. because our products are commodity-like, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass through increased costs to our customers. a significant increase in the price of natural gas, ammonia, sulfur or energy costs that is not recovered through an increase in the price of our related crop nutrients products could have a material impact on our business. during periods when the price for concentrated phosphates is falling because of falling raw material prices, we may experience a lag in realizing the benefits of the falling raw materials prices. this lag can adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. during some periods, changes in market prices for raw materials can lead to changes in the global market prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients. in particular, the global market prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients can be affected by changes in the market prices for sulfur, ammonia, phosphate rock and/or phosphoric acid raw materials. increasing market prices for these raw materials tend to put upward pressure on the selling prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, and decreasing market prices for these raw materials tend to put downward pressure on selling prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients. when the market prices for these raw materials plunge rapidly, the selling prices for our concentrated phosphate crop nutrients can fall more rapidly than we are able to consume our raw material inventory that we purchased or committed to purchase in the past at higher prices. as a result, our costs may not fall as rapidly as the selling prices of our products. until we are able to consume the higher priced raw materials, our gross margins and profitability can be adversely affected. during periods when the prices for our products are falling because of falling raw material prices, we could be required to write down the value of our inventories. any such write-down would adversely affect our results of operations and the level of our assets. we carry our inventories at the lower of cost or market. in periods when the market prices for our products are falling rapidly in response to falling market prices for raw materials, it is possible that we could be required to write down the value of our inventories if market prices fall below our costs. any such write-down would adversely affect our results of operations and the level of our assets. any such effect could be material. for example, in our fiscal quarter ended november 30, 2008, we recorded lower of cost or market inventory write-downs principally in our phosphate and offshore segments. these lower of cost or market inventory write-downs, which totaled $293.5 million, were necessary because the carrying cost of certain ending inventories exceeded our estimates of future selling prices less reasonably predictable selling costs. 30 table of contents our estimates of future selling prices reflect in part the purchase commitments we have from our customers. as a result, defaults on these existing purchase commitments because of the current global economic and financial turmoil or for other reasons could adversely affect our estimates of future selling prices and require additional inventory write-downs. in the event of a disruption to existing transportation or terminaling facilities for raw materials, alternative transportation and terminaling facilities might not have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our facilities. in the event of a disruption of existing transportation or terminaling facilities for raw materials, alternative transportation and terminaling facilities might not have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our facilities. an extended interruption in the supply of natural gas, ammonia or sulfur to our production facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to risks associated with our international sales and operations, which could negatively affect our sales to customers in foreign countries as well as our operations and assets in foreign countries. some of these factors may also make it less attractive to distribute cash generated by our operations outside the united states to our stockholders, or to utilize cash generated by our operations in one country to fund our operations or repayments of indebtedness in another country or to support other corporate purposes. for fiscal 2009, we derived approximately 70% of our net sales from customers located outside of the united states. as a result, we are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: difficulties and costs associated with complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory environments; increased government ownership and regulation of the economy in the markets we serve; political and economic instability, including the possibility for civil unrest, inflation and adverse economic conditions resulting from governmental attempts to reduce inflation, such as imposition of higher interest rates and wage and price controls; nationalization of properties by foreign governments; the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls, trade barriers or other restrictions; and currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies, particularly the brazilian real and the canadian dollar. the occurrence of any of the above in the markets in which we operate or in other developing markets could jeopardize or limit our ability to transact business in those markets and could adversely affect our revenues and operating results and the value of our assets located outside of the united states. in addition, tax regulations, currency exchange controls and other restrictions may also make it economically unattractive to: distribute cash generated by our operations outside the united states to our stockholders, or utilize cash generated by our operations in one country to fund our operations or repayments of indebtedness in another country or to support other corporate purposes. 31 table of contents our international assets are located in countries with volatile conditions, which could subject us and our assets to significant risks. we are a global business with substantial assets located outside of the united states and canada. our operations in brazil, argentina, chile, china and india are a fundamental part of our business. volatile economic, political and market conditions in these and other emerging market countries may have a negative impact on our operations, operating results and financial condition. adverse weather conditions, including the impact of potential hurricanes and excess rainfall, have in the past, and may in the future, adversely affect our operations, particularly our phosphates business, and result in increased costs, decreased production and potential liabilities. adverse weather conditions, including the impact of potential hurricanes and excess rainfall, have in the past and may in the future adversely affect our operations, particularly our phosphates business. in the past, hurricanes have resulted in minor physical damage to our facilities in florida and louisiana. in addition, a release of phosphoric acid process wastewater at our riverview, florida facility during a hurricane resulted in a small civil fine, as well as a private class action lawsuit and claims for natural resource damages by governmental agencies. more significantly, water treatment costs, particularly at our florida operations, due to high water balances tend to increase significantly following excess rainfall from hurricanes and other adverse weather. some of our florida facilities have high water levels that may, from time to time, require treatment. the high water balances at phosphate facilities in florida also led the florida department of environmental protection to adopt new rules requiring phosphate production facilities to meet more stringent process water management objectives for phosphogypsum management systems. if additional excess rainfall or hurricanes continue to occur in coming years, the facilities may be required to take additional measures to manage process water to comply with existing or future requirements and these measures could potentially have a material effect on our business and financial condition. adverse weather may also cause a loss of production due to disruptions in our supply chain. for example, following hurricane katrina in louisiana in 2005, oil refineries that supply sulfur to us were closed and incoming shipments of ammonia were delayed, disrupting production at our louisiana facilities. our operations are dependent on having the required permits and approvals from governmental authorities. denial or delay by a government agency in issuing any of our permits and approvals or imposition of restrictive conditions on us with respect to these permits and approvals may impair our business and operations. we hold numerous governmental environmental, mining and other permits and approvals authorizing operations at each of our facilities. a decision by a government agency to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations at the affected facility. expansion of our operations also is predicated upon securing the necessary environmental or other permits or approvals. over the next several years, we and our subsidiaries will be continuing our efforts to obtain permits in support of our anticipated florida mining operations at certain of our properties. in florida, local community participation has become an important factor in the permitting process for mining companies, and various local counties and other parties in florida have in the past and continue to file lawsuits challenging the issuance of some of the permits we require. in fiscal 2009 environmental groups for the first time filed a lawsuit in federal court against the u.s. army corps of engineers with respect to its issuance of a federal wetlands permit and similar lawsuits could be brought in the future. a denial of, or delay in issuing, these permits or the issuance of permits with cost-prohibitive conditions could prevent us from mining at these properties and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for example, we have applied to the u.s. army corps of engineers for a federal wetlands permit to extend our south fort meade mine in central florida from polk county into hardee county, where we also have reserves. we cannot assure when the u.s. army corps of engineers will issue the wetlands permit. 32 table of contents we have included additional discussion about permitting for our phosphate mines in florida in note 21 of our consolidated financial statements. we are subject to financial assurance requirements as part of our routine business operations. these financial assurance requirements affect our costs and increase our liquidity requirements. if we were unable to satisfy applicable financial assurance requirements, we might not be able to obtain or maintain permits we need to operate our business as we have in the past. our need to comply with these requirements could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. in many cases, as a condition to procuring or maintaining permits and approvals or otherwise, we are required to comply with financial assurance regulatory requirements. the purpose of these requirements is to provide comfort to the government that sufficient funds will be available for the ultimate closure, post-closure care and/or reclamation of our facilities. in most cases, these financial assurance requirements can be satisfied without the need for any expenditure of corporate funds to the extent our financial statements meet certain balance sheet and income statement financial strength tests. in the event that we are unable to satisfy these financial strength tests, we must utilize alternative methods of complying with the financial assurance requirements or could be subject to enforcement proceedings brought by relevant government agencies. potential alternative methods of compliance include negotiating a consent decree that imposes alternative financial assurance or other conditions or, alternatively, providing credit support in the form of cash escrows, surety bonds from insurance companies, letters of credit from banks, or other forms of financial instruments or collateral to satisfy the financial assurance requirements. use of these alternative means of financial assurance imposes additional expense on us. some of them, such as letters of credit, also use a portion of our available liquidity. other alternative means of financial assurance, such as surety bonds, may in some cases require collateral and generally require us to obtain a discharge of the bonds or to post additional collateral (typically in the form of cash or letters of credit) at the request of the issuer of the bonds. collateral that is required may be in many forms including letters of credit or other financial instruments that utilize a portion of our available liquidity, or in the form of assets such as real estate, which reduces our flexibility to manage or sell assets. in the past, we have not always been able to satisfy applicable financial strength tests, and in the future, it is possible that we will not be able to pass the applicable financial strength tests, negotiate consent decrees, establish escrow accounts or obtain letters of credit, surety bonds or other financial instruments on acceptable terms and conditions or at a reasonable cost, or that the form and/or cost of compliance could increase, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. the other environmental regulations to which we are subject may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition to permitting and financial assurance requirements, we are subject to numerous other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the u.s., canada, china, brazil and other countries where we operate. these laws and regulations govern a wide range of matters, including environmental controls, land reclamation, discharges to air and water and remediation of hazardous substance releases. they significantly affect our operating activities as well as the level of our operating costs and capital expenditures. in some international jurisdictions, environmental laws change frequently and it may be difficult for us to determine if we are in compliance with all material environmental laws at any given time. 33 table of contents we are, and may in the future be, involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that could be material to us. these proceedings include legacy matters arising from activities of our predecessor companies and from facilities and businesses that we have never owned or operated. we have in the past been, are currently and may in the future be subject to legal and regulatory proceedings that could be material to our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. these proceedings may be brought by the government or private parties and may arise out of a variety of matters, including: allegations by the government or private parties that we have violated the permitting, financial assurance or other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations discussed above. for example, the u.s. environmental protection agency is engaged in an ongoing review of mineral processing industries, including us and other phosphoric acid producers, under the u.s. resource conservation and recovery act. we are also involved in other proceedings alleging that, or to review whether, we have violated environmental laws in the united states and brazil. other environmental, health and safety matters, including alleged personal injury, wrongful death, property damage, subsidence from mining operations, natural resource damages and other damage to the environment, arising out of operations, including accidents. for example, several actions were initiated by the government and private parties related to releases of phosphoric acid process wastewater at our riverview, florida facility during the hurricanes in 2004. antitrust, commercial, tax and other disputes. for example, we are currently one of a number of defendants in multiple class-action lawsuits, in which the plaintiffs seek unspecified amounts of damages including treble damages, alleging that we and other defendants conspired to, among other matters, fix the price at which potash was sold in the united states, allocated market shares and customers and fraudulently concealed their anticompetitive conduct. we are also involved in a dispute among the owners of fosfertil, s.a. in brazil relating to a proposed reorganization of fosfertil, and various tax matters in, among other countries, the u.s. and brazil. the legal and regulatory proceedings to which we are currently or may in the future be subject can, depending on the circumstances, result in monetary damage awards, fines, penalties, other liabilities, injunctions or other court or administrative rulings that interrupt, impede or otherwise materially affect our business operations, and/or criminal sanctions. among other environmental laws, the u.s. comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act, or cercla, imposes liability, including for cleanup costs, without regard to fault or to the legality of a party conduct, on certain categories of persons, including current and former owners and operators of a site and parties who are considered to have contributed to the release of hazardous substances into the environment. under cercla, or various u.s. state analogs, one party may, under certain circumstances, be required to bear more than its proportional share of cleanup costs at a site where it has liability if payments cannot be obtained from other responsible parties. as a crop nutrient company working with chemicals and other hazardous substances, we will periodically incur liabilities and cleanup costs, under cercla and other environmental laws, with regard to our current or former facilities, adjacent or nearby third party facilities or offsite disposal locations. pending and potential legal and regulatory proceedings may arise out of our present activities, including operations at current facilities. they may also arise out of past activities by us, our predecessor companies and subsidiaries that our predecessors have sold. these past activities were in some cases at facilities that we and our subsidiaries no longer own or operate and may have never owned or operated. we have included additional information with respect to pending legal and regulatory proceedings in note 21 of our consolidated financial statements and in this report in part i, item 3, legal proceedings . 34 table of contents these legal and regulatory proceedings involve inherent uncertainties and could negatively impact our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. the permitting, financial assurance and other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations to which we are subject may become more stringent over time. this could increase the effects on us of these laws and regulations, and the increased effects could be material. continued government and public emphasis on environmental, health and safety issues in the u.s., canada, china, brazil and other countries where we operate can be expected to result in requirements that apply to us and our operations that are more stringent than those that are described above and elsewhere in this report. these more stringent requirements may include among other matters increased levels of future investments and expenditures for environmental controls at ongoing operations which will be charged against income from future operations, increased levels of the financial assurance requirements to which we are subject, increased efforts or costs to obtain permits or denial of permits, and other matters that could increase our expenses, capital requirements or liabilities or adversely affect our business, liquidity or financial condition. in addition, to the extent restrictions imposed in countries where our competitors operate, such as china, india, former soviet union countries or morocco, are less stringent than in the countries where we operate, our competitors could gain cost or other competitive advantages over us. these effects could be material. future regulatory restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions in the united states, canada or elsewhere could adversely affect us, and these effects could be material. pursuant to the kyoto protocol, canada has already committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. it appears increasingly likely that the united states will begin to limit greenhouse gas emissions through federal legislation or regulatory action. international negotiations relating to greenhouse gas emission reductions and other responses to climate change are also underway. in addition, coalitions of u.s. states are working together to develop regional greenhouse gas emission reduction programs and some u.s. states are considering acting on their own. these and other future measures could attempt to restrict greenhouse gas emissions by a variety of means, including among others limitations on greenhouse gas emissions, other restrictions on operating activities, or taxes or emission allowance fees on greenhouse gas emissions. these measures could restrict our operating activities, require us to make changes in our operating activities that would increase our operating costs, reduce our efficiency or limit our output, require us to make capital improvements to our facilities, increase our costs for energy, raw material or transportation or limit their availability, or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, and these effects could be material to us. in addition, to the extent climate change restrictions imposed in countries where our competitors operate, such as china, india, former soviet union countries or morocco, are less stringent than in the united states or canada, our competitors could gain cost or other competitive advantages over us. future climate change could adversely affect us, and these effects could be material. the potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations and those of our customers and farmers are uncertain and may vary by geographic location. the impacts may include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperature levels that could adversely impact our costs and operating activities, the location and cost of global grain and oilseed production, and the supply and demand for grains and oilseeds. these effects could be material to our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources. 35 table of contents some of our competitors have greater resources than we do which may place us at a competitive disadvantage and adversely affect our sales and profitability. these competitors include state-owned and government-subsidized entities in other countries. we compete with a number of producers in north america and throughout the world, including state-owned and government-subsidized entities. some of these entities may have greater total resources than we do, and may be less dependent on earnings from crop nutrients sales than we are. in addition, some of these entities may have access to lower cost or government-subsidized natural gas supplies, placing us at a competitive disadvantage. furthermore, governments as owners of some of our competitors may be willing to accept lower prices and profitability on their products in order to support domestic employment or other political or social goals. to the extent other producers of crop nutrients enjoy competitive advantages or are willing to accept lower profit levels, the price of our products, our sales volumes and our profits may be adversely affected. the agreements governing our indebtedness contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business and also require us to meet financial maintenance tests and other covenants. the failure to comply with such tests and covenants could have a material adverse effect on us. the agreements governing our indebtedness contain various covenants, including those that restrict our ability to: borrow money, issue specified types of preferred stock or guarantee or provide other support for indebtedness of third parties, including guarantees to finance purchases of our products; pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock; make investments in or loans to entities that we do not control, including joint ventures; fund our offshore business segment from our north american operations; transact business with cargill except under certain circumstances; transfer our principal properties, stock of our subsidiaries and intercompany indebtedness to mosaic global holdings inc. and its subsidiaries (which primarily include our subsidiaries that mine and produce potash) from the mosaic company and its other subsidiaries; use assets as security in other transactions; sell assets, other than sales of inventory in the ordinary course of business, except in compliance with specified limits and up to specified dollar amounts, and in some cases require that we use the net proceeds to repay indebtedness or reinvest in replacement assets; merge with or into other companies; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; enter into unrelated businesses; prepay indebtedness; and enter into speculative swaps, derivatives or similar transactions. in addition, our senior secured bank credit facilities require that we meet certain financial tests, including an interest expense coverage ratio test and a leverage ratio test. during periods in which product prices or volumes, raw material prices or availability, or other conditions reflect the adverse impact of cyclical market trends or other factors, we may not be able to comply with the applicable financial covenants. 36 table of contents any failure to comply with the restrictions of our credit facilities or any agreement governing our other indebtedness may result in an event of default under those agreements. such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt, which acceleration may trigger cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions in other debt. our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments, if accelerated, upon an event of default. these covenants may limit our ability to effectively operate our business. for example, they could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; make it difficult for us to optimally capitalize and manage the cash flow for our businesses; reduce stockholder returns by limiting distributions to stockholders or stock buybacks and restricting the types of investments we may make; limit our ability to expand through joint ventures or to fund our growth through external borrowings; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate; place us at a disadvantage to our competitors that are not limited by the same sort of restrictions; or limit our ability to borrow money or sell stock (other than the common stock of mosaic) to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and debt service requirements and other financing needs. we have substantial cash balances that we invest in what we believe to be relatively short-term, highly liquid and high credit quality investments. we intend the investment risks, including counterparty default and lack of liquidity, on these types of investments to be relatively low, but market rates of return on these types of investments are also generally relatively low. in addition, our efforts to manage the investment risks could be unsuccessful. this could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. our significant cash flows from operations have resulted in cash and cash-equivalents of approximately $2.7 billion at may 31, 2009. our cash and cash-equivalents should continue to increase when we generate cash from operations, except to the extent we reinvest in our business or make distributions to our stockholders. as discussed above, the restrictive covenants under our indebtedness limit our use of our cash and cash-equivalents. we generally invest these cash and cash-equivalents in what we believe to be relatively short-term, highly liquid and high credit quality instruments. because of these characteristics of our cash and cash-equivalents, the market rates of return on them are lower than our expectations for the return on capital invested in our business operations. moreover, our efforts to manage investment risk by focusing our investing on short-term, highly liquid and high credit quality investments could prove unsuccessful. the likelihood that our efforts to manage investment risk might prove unsuccessful is heightened during times when there is significant turmoil in the financial markets. as a result, counterparties could default on their obligations to us, or the liquidity of financial instruments that we hold could become impaired. any such event could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. 37 table of contents we do not own a controlling equity interest in our non-consolidated companies, some of which are foreign companies, and therefore our operating results and cash flow may be materially affected by how the governing boards and majority owners operate such businesses. there may also be limitations on monetary distributions from these companies that are outside of our control. together, these factors may lower our equity earnings or cash flow from such businesses and negatively impact our results of operations. we hold several minority ownership interests in crop nutrient manufacturing or distribution companies that are not controlled by us. as some of these companies are significant to us, their results of operations materially affect our equity earnings. because we do not control these companies either at the board or stockholder levels and because local laws in foreign jurisdictions and contractual obligations may place restrictions on monetary distributions by these companies, we cannot ensure that these companies will operate efficiently, pay dividends, or generally follow the desires of our management by virtue of our board or stockholder representation. as a result, these companies may contribute significantly less than anticipated to our equity earnings and cash flow, negatively impacting our results of operations and liquidity. strikes or other forms of work stoppage or slowdown could disrupt our business and lead to increased costs. our financial performance is dependent on a reliable and productive work force. a significant portion of our workforce is covered by collective bargaining agreements with unions. unsuccessful contract negotiations or adverse labor relations could result in strikes or slowdowns. any disruptions may decrease our production and sales or impose additional costs to resolve disputes. the risk of adverse labor relations may increase as our profitability increases because labor unions expectations and demands generally rise at those times. accidents occurring in the course of our operating activities could result in significant liabilities, interruptions or shutdowns of facilities or the need for significant safety or other expenditures. we engage in mining and industrial activities that can result in serious accidents. mining, in particular, can be a dangerous activity. if our safety procedures are not effective, we could be subject to liabilities arising out of personal injuries or death, our operations could be interrupted and we might have to shut down or abandon affected facilities. accidents could cause us to expend significant amounts to remediate safety issues or to repair damaged facilities. for example: our esterhazy mine has had an inflow of brine for more than 20 years. at various times, we have experienced new or increased inflows at the mine. the esterhazy mine is not insured against the risk of floods and water inflows and the costs to control the brine inflows could increase in future years. the brine inflows, risk to employees or remediation costs could also cause us to change our mining process or abandon this mine, which in turn could significantly negatively impact our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources. since december 1985, we have had inflows of salt saturated brine into our esterhazy, saskatchewan mine. over the past century, several potash mines experiencing water inflow problems have flooded. in order to control brine inflows at esterhazy, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, expenditures, certain of which due to their nature have been capitalized, while others have been charged to expense. at various times, we have experienced new or increased brine inflows at the esterhazy mine. for example, in late 2006, we identified a new salt saturated brine inflow in a mined out area located approximately 7,500 feet from our existing brine inflow management area. initial data suggested that the new inflow was at the rate of 20,000 to 25,000 gallons per minute, which was significantly greater than the highest inflow rates that we had successfully managed (approximately 10,000 to 15,000 gallons per minute) at the esterhazy mine since 1985. without abatement, and assuming our initial estimates to be 38 table of contents accurate, we estimated that we had storage capacity to handle the new brine inflow for several months before adversely affecting production at the esterhazy mine. our remediation efforts included grouting that reduced the level of the inflows to approximately historical rates and pumping to reduce the level of brine in the mine. see potash net sales and gross margin in our management analysis for a discussion of costs and other information relating to the brine inflows. inflow rate measurements reflect an estimate as of a particular point in time, and depending on when tests are conducted, rates can fluctuate up or down. there can be no assurance that: the pumping, grouting and other measures that we use to mitigate the inflows at the esterhazy mine will continue to be successful in mitigating the inflows; our estimates of the volumes of the brine inflow or storage capacity for brine at the esterhazy mine are accurate; the volumes of the brine inflows will not fluctuate from time to time, the rate of the brine inflows will not be greater than our current assumptions and that any such fluctuations or increases would not be material; or the expenditures to control the inflows will be consistent with our current estimates. it is possible that the costs of remedial efforts at esterhazy may further increase beyond our current estimates in the future and that such an increase could be material, or, in the extreme scenario, that the water inflows, risk to employees or remediation costs may increase to a level which would cause us to change our mining process or abandon the mine. due to the ongoing brine inflow problem at esterhazy, underground operations at this facility are currently not insurable for water incursion problems. our mines at colonsay, saskatchewan, and carlsbad, new mexico, are also subject to the risks of inflow of water as a result of our shaft mining operations. some of our mines are subject to potential damage from earthquakes. the excavation of mines can result in potential seismic events or can increase the likelihood or potential severity of a seismic event. the rise and fall of water levels, such as those arising from the brine inflows and our remediation activities at our esterhazy mine, can also result in or increase the likelihood or potential severity of a seismic event. our esterhazy mine has experienced minor seismic events from time to time. a significant seismic event at one of our mines could result in damage to or flooding of the mine or, in the extreme scenario, cause us to change our mining process or abandon the mine. we experienced a fire at our esterhazy mine in 2006. if our emergency procedures had not been successful, we might have had significant injuries or deaths. mine operations were halted while we investigated the origin of the fire. in january 2006, we experienced a fire at our esterhazy mine. at the time of the fire, there were 72 mine workers underground. these mine workers were safely evacuated the following day. we halted operations at our esterhazy mine for over a week during our investigation of the origin of the fire. any failure of our safety procedures in the future could result in serious injuries or death, or lengthier shutdowns, which could result in significant liabilities and/or impact on the financial performance of our potash business, including a possible material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. any fire at our shaft mines at colonsay, saskatchewan and carlsbad, new mexico, could have a similar effect on us. 39 table of contents we handle significant quantities of ammonia at several of our facilities. if our safety procedures are not effective, an accident involving our ammonia operations could result in serious injuries or death, or result in the shutdown of our facilities. we produce ammonia at our faustina, louisiana phosphate concentrates plant, use ammonia in significant quantities at all of our florida and louisiana phosphates concentrates plants and store ammonia at some of our distribution facilities. for our florida phosphates concentrates plants, ammonia is received at terminals in tampa and transported by pipelines to our facilities. our ammonia is generally stored and transported at high pressures. an accident could occur that could result in serious injuries or death, or the evacuation of areas near an accident. an accident could also result in property damage or the shutdown of our florida or louisiana phosphates concentrates plants, the ammonia terminals or pipelines serving those plants or our other ammonia storage and handling facilities. as a result, an accident involving ammonia could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we also use or produce other hazardous or volatile chemicals at some of our facilities. if our safety procedures are not effective, an accident involving these other hazardous or volatile chemicals could result in serious injuries or death, or result in the shutdown of our facilities. we use sulfuric acid in the production of concentrated phosphates in our florida and louisiana operations. our louisiana facilities produce fluorosilicic acid, which is a hazardous chemical, for resale to third parties. we also use or produce other hazardous or volatile chemicals at some of our facilities. an accident involving any of these chemicals could result in serious injuries or death, or evacuation of areas near an accident. an accident could also result in property damage or shutdown of our facilities, or cause us to expend significant amounts to remediate safety issues or to repair damaged facilities. as a result, an accident involving any of these chemicals could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. for example, in october 2006, an explosion occurred at our faustina, louisiana ammonia plant, which is located adjacent to our phosphate production facility. as a result, the ammonia plant was idle for repairs until mid-january 2007. deliberate, malicious acts, including terrorism, could damage our facilities, disrupt our operations or injure employees, contractors, customers or the public and result in liability to us. intentional acts of destruction could hinder our sales or production and disrupt our supply chain. our facilities could be damaged or destroyed, reducing our operational production capacity and requiring us to repair or replace our facilities at substantial cost. employees, contractors and the public could suffer substantial physical injury for which we could be liable. governmental authorities may impose security or other requirements that could make our operations more difficult or costly. the consequences of any such actions could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by changing antitrust laws to which we are subject. increases in crop nutrient prices can increase the scrutiny to which we are subject under these laws. we are subject to antitrust and competition laws in various countries throughout the world. we cannot predict how these laws or their interpretation, administration and enforcement will change over time. changes in antitrust laws globally, or in their interpretation, administration or enforcement, may limit our existing or future operations and growth, or the operations of canpotex limited and the phosphate chemicals export association, inc., which serve as export associations for our potash and phosphates businesses, respectively. increases in crop nutrient prices have in the past resulted in increased scrutiny of the crop nutrient industry under antitrust and competition laws and can increase the risk that these laws could be interpreted, administered or enforced in a manner that could affect our operating practices or impose liability on us in a manner that could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 40 table of contents we may be adversely affected by other changes in laws resulting from increases in food and crop nutrient prices. increases in prices for, among other things, food, fuel and crop inputs (including crop nutrients) have in the past been the subject of significant discussion by various governmental bodies and officials throughout the world. in response to increases, it is possible that governments in one of more of the locations in which we operate or where we or our competitors sell our products could take actions that could affect us. such actions could include, among other matters, changes in governmental policies relating to agriculture and biofuels (including changes in subsidy levels), price controls, tariffs, windfall profits taxes or export or import taxes. any such actions could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our competitive position could be adversely affected if we are unable to participate in continuing industry consolidation. most of our products are readily available from a number of competitors, and price and other competition in the crop nutrient industry is intense. in addition, crop nutrient production facilities and distribution activities frequently benefit from economies of scale. as a result, particularly during pronounced cyclical troughs, the crop nutrient industry has a long history of consolidation. mosaic itself is the result of a number of industry consolidations. we expect consolidation among crop nutrient producers could continue. our competitive position could suffer to the extent we are not able to expand our own resources either through consolidations, acquisitions, joint ventures or partnerships. in the future, we may not be able to find suitable companies to combine with, assets to purchase or joint venture or partnership opportunities to pursue. even if we are able to locate desirable opportunities, we may not be able to enter into transactions on economically acceptable terms. if we do not successfully participate in continuing industry consolidation, our ability to compete successfully could be adversely affected and result in the loss of customers or an uncompetitive cost structure, which could adversely affect our sales and profitability. our risk management strategy may not be effective. our businesses are affected by fluctuations in market prices for our products, the purchase price of natural gas, ammonia and sulfur consumed in operations, freight and shipping costs and foreign currency exchange rates. we periodically enter into derivatives and forward purchase contracts to mitigate some of these risks. however, our strategy may not be successful in minimizing our exposure to these fluctuations. see market risk in our management analysis and note 15 of our consolidated financial statements that is incorporated by reference in this report in part ii, item 8. a shortage of railcars, barges and ships for carrying our products and the raw materials we use in our business could result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of production or sales, and higher transportation or equipment costs. we rely heavily upon truck, rail, barge and ocean freight transportation to obtain the raw materials we need and to deliver our products to our customers. in addition, the cost of transportation is an important part of the final sale price of our products. finding affordable and dependable transportation is important in obtaining our raw materials and to supply our customers. higher costs for these transportation services or an interruption or slowdown due to factors including high demand, high fuel prices, labor disputes, layoffs or other factors affecting the availability of qualified transportation workers, adverse weather or other environmental events, or changes to rail, barge or ocean freight systems, could negatively affect our ability to produce our products or deliver them to our customers, which could affect our performance and results of operations. strong demand for grain and other products and a strong world economy increase the demand for and reduce the availability of transportation, both domestically and internationally. shortages of railcars, barges and ocean transport for carrying product and increased transit time may result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of sales and 41 table of contents higher equipment and transportation costs. in addition, during periods when the shipping industry has a shortage of ships the substantial time needed to build new ships prevents rapid market response. delays and missed shipments due to transportation shortages, including vessels, barges, railcars and trucks, could result in customer dissatisfaction or loss of sales potential, which could negatively affect our performance and results of operations. a lack of customers access to credit can adversely affect their ability to purchase our products. the global economic crisis has adversely affected our customers access to credit and may continue to do so in the future. some of our customers require access to credit to purchase our products. the global economic crisis has reduced the availability of credit to borrowers worldwide. a lack of available credit was one of several significant factors that adversely affected international customers demand for crop nutrients in some countries in our fiscal year ended may 31, 2009. continued lack of access to credit by our international customers in these countries, or a lack of available credit to customers in other countries, due to the global economic crisis or for other reasons, could further adversely affect demand for crop nutrients. we extend trade credit to our customers and guarantee the financing that some of our customers use to purchase our products. our results of operations may be adversely affected if these customers are unable to repay the trade credit from us or financing from their banks. increases in prices for crop nutrient, other agricultural inputs and grain may increase this risk. we extend trade credit to our customers in the united states and throughout the world, in some cases for extended periods of time. in brazil, where there are fewer third-party financing sources available to farmers, we also have several programs under which we guarantee customers financing from financial institutions that they use to purchase our products. as our exposure to longer trade credit extended throughout the world and use of guarantees in brazil increases, we are increasingly exposed to the risk that some of our customers will not pay us or the amounts we have guaranteed. additionally, we become increasingly exposed to risk due to weather and crop growing conditions, fluctuations in commodity prices or foreign currencies, and other factors that influence the price, supply and demand for agricultural commodities. significant defaults by our customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. increases in prices for crop nutrients increase the dollar amount of our sales to customers. the larger dollar value of our customers purchases may also lead them to request longer trade credit from us and/or increase their need for us to guarantee their financing of our products. either factor could increase the amount of our exposure to the risk that our customers may be unable to repay the trade credit from us or financing from their banks that we guarantee. in addition, increases in prices for other agricultural inputs and grain may increase the working capital requirements, indebtedness and other liabilities of our customers, increase the risk that they will default on the trade credit from us or their financing that we guarantee, and decrease the likelihood that we will be able to collect from our customers in the event of their default. cargill status as a significant stockholder and its representation on our board of directors may create conflicts of interest with our other stockholders and could cause us to take actions that may not be beneficial to our other stockholders or that our other stockholders do not support. as of may 31, 2009, cargill owned 64.3% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. in addition, seven cargill nominees are members of our twelve-member board of directors. accordingly, cargill effectively controls our strategic direction and significant corporate transactions, and its interests in these matters may conflict with the interests of other stockholders of mosaic. as a result, cargill could cause us to take actions that may not be beneficial to our other stockholders or that our other stockholders do not support. 42 table of contents cargill significant ownership interest in mosaic and our classified board of directors and other anti-takeover provisions could deter an acquisition proposal for mosaic that other stockholders may consider favorable. because cargill is the owner of a majority of the shares of our common stock, a third party will not be able to acquire control of us without cargill consent because cargill could vote its shares of our common stock against any takeover proposal submitted for stockholder approval. in addition, we have a classified board of directors and other takeover defenses in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. cargill ownership interest in us and these other anti-takeover provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals for us and could delay or prevent a change of control of mosaic. these deterrents could make it very difficult for non-cargill holders to remove or replace members of our board of directors or management, which could be detrimental to our other stockholders. our stockholders may be adversely affected by the expiration of the standstill restrictions in our investor rights agreement with cargill, which enables cargill to, among other things, increase its ownership percentage of our common stock above 64.3% or seek additional representation on our board of directors, any of which could have an impact on the price of our common stock. our stockholders may also be adversely affected if cargill were to transfer all or a significant percentage of its interest in our common stock to a third party. until they expired on october 22, 2008, standstill provisions in our investor rights agreement with cargill restricted cargill from acquiring additional shares of our common stock from our public stockholders and taking other specified actions as a stockholder of mosaic. following the expiration of the standstill period, cargill is free to increase its ownership interest in our common stock. purchases of additional shares of our common stock by cargill could result in lower trading volumes for our common stock and make it difficult for stockholders to sell shares of our common stock. in addition, cargill is permitted to sell its shares of our common stock. cargill sale or transfer of a significant number of shares of our common stock could create a decline in the price of our common stock. furthermore, if cargill sales or transfers were made to a single buyer or group of buyers, it could result in a third party acquiring effective control of mosaic. until the expiration of the standstill period, the investor rights agreement also required that cargill vote its shares of mosaic common stock for the slate of director nominees recommended by the mosaic board of directors, and that cargill would cause its nominees on the mosaic board of directors to recommend the four directors designated by imc or the successors designated by the imc-designated directors. because the standstill period has expired, cargill is now free to seek to increase its representation on the mosaic board of directors above seven members. this action could further increase cargill control over mosaic and deter or delay an acquisition of mosaic thereby having a negative impact on the price of our common stock. our success will increasingly depend on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified and motivated employees. we believe our continued success depends on the collective abilities and efforts of our employees. like many businesses, a significant number of our employees, including some of our most highly skilled employees with specialized expertise in potash and phosphates operations, will be approaching retirement age throughout the next decade and beyond. in addition, we compete for a talented workforce with other businesses, particularly within the mining and chemicals industries in general and the crop nutrients industry in particular. our expansion plans are highly dependent on our ability to retain and to attract and train highly qualified and motivated employees who are essential to the success of our ongoing operations as well as to our expansion plans. if we were to be unsuccessful in retaining, attracting and training the employees we require, our ongoing operations and expansion plans could be materially and adversely affected. 43 table of contents the success of our potash expansion plans and other strategic initiatives depends on our ability to effectively manage these initiatives. we have initiated several significant strategic initiatives, principally our plans to expand the annual production capacity of our potash business by more than five million tonnes of finished product by 2020. these strategic initiatives involve capital and other expenditures of several billions of dollars over a number of years and require effective project management. to the extent the processes we put in place to manage these initiatives are not effective, our capital expenditure and other costs may exceed our expectations or the benefits we expect from these initiatives might not be fully realized. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we have included a discussion about market risks under market risk in our management analysis. this information is incorporated herein by reference. 46 table of contentsrisk factors 25 risk factors our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the risks and uncertainties described below. additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operating results are highly dependent upon and fluctuate based upon business and economic conditions and governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry where we or our customers operate. these factors are outside of our control and may significantly affect our profitability. our operating results are highly dependent upon business and economic conditions and governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, which we cannot control. the agricultural products business can be affected by a number of factors. the most important of these factors, for u.s. markets, are: weather patterns and field conditions (particularly during periods of traditionally high crop nutrients consumption); quantities of crop nutrients imported to and exported from north america; current and projected grain inventories and prices, which are heavily influenced by u.s. exports and world-wide grain markets; and u.s. governmental policies, including farm and biofuel policies, which may directly or indirectly influence the number of acres planted, the level of grain inventories, the mix of crops planted or crop prices. 25 table of contents international market conditions, which are also outside of our control, may also significantly influence our operating results. the international market for crop nutrients is influenced by such factors as the relative value of the u.s. dollar and its impact upon the cost of importing crop nutrients, foreign agricultural policies, the existence of, or changes in, import or foreign currency exchange barriers in certain foreign markets, changes in the hard currency demands of certain countries and other regulatory policies of foreign governments, as well as the laws and policies of the united states affecting foreign trade and investment. our most important products are global commodities, and we face intense global competition from other crop nutrient producers that can affect our prices and volumes. our most important products are concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, including diammonium phosphate, or dap, and monoammonium phosphate, or map, and muriate of potash, or mop. we sell most of our dap, map and mop in the form of global commodities. our sales of these products face intense global competition from other crop nutrient producers. changes in competitors production or shifts in their marketing focus have in the past significantly affected both the prices at which we sell our products and the volumes that we sell, and are likely to continue to do so in the future. competitors are more likely to increase their production at times when world agricultural and crop nutrient markets are strong, and to focus on sales into regions where their returns are highest. increases in the global supply of dap, map and mop or competitors increased sales into regions in which we have significant sales could adversely affect our prices and volumes. competitors and potential new entrants in the markets for both concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and potash have announced plans to expand capacity over the next several years. the extent to which current global or local economic and financial conditions, changes in global or local economic and financial conditions, or other factors may cause delays or cancellation of some of these projects, or result in the acceleration of existing or new projects, is unclear. in addition, the level of exports by producers of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients in china depends to a significant extent on chinese government actions to curb exports through, among other measures, prohibitive export taxes at times when the government believes it desirable to assure ample domestic supplies of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients to stimulate grain and oilseed production. we cannot accurately predict when or whether competitors capacity expansions will be completed, the impact of future decisions by the chinese government on the level of chinese exports of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, or the effects of these or other actions by our competitors on the prices for our products or the volumes that we are able to sell. our crop nutrients and other products are subject to price and demand volatility resulting from periodic imbalances of supply and demand, which may cause our results of operations to fluctuate. historically, the market for crop nutrients has been cyclical, and prices and demand for our products have fluctuated to a significant extent, particularly for phosphates and, to a lesser extent, potash. periods of high demand, increasing profits and high capacity utilization tend to lead to new plant investment and increased production. this growth increases supply until the market is over-saturated, leading to declining prices and declining capacity utilization until the cycle repeats. as a result, crop nutrient prices and volumes have been volatile. this price and volume volatility may cause our results of operations to fluctuate and potentially deteriorate. the price at which we sell our crop nutrient products and our sales volumes could fall in the event of industry oversupply conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in contrast, high prices may lead our customers and farmers to delay purchasing decisions in anticipation of future lower prices, thus impacting our sales volumes. 26 table of contents due to reduced market demand, depressed agricultural economic conditions and other factors, we and our predecessors have at various times suspended or reduced production at some of our facilities. the extent to which we utilize available capacity at our facilities will cause fluctuations in our results of operations, as we will incur costs for any temporary or indefinite shutdowns of our facilities and lower sales tends to lead to higher fixed costs as a percentage of sales. variations in crop nutrient application rates may exacerbate the cyclicality of the crop nutrient markets. farmers are able to maximize their economic return by applying optimum amounts of crop nutrients. farmers decisions about the application rate for each crop nutrient, or to forego application of a crop nutrient, particularly phosphate and potash, vary from year to year depending on a number of factors, including among others, crop prices, crop nutrient and other crop input costs or the level of the crop nutrient remaining in the soil following the previous harvest. farmers are more likely to increase application rates when crop prices are relatively high, crop nutrient and other crop input costs are relatively low and the level of the crop nutrient remaining in the soil is relatively low. conversely, farmers are likely to reduce or forego application when farm economics are weak or declining or the level of the crop nutrients remaining in the soil is relatively high. this variability in application rates can materially accentuate the cyclicality in prices for our products and our sales volumes. our crop nutrient business is seasonal, which may result in carrying significant amounts of inventory and seasonal variations in working capital, and our inability to predict future seasonal crop nutrient demand accurately may result in excess inventory or product shortages. the crop nutrient business is seasonal. farmers tend to apply crop nutrients during two short application periods, the strongest one in the spring before planting and the other in the fall after harvest. as a result, the strongest demand for our products typically occurs during the spring planting season, with a second period of strong demand following the fall harvest. in contrast, we and other crop nutrient producers generally produce our products throughout the year. as a result, we and/or our customers generally build inventories during the low demand periods of the year in order to ensure timely product availability during the peak sales seasons. the seasonality of crop nutrient demand results in our sales volumes and net sales typically being the highest during the north american spring season and our working capital requirements typically being the highest just prior to the start of the spring season. our quarterly financial results can vary significantly from one year to the next due to weather-related shifts in planting schedules and purchasing patterns. if seasonal demand exceeds our projections, we will not have enough product and our customers may acquire products from our competitors, which would negatively impact our profitability. if seasonal demand is less than we expect, we will be left with excess inventory and higher working capital and liquidity requirements. the degree of seasonality of our business can change significantly from year to year due to conditions in the agricultural industry and other factors. the distribution channels for crop nutrients have capacity to build significant levels of inventories. significant levels of inventories in the distribution channels for crop nutrients can adversely affect our sales volumes and selling prices. in order to balance the production needs of crop nutrient producers with farmers seasonal use of crop nutrients, crop nutrient distribution channels need to have the capacity to build significant inventories. the build-up of inventories in the distribution channels can become excessive, particularly during the cyclical periods of low demand that have been typical in the crop nutrient industry. when there are excessive inventories in the distribution channel, our sales volumes and selling prices can be adversely impacted, even during periods in which farmers use of crop nutrients may remain strong. for example, a build-up of concentrated phosphates and potash in the distribution channels was one of several significant factors that led to softening selling prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and weakened sales volumes for both concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and potash in our fiscal year ended may 31, 2009. 27 table of contents changes in transportation costs can affect our sales volumes and selling prices. the cost of delivery is a significant factor in the total cost to customers and farmers of crop nutrients. as a result, changes in transportation costs or in customer expectations about them can affect our sales volumes and prices. customer expectations about future events can have a significant effect on the demand for our products. these expectations can significantly affect our sales volumes and selling prices. customer expectations about future events has had and is expected to continue to have an effect on the demand and prices for crop nutrients. the future events that may be affected by customer expectations include, among others: customer expectations about future crop nutrient prices and availability. customer expectations about selling prices and availability of crop nutrients has had and is expected to continue to have an effect on the demand for crop nutrients. when customers anticipate increasing crop nutrient selling prices, customers tend to accumulate inventories before the anticipated price increases. this can result in a lag in our realization of rising market prices for our products. conversely, customers tend to delay their purchases when they anticipate future selling prices for crop nutrients will stabilize or decrease, adversely affecting our sales volumes and selling prices. customer expectations about availability of crop nutrients can have similar effects on sales volumes and prices. for example, during portions of fiscal 2009, our customers anticipated a decline in the market price of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients because of falling global prices for sulfur and ammonia, two of the key raw materials used in the production of concentrated phosphates. our customers expectation of falling prices was one of several significant factors that led to weak sales volumes and softening selling prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients during portions of fiscal 2009. customer expectations about future farmer economics. similarly, customer expectations about future farmer economics has had and is expected to continue to have an effect on the demand for crop nutrients. when customers anticipate improving farmer economics, customers tend to accumulate crop nutrient inventories in anticipation of increasing sales volumes and selling prices. this can result in a lag in our realization of rising market prices for our products. conversely, when customers anticipate declining farmer economics, customers tend to reduce the level of their purchases of crop nutrients, adversely affecting our sales volumes and selling prices. for example, a plunge in market prices for grains and oilseeds since peaks in june 2008 led customers to expect declining farmer economics. the expectation of declining farmer economics was one of several significant factors that led to softening selling prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and weak sales volumes for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and potash during portions of fiscal 2009. changes in customer expectations about transportation costs. as more fully discussed above, increasing transportation costs effectively increase customers and farmers costs for crop nutrients and can reduce the amount we realize for our sales. expectations of decreasing transportation costs can result in customers and farmers anticipating that they may be able to decrease their costs by delaying purchases. as a result, changes in customer expectations about transportation costs can affect our sales volumes and prices. 28 table of contents we conduct our operations primarily through a limited number of key production and distribution facilities. any disruption at one of these facilities could have a material adverse impact on our business. the risk of material disruption increases when demand for our products results in high operating rates at our facilities. we conduct our operations through a limited number of key production and distribution facilities. these large facilities include our phosphate mines and concentrates plants, our potash mines and the ports and other distribution facilities through which we conduct our business. any disruption of operations at one of these facilities has the possibility of significantly affecting our production or our ability to distribute our products. operating these facilities at high rates during periods of high demand for our products increases the risk of mechanical or structural failures, decreases the time available for routine maintenance and increases the impact on our operating results from any disruption. we maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance policies, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. we are subject to various self-retentions and deductibles under these insurance policies. as a result of market conditions, our premiums, self-retentions and deductibles for insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. in addition, significantly increased costs could lead us to decide to reduce, or possibly eliminate, coverage. as a result, a disruption of operations at one of our key facilities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition. important raw materials and energy used in our businesses in the past have been and may in the future be the subject of volatile pricing. changes in the price of our raw materials could have a material impact on our businesses. natural gas, ammonia and sulfur are key raw materials used in the manufacture of phosphate crop nutrient products. natural gas is used as both a chemical feedstock and a fuel to produce anhydrous ammonia, which is a raw material used in the production of dap and map. natural gas is also a significant energy source used in the potash solution mining process. from time to time, our profitability has been and may in the future be impacted by the price and availability of these raw materials and other energy costs. because our products are commodity-like, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass through increased costs to our customers. a significant increase in the price of natural gas, ammonia, sulfur or energy costs that is not recovered through an increase in the price of our related crop nutrients products could have a material impact on our business. during periods when the price for concentrated phosphates is falling because of falling raw material prices, we may experience a lag in realizing the benefits of the falling raw materials prices. this lag can adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. during some periods, changes in market prices for raw materials can lead to changes in the global market prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients. in particular, the global market prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients can be affected by changes in the market prices for sulfur, ammonia, phosphate rock and/or phosphoric acid raw materials. increasing market prices for these raw materials tend to put upward pressure on the selling prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, and decreasing market prices for these raw materials tend to put downward pressure on selling prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients. when the market prices for these raw materials plunge rapidly, the selling prices for our concentrated phosphate crop nutrients can fall more rapidly than we are able to consume our raw material inventory that we purchased or committed to purchase in the past at higher prices. as a result, our costs may not fall as rapidly as the selling prices of our products. until we are able to consume the higher priced raw materials, our gross margins and profitability can be adversely affected. 29 table of contents during periods when the prices for our products are falling because of falling raw material prices, we could be required to write down the value of our inventories. any such write-down would adversely affect our results of operations and the level of our assets. we carry our inventories at the lower of cost or market. in periods when the market prices for our products are falling rapidly in response to falling market prices for raw materials, it is possible that we could be required to write down the value of our inventories if market prices fall below our costs. any such write-down would adversely affect our results of operations and the level of our assets. any such effect could be material. for example, in our fiscal quarter ended november 30, 2008, we recorded lower of cost or market inventory write-downs principally in our phosphates segment. these lower of cost or market inventory write-downs, which totaled $293.5 million, were necessary because the carrying cost of certain ending inventories exceeded our estimates of future selling prices less reasonably predictable selling costs. our estimates of future selling prices reflect in part the purchase commitments we have from our customers. as a result, defaults on these existing purchase commitments because of the global or local economic and financial conditions or for other reasons could adversely affect our estimates of future selling prices and require additional inventory write-downs. in the event of a disruption to existing transportation or terminaling facilities for raw materials, alternative transportation and terminaling facilities might not have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our facilities. in the event of a disruption of existing transportation or terminaling facilities for raw materials, alternative transportation and terminaling facilities might not have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our facilities. an extended interruption in the supply of natural gas, ammonia or sulfur to our production facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to risks associated with our international sales and operations, which could negatively affect our sales to customers in foreign countries as well as our operations and assets in foreign countries. some of these factors may also make it less attractive to distribute cash generated by our operations outside the united states to our stockholders, or to utilize cash generated by our operations in one country to fund our operations or repayments of indebtedness in another country or to support other corporate purposes. for fiscal 2010, we derived approximately 65% of our net sales from customers located outside of the united states. as a result, we are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: difficulties and costs associated with complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory environments; increased government ownership and regulation of the economy in the countries we serve; political and economic instability, including the possibility for civil unrest, inflation and adverse economic conditions resulting from governmental attempts to reduce inflation, such as imposition of higher interest rates and wage and price controls; nationalization of properties by foreign governments; 30 table of contents the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls, trade barriers or other restrictions; and currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies, particularly the brazilian real and the canadian dollar. the occurrence of any of the above in the countries in which we operate or elsewhere could jeopardize or limit our ability to transact business there and could adversely affect our revenues and operating results and the value of our assets located outside of the united states. in addition, tax regulations, currency exchange controls and other restrictions may also make it economically unattractive to: distribute cash generated by our operations outside the united states to our stockholders, or utilize cash generated by our operations in one country to fund our operations or repayments of indebtedness in another country or to support other corporate purposes. our international assets are located in countries with volatile conditions, which could subject us and our assets to significant risks. we are a global business with substantial assets located outside of the united states and canada. our operations in brazil, argentina, chile, china and india are a fundamental part of our business. volatile economic, political and market conditions in these and other emerging market countries may have a negative impact on our operations, operating results and financial condition. adverse weather conditions, including the impact of potential hurricanes and excess rainfall, have in the past, and may in the future, adversely affect our operations, particularly our phosphates business, and result in increased costs, decreased production and potential liabilities. adverse weather conditions, including the impact of potential hurricanes and excess rainfall, have in the past and may in the future adversely affect our operations, particularly our phosphates business. in the past, hurricanes have resulted in minor physical damage to our facilities in florida and louisiana. in addition, a release of phosphoric acid process wastewater at our riverview, florida facility during a hurricane resulted in a small civil fine, as well as a private class action lawsuit and claims for natural resource damages by governmental agencies. more significantly, water treatment costs, particularly at our florida operations, due to high water balances tend to increase significantly following excess rainfall from hurricanes and other adverse weather. some of our florida facilities have high water levels that may, from time to time, require treatment. the high water balances at phosphate facilities in florida also led the florida department of environmental protection to adopt new rules requiring phosphate production facilities to meet more stringent process water management objectives for phosphogypsum management systems. if additional excess rainfall or hurricanes continue to occur in coming years, our facilities may be required to take additional measures to manage process water to comply with existing or future requirements and these measures could potentially have a material effect on our business and financial condition. adverse weather may also cause a loss of production due to disruptions in our supply chain. for example, following hurricane katrina in louisiana in 2005, oil refineries that supply sulfur to us were closed and incoming shipments of ammonia were delayed, disrupting production at our louisiana facilities. 31 table of contents our operations are dependent on having the required permits and approvals from governmental authorities. denial or delay by a government agency in issuing any of our permits and approvals or imposition of restrictive conditions on us with respect to these permits and approvals may impair our business and operations. we hold numerous governmental environmental, mining and other permits and approvals authorizing operations at each of our facilities. a decision by a government agency to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations at the affected facility. expansion of our operations also is predicated upon securing the necessary environmental or other permits or approvals. over the next several years, we and our subsidiaries will be continuing our efforts to obtain permits in support of our anticipated florida mining operations at certain of our properties. a denial of, or delay in issuing, these permits, the issuance of permits with cost-prohibitive conditions, legal actions that prevent us from relying on permits or revocation of permits, could prevent us from mining at these properties and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for example: in florida, local community participation has become an important factor in the permitting process for mining companies, and various local counties and other parties in florida have in the past and continue to file lawsuits challenging the issuance of some of the permits we require. in fiscal 2009 environmental groups for the first time filed a lawsuit in federal court against the u.s. army corps of engineers with respect to its issuance of a federal wetlands permit. delays in receiving a federal wetlands permit impacted the scheduled progression of mining activities for the extension of our south fort meade, florida, phosphate rock mine into hardee county. as a result, we began to experience idle time with a portion of our mining equipment at the mine in the latter part of fiscal 2010. on june 14, 2010, the u.s. army corps of engineers issued the federal wetlands permit. we subsequently initiated site preparation activities to begin mining the extension property in the third quarter of calendar 2010. on june 30, 2010, certain environmental groups filed a lawsuit contesting the issuance of the federal wetlands permit, alleging that the issuance of the permit violates several federal laws relating to the protection of the environment and was arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, and otherwise not in accordance with law. on july 1, 2010, the court issued a temporary restraining order prohibiting the corps and us from conducting any activities in reliance on the federal wetlands permit issued by the corps. the temporary restraining order remains in effect through july 28, 2010 unless modified or extended by the court. the court also held a hearing on plaintiffs motion for a preliminary injunction on july 22, 2010. if a preliminary injunction is entered by the court and mining of the hardee county extension is not permitted, we expect that we will need to shut down, in whole or in part, mining activities at the south fort meade mine for an indefinite period of time, resulting in layoffs of employees, significant costs to suspend operations, idle plant costs and possible other adverse impacts on our phosphates operations. we have included additional discussion about permitting for our phosphate mines in florida, including the lawsuit contesting the issuance of the federal wetlands permit for the extension of our south fort meade mine into hardee county, under environmental, health and safety matters permitting in our management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in note 21 of our consolidated financial statements. this information is incorporated herein by reference. 32 table of contents we are subject to financial assurance requirements as part of our routine business operations. these financial assurance requirements affect our costs and increase our liquidity requirements. if we were unable to satisfy applicable financial assurance requirements, we might not be able to obtain or maintain permits we need to operate our business as we have in the past. our need to comply with these requirements could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. in many cases, as a condition to procuring or maintaining permits and approvals or otherwise, we are required to comply with financial assurance regulatory requirements. the purpose of these requirements is to provide comfort to the government that sufficient funds will be available for the ultimate closure, post-closure care and/or reclamation of our facilities. in most cases, these financial assurance requirements can be satisfied without the need for any expenditure of corporate funds to the extent our financial statements meet certain balance sheet and income statement financial strength tests. in the event that we are unable to satisfy these financial strength tests, we must utilize alternative methods of complying with the financial assurance requirements or could be subject to enforcement proceedings brought by relevant government agencies. potential alternative methods of compliance include negotiating a consent decree that imposes alternative financial assurance or other conditions or, alternatively, providing credit support in the form of cash escrows, surety bonds from insurance companies, letters of credit from banks, or other forms of financial instruments or collateral to satisfy the financial assurance requirements. use of these alternative means of financial assurance imposes additional expense on us. some of them, such as letters of credit, also use a portion of our available liquidity. other alternative means of financial assurance, such as surety bonds, may in some cases require collateral and generally require us to obtain a discharge of the bonds or to post additional collateral (typically in the form of cash or letters of credit) at the request of the issuer of the bonds. collateral that is required may be in many forms including letters of credit or other financial instruments that utilize a portion of our available liquidity, or in the form of assets such as real estate, which reduces our flexibility to manage or sell assets. in the past, we have not always been able to satisfy applicable financial strength tests, and in the future, it is possible that we will not be able to pass the applicable financial strength tests, negotiate consent decrees, establish escrow accounts or obtain letters of credit, surety bonds or other financial instruments on acceptable terms and conditions or at a reasonable cost, or that the form and/or cost of compliance could increase, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. the other environmental regulations to which we are subject may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition to permitting and financial assurance requirements, we are subject to numerous other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the u.s., canada, china, brazil and other countries where we operate. these laws and regulations govern a wide range of matters, including environmental controls, land reclamation, discharges to air and water and remediation of hazardous substance releases. they significantly affect our operating activities as well as the level of our operating costs and capital expenditures. in some international jurisdictions, environmental laws change frequently and it may be difficult for us to determine if we are in compliance with all material environmental laws at any given time. we are, and may in the future be, involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that could be material to us. these proceedings include legacy matters arising from activities of our predecessor companies and from facilities and businesses that we have never owned or operated. we have in the past been, are currently and may in the future be subject to legal and regulatory proceedings that could be material to our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. these proceedings may be brought by the government or private parties and may arise out of a variety of matters, including: allegations by the government or private parties that we have violated the permitting, financial assurance or other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations discussed above. for example, the u.s. environmental protection agency is engaged in an ongoing review of mineral processing 33 table of contents industries, including us and other phosphoric acid producers, under the u.s. resource conservation and recovery act. we are also involved in other proceedings alleging that, or to review whether, we have violated environmental laws in the united states and brazil. other environmental, health and safety matters, including alleged personal injury, wrongful death, property damage, subsidence from mining operations, natural resource damages and other damage to the environment, arising out of operations, including accidents. for example, several actions were initiated by the government and private parties related to releases of phosphoric acid process wastewater at our riverview, florida facility during the hurricanes in 2004. antitrust, commercial, tax and other disputes. for example, we are currently one of a number of defendants in multiple class-action lawsuits, in which the plaintiffs seek unspecified amounts of damages including treble damages, alleging that we and other defendants conspired to, among other matters, fix the price at which potash was sold in the united states, allocated market shares and customers and fraudulently concealed their anticompetitive conduct. the legal and regulatory proceedings to which we are currently or may in the future be subject can, depending on the circumstances, result in monetary damage awards, fines, penalties, other liabilities, injunctions or other court or administrative rulings that interrupt, impede or otherwise materially affect our business operations, and/or criminal sanctions. among other environmental laws, the u.s. comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act imposes liability, including for cleanup costs, without regard to fault or to the legality of a party conduct, on certain categories of persons, including current and former owners and operators of a site and parties who are considered to have contributed to the release of hazardous substances into the environment. under cercla, or various u.s. state analogs, one party may, under certain circumstances, be required to bear more than its proportional share of cleanup costs at a site where it has liability if payments cannot be obtained from other responsible parties. as a crop nutrient company working with chemicals and other hazardous substances, we will periodically incur liabilities and cleanup costs, under cercla and other environmental laws, with regard to our current or former facilities, adjacent or nearby third party facilities or offsite disposal locations. pending and potential legal and regulatory proceedings may arise out of our present activities, including operations at current facilities. they may also arise out of past activities by us, our predecessor companies and subsidiaries that our predecessors have sold. these past activities were in some cases at facilities that we and our subsidiaries no longer own or operate and may have never owned or operated. we have included additional information with respect to pending legal and regulatory proceedings in note 21 of our consolidated financial statements and in this report in part i, item 3, legal proceedings . these legal and regulatory proceedings involve inherent uncertainties and could negatively impact our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. the permitting, financial assurance and other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations to which we are subject may become more stringent over time. this could increase the effects on us of these laws and regulations, and the increased effects could be material. continued government and public emphasis on environmental, health and safety issues in the u.s., canada, china, brazil and other countries where we operate can be expected to result in requirements that apply to us and our operations that are more stringent than those that are described above and elsewhere in this report. these more stringent requirements may include among other matters increased levels of future investments and expenditures for environmental controls at ongoing operations which will be charged against income from future operations, increased levels of the financial assurance requirements to which we are subject, increased efforts or 34 table of contents costs to obtain permits or denial of permits, and other matters that could increase our expenses, capital requirements or liabilities or adversely affect our business, liquidity or financial condition. in addition, to the extent restrictions imposed in countries where our competitors operate, such as china, india, former soviet union countries or morocco, are less stringent than in the countries where we operate, our competitors could gain cost or other competitive advantages over us. these effects could be material. among other matters, in january 2010, the u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ) proposed a rule that would impose numeric criteria for the discharge of nitrogen and/or phosphorous into florida lakes and streams. the epa proposed criteria would limit the discharge of nitrogen and/or phosphorous into florida lakes and streams, and these levels could require us and other entities to control or limit these discharges substantially below current levels. we are evaluating the impact of the proposed criteria on our operations. we cannot predict whether epa will finalize a numeric nutrient criteria rule, what the final terms of such a rule would be, whether prospective compliance with such a rule would adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, or whether any such adverse effects could be material to us. regulatory restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions in the united states, canada or elsewhere could adversely affect us, and these effects could be material. various governmental initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions are under way or under consideration around the world. these initiatives could restrict our operating activities, require us to make changes in our operating activities that would increase our operating costs, reduce our efficiency or limit our output, require us to make capital improvements to our facilities, increase our energy, raw material and transportation costs or limit their availability, or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, and these effects could be material to us. governmental greenhouse gas emission initiatives include among others: initiatives in the united states : epa regulations. in december 2009, the epa finalized its previously proposed endangerment finding under the clean air act that motor vehicles are sources of greenhouse gases that are reasonably anticipated to endanger public health and welfare. subsequently, on may 13, 2010, the epa issued its final prevention of significant deterioration ( psd ) and title v greenhouse gas tailoring rule (the tailoring rule ). under the tailoring rule, (i) beginning in january 2011, sources that are currently subject to the psd requirements that undergo modifications that increase their greenhouse gas emissions by 75,000 short tons per year will be subject to psd permitting requirements for greenhouse gas emissions and (ii) beginning in july 2011, new projects that are not otherwise subject to the psd requirements will become subject to psd requirements if they emit greenhouse gas emissions of more than 100,000 short tons per year. congressional legislation. the u.s. house of representatives has passed legislation that would establish a comprehensive program to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. this legislation could mandate increased use of renewable energy sources, increased energy efficiency, and an economy-wide emission cap and trade program. many other bills have been introduced both in the u.s. house of representatives and the u.s. senate. state initiatives. the florida department of environmental protection ( fdep ) is conducting rulemaking proceedings to develop a greenhouse gas cap and trade regulatory program applicable to electric utilities. some public documents and discussions that are part of the fdep rulemaking process have considered our phosphates business segment electricity cogeneration facilities to be includable in such a regulatory program. 35 table of contents initiatives in canada kyoto protocol . in december 2002, the prime minister of canada ratified the kyoto protocol, committing canada to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions on average to six percent below 1990 levels through the first commitment period (2008-2012). developments in canada efforts to reduce greenhouse gases include: in march 2008, canada announced a new climate change plan for canada which established a target of reducing greenhouse gases 20% from 2006 levels by 2020. in may 2009, the minister of environment indicated implementation may be delayed to assure sufficient alignment with the evolving approach in the u.s. to avoid trade sanctions. in may 2009, the province of saskatchewan, in which our canadian potash mines are located, began to consider legislation intended to lead to the development and administration of climate change regulation in saskatchewan by the province rather than the federal government. key elements under consideration by the province include a primary focus on achieving the 20% reduction by 2020 through technological advancements; creation of a technology fund to allow large final emitters of greenhouse gases to obtain required greenhouse gas emission credits by paying into the fund and using this fund for approved research and development projects targeted primarily at applied technological improvements; and creation of a green foundation fund intended to be used more broadly for grass roots research and development. international initiatives. although international negotiations concerning greenhouse gas emission reductions and other responses to climate change are underway, final obligations in the post-kyoto protocol period after 2012 remain undefined. any new international agreements addressing climate change could adversely affect our operating activities, energy, raw material and transportation costs, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, and these effects could be material. in addition, to the extent climate change restrictions imposed in countries where our competitors operate, such as china, india, former soviet union countries or morocco, are less stringent than in the united states or canada, our competitors could gain cost or other competitive advantages over us. future climate change could adversely affect us, and these effects could be material. the prospective impact of potential climate change on our operations and those of our customers and farmers remains uncertain. some scientists have hypothesized that the impacts of climate change could include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperature levels and that these changes could be severe. these impacts could vary by geographic location. at the present time, we cannot predict the prospective impact of potential climate change on our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, or whether any such effects could be material to us. some of our competitors and potential competitors have greater resources than we do which may place us at a competitive disadvantage and adversely affect our sales and profitability. these competitors include state-owned and government-subsidized entities in other countries. we compete with a number of producers in north america and throughout the world, including state-owned and government-subsidized entities. some of these entities may have greater total resources than we do, and may be less dependent on earnings from crop nutrients sales than we are. in addition, some of these entities may have access to lower cost or government-subsidized natural gas supplies, placing us at a competitive disadvantage. furthermore, governments as owners of some of our competitors may be willing to accept lower prices and profitability on their products in order to support domestic employment or other political or social goals. to the extent other producers of crop nutrients enjoy competitive advantages or are willing to accept lower profit levels, the price of our products, our sales volumes and our profits may be adversely affected. 36 table of contents we have substantial cash balances that we invest in what we believe to be relatively short-term, highly liquid and high credit quality investments. we intend the investment risks, including counterparty default and lack of liquidity, on these types of investments to be relatively low, but market rates of return on these types of investments are also generally relatively low. in addition, our efforts to manage the investment risks could be unsuccessful. this could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. our significant cash flows from operations have resulted in cash and cash-equivalents of approximately $2.5 billion at may 31, 2010. our cash and cash-equivalents should continue to increase when we generate cash from operations, except to the extent we reinvest in our business or make distributions to our stockholders. we generally invest these cash and cash-equivalents in what we believe to be relatively short-term, highly liquid and high credit quality instruments. because of these characteristics of our cash and cash-equivalents, the market rates of return on them are lower than our expectations for the return on capital invested in our business operations. moreover, our efforts to manage investment risk by focusing our investing on short-term, highly liquid and high credit quality investments could prove unsuccessful. the likelihood that our efforts to manage investment risk might prove unsuccessful is heightened during times when there is significant turmoil in the financial markets. as a result, counterparties could default on their obligations to us, or the liquidity of financial instruments that we hold could become impaired. any such event could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we do not own a controlling equity interest in our non-consolidated companies, some of which are foreign companies, and therefore our operating results and cash flow may be materially affected by how the governing boards and majority owners operate such businesses. there may also be limitations on monetary distributions from these companies that are outside of our control. together, these factors may lower our equity earnings or cash flow from such businesses and negatively impact our results of operations. we hold several minority ownership interests in crop nutrient manufacturing or distribution companies that are not controlled by us. as some of these companies are significant to us, their results of operations materially affect our equity earnings. because we do not control these companies either at the board or stockholder levels and because local laws in foreign jurisdictions and contractual obligations may place restrictions on monetary distributions by these companies, we cannot ensure that these companies will operate efficiently, pay dividends, or generally follow the desires of our management by virtue of our board or stockholder representation. as a result, these companies may contribute significantly less than anticipated to our equity earnings and cash flow, negatively impacting our results of operations and liquidity. strikes or other forms of work stoppage or slowdown could disrupt our business and lead to increased costs. our financial performance is dependent on a reliable and productive work force. a significant portion of our workforce is covered by collective bargaining agreements with unions. unsuccessful contract negotiations or adverse labor relations could result in strikes or slowdowns. any disruptions may decrease our production and sales or impose additional costs to resolve disputes. the risk of adverse labor relations may increase as our profitability increases because labor unions expectations and demands generally rise at those times. accidents occurring in the course of our operating activities could result in significant liabilities, interruptions or shutdowns of facilities or the need for significant safety or other expenditures. we engage in mining and industrial activities that can result in serious accidents. mining, in particular, can be a dangerous activity. if our safety procedures are not effective, we could be subject to liabilities arising out of personal injuries or death, our operations could be interrupted and we might have to shut down or abandon affected facilities. accidents could cause us to expend significant amounts to remediate safety issues or to repair damaged facilities. for example: our esterhazy mine has had an inflow of brine for more than 20 years. at various times, we have experienced new or increased inflows at the mine. the esterhazy mine is not insured against the 37 table of contents risk of floods and water inflows and the costs to control the brine inflows could increase in future years. the brine inflows, risk to employees or remediation costs could also cause us to change our mining process or abandon this mine, which in turn could significantly negatively impact our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources. since december 1985, we have had inflows of salt saturated brine into our esterhazy, saskatchewan mine. over the past century, several potash mines experiencing water inflow problems have flooded. in order to control brine inflows at esterhazy, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, expenditures, certain of which due to their nature have been capitalized, while others have been charged to expense. at various times, we have experienced new or increased brine inflows at the esterhazy mine. for example, in late 2006, we identified a new salt saturated brine inflow in a mined out area located approximately 7,500 feet from our existing brine inflow management area. initial data suggested that the new inflow was at the rate of 20,000 to 25,000 gallons per minute, which was significantly greater than the highest inflow rates that we had successfully managed (approximately 10,000 to 15,000 gallons per minute) at the esterhazy mine since 1985. without abatement, and assuming our initial estimates to be accurate, we estimated that we had storage capacity to handle the new brine inflow for several months before adversely affecting production at the esterhazy mine. our remediation efforts included grouting that reduced the level of the inflows to approximately historical rates and pumping to reduce the level of brine in the mine. see potash net sales and gross margin in our management analysis for a discussion of costs and other information relating to the brine inflows. inflow rate measurements reflect an estimate as of a particular point in time, and depending on when tests are conducted, rates can fluctuate up or down. there can be no assurance that: the pumping, grouting and other measures that we use to mitigate the inflows at the esterhazy mine will continue to be successful in mitigating the inflows; our estimates of the volumes of the brine inflow or storage capacity for brine at the esterhazy mine are accurate; the volumes of the brine inflows will not fluctuate from time to time, the rate of the brine inflows will not be greater than our current assumptions and that any such fluctuations or increases would not be material; or the expenditures to control the inflows will be consistent with our current estimates. it is possible that the costs of remedial efforts at esterhazy may further increase beyond our current estimates in the future and that such an increase could be material, or, in the extreme scenario, that the water inflows, risk to employees or remediation costs may increase to a level which would cause us to change our mining process or abandon the mine. due to the ongoing brine inflow problem at esterhazy, underground operations at this facility are currently not insurable for water incursion problems. our mines at colonsay, saskatchewan, and carlsbad, new mexico, are also subject to the risks of inflow of water as a result of our shaft mining operations. some of our mines are subject to potential damage from earthquakes. the excavation of mines can result in potential seismic events or can increase the likelihood or potential severity of a seismic event. the rise and fall of water levels, such as those arising from the brine inflows and our remediation activities at our esterhazy mine, can also result in or increase the likelihood or potential severity of a seismic event. our esterhazy mine has experienced minor seismic events from time to time. a significant seismic event at one of our mines could result in damage to or flooding of the mine or, in the extreme scenario, cause us to change our mining process or abandon the mine. 38 table of contents our underground potash shaft mines are subject to risk from fire. in the event of a fire, if our emergency procedures are not successful, we could have significant injuries or deaths. in addition, fire at one of our underground shaft mines could halt our operations at the affected mine while we investigate the origin of the fire or for longer periods for remedial work or otherwise. our underground potash shaft mines at esterhazy, saskatchewan, colonsay, saskatchewan and carlsbad, new mexico are subject to risk from fire, for example, in january 2006, we experienced a fire at our esterhazy mine. at the time of the fire, there were 72 mine workers underground. these mine workers were safely evacuated the following day. we halted operations at our esterhazy mine for over a week during our investigation of the origin of the fire. any failure of our safety procedures in the future could result in serious injuries or death, or lengthier shutdowns, which could result in significant liabilities and/or impact on the financial performance of our potash business, including a possible material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we handle significant quantities of ammonia at several of our facilities. if our safety procedures are not effective, an accident involving our ammonia operations could result in serious injuries or death, or result in the shutdown of our facilities. we produce ammonia at our faustina, louisiana phosphate concentrates plant, use ammonia in significant quantities at all of our florida and louisiana phosphates concentrates plants and store ammonia at some of our distribution facilities. for our florida phosphates concentrates plants, ammonia is received at terminals in tampa and transported by pipelines to our facilities. our ammonia is generally stored and transported at high pressures. an accident could occur that could result in serious injuries or death, or the evacuation of areas near an accident. an accident could also result in property damage or the shutdown of our florida or louisiana phosphates concentrates plants, the ammonia terminals or pipelines serving those plants or our other ammonia storage and handling facilities. as a result, an accident involving ammonia could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we also use or produce other hazardous or volatile chemicals at some of our facilities. if our safety procedures are not effective, an accident involving these other hazardous or volatile chemicals could result in serious injuries or death, or result in the shutdown of our facilities. we use sulfuric acid in the production of concentrated phosphates in our florida and louisiana operations. some of our florida and louisiana facilities produce fluorosilicic acid, which is a hazardous chemical, for resale to third parties. we also use or produce other hazardous or volatile chemicals at some of our facilities. an accident involving any of these chemicals could result in serious injuries or death, or evacuation of areas near an accident. an accident could also result in property damage or shutdown of our facilities, or cause us to expend significant amounts to remediate safety issues or to repair damaged facilities. as a result, an accident involving any of these chemicals could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. for example, in october 2006, an explosion occurred at our faustina, louisiana ammonia plant, which is located adjacent to our phosphate production facility. as a result, the ammonia plant was idle for repairs until mid-january 2007. deliberate, malicious acts, including terrorism, could damage our facilities, disrupt our operations or injure employees, contractors, customers or the public and result in liability to us. intentional acts of destruction could hinder our sales or production and disrupt our supply chain. our facilities could be damaged or destroyed, reducing our operational production capacity and requiring us to repair or replace our facilities at substantial cost. employees, contractors and the public could suffer substantial physical injury for which we could be liable. governmental authorities may impose security or other requirements that could make our operations more difficult or costly. the consequences of any such actions could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 39 table of contents we may be adversely affected by changing antitrust laws to which we are subject. increases in crop nutrient prices can increase the scrutiny to which we are subject under these laws. we are subject to antitrust and competition laws in various countries throughout the world. we cannot predict how these laws or their interpretation, administration and enforcement will change over time. changes in antitrust laws globally, or in their interpretation, administration or enforcement, may limit our existing or future operations and growth, or the operations of canpotex limited and the phosphate chemicals export association, inc., which serve as export associations for our potash and phosphates businesses, respectively. increases in crop nutrient prices have in the past resulted in increased scrutiny of the crop nutrient industry under antitrust and competition laws and can increase the risk that these laws could be interpreted, administered or enforced in a manner that could affect our operating practices or impose liability on us in a manner that could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by other changes in laws resulting from increases in food and crop nutrient prices. increases in prices for, among other things, food, fuel and crop inputs (including crop nutrients) have in the past been the subject of significant discussion by various governmental bodies and officials throughout the world. in response to increases, it is possible that governments in one of more of the locations in which we operate or where we or our competitors sell our products could take actions that could affect us. such actions could include, among other matters, changes in governmental policies relating to agriculture and biofuels (including changes in subsidy levels), price controls, tariffs, windfall profits taxes or export or import taxes. any such actions could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our competitive position could be adversely affected if we are unable to participate in continuing industry consolidation. most of our products are readily available from a number of competitors, and price and other competition in the crop nutrient industry is intense. in addition, crop nutrient production facilities and distribution activities frequently benefit from economies of scale. as a result, particularly during pronounced cyclical troughs, the crop nutrient industry has a long history of consolidation. mosaic itself is the result of a number of industry consolidations. we expect consolidation among crop nutrient producers could continue. our competitive position could suffer to the extent we are not able to expand our own resources either through consolidations, acquisitions, joint ventures or partnerships. in the future, we may not be able to find suitable companies to combine with, assets to purchase or joint venture or partnership opportunities to pursue. even if we are able to locate desirable opportunities, we may not be able to enter into transactions on economically acceptable terms. if we do not successfully participate in continuing industry consolidation, our ability to compete successfully could be adversely affected and result in the loss of customers or an uncompetitive cost structure, which could adversely affect our sales and profitability. our risk management strategy may not be effective. our businesses are affected by fluctuations in market prices for our products, the purchase price of natural gas, ammonia and sulfur consumed in operations, freight and shipping costs and foreign currency exchange rates. we periodically enter into derivatives and forward purchase contracts to mitigate some of these risks. however, our strategy may not be successful in minimizing our exposure to these fluctuations. see market risk in our management analysis and note 15 of our consolidated financial statements that is incorporated by reference in this report in part ii, item 8. a shortage of railcars, barges and ships for carrying our products and the raw materials we use in our business could result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of production or sales, and higher transportation or equipment costs. we rely heavily upon truck, rail, barge and ocean freight transportation to obtain the raw materials we need and to deliver our products to our customers. in addition, the cost of transportation is an important part of the final 40 table of contents sale price of our products. finding affordable and dependable transportation is important in obtaining our raw materials and to supply our customers. higher costs for these transportation services or an interruption or slowdown due to factors including high demand, high fuel prices, labor disputes, layoffs or other factors affecting the availability of qualified transportation workers, adverse weather or other environmental events, or changes to rail, barge or ocean freight systems, could negatively affect our ability to produce our products or deliver them to our customers, which could affect our performance and results of operations. strong demand for grain and other products and a strong world economy increase the demand for and reduce the availability of transportation, both domestically and internationally. shortages of railcars, barges and ocean transport for carrying product and increased transit time may result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of sales and higher equipment and transportation costs. in addition, during periods when the shipping industry has a shortage of ships the substantial time needed to build new ships prevents rapid market response. delays and missed shipments due to transportation shortages, including vessels, barges, railcars and trucks, could result in customer dissatisfaction or loss of sales potential, which could negatively affect our performance and results of operations. a lack of customers access to credit can adversely affect their ability to purchase our products. some of our customers require access to credit to purchase our products. a lack of available credit to customers in one or more countries, due to the global or local economic conditions or for other reasons, could adversely affect demand for crop nutrients. for example, the recent global economic crisis reduced the availability of credit to borrowers worldwide. a lack of available credit was one of several significant factors that adversely affected international customers demand for crop nutrients in some countries in our fiscal year ended may 31, 2009. we extend trade credit to our customers and guarantee the financing that some of our customers use to purchase our products. our results of operations may be adversely affected if these customers are unable to repay the trade credit from us or financing from their banks. increases in prices for crop nutrient, other agricultural inputs and grain may increase this risk. we extend trade credit to our customers in the united states and throughout the world, in some cases for extended periods of time. in brazil, where there are fewer third-party financing sources available to farmers, we also have several programs under which we guarantee customers financing from financial institutions that they use to purchase our products. as our exposure to longer trade credit extended throughout the world and use of guarantees in brazil increases, we are increasingly exposed to the risk that some of our customers will not pay us or the amounts we have guaranteed. additionally, we become increasingly exposed to risk due to weather and crop growing conditions, fluctuations in commodity prices or foreign currencies, and other factors that influence the price, supply and demand for agricultural commodities. significant defaults by our customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. increases in prices for crop nutrients increase the dollar amount of our sales to customers. the larger dollar value of our customers purchases may also lead them to request longer trade credit from us and/or increase their need for us to guarantee their financing of our products. either factor could increase the amount of our exposure to the risk that our customers may be unable to repay the trade credit from us or financing from their banks that we guarantee. in addition, increases in prices for other agricultural inputs and grain may increase the working capital requirements, indebtedness and other liabilities of our customers, increase the risk that they will default on the trade credit from us or their financing that we guarantee, and decrease the likelihood that we will be able to collect from our customers in the event of their default. cargill status as a significant stockholder and its representation on our board of directors may create conflicts of interest with our other stockholders and could cause us to take actions that may not be beneficial to our other stockholders or that our other stockholders do not support. as of may 31, 2010, cargill owned 64.2% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. in addition, seven cargill nominees are members of our twelve-member board of directors. accordingly, cargill effectively 41 table of contents controls our strategic direction and significant corporate transactions, and its interests in these matters may conflict with the interests of other stockholders of mosaic. as a result, cargill could cause us to take actions that may not be beneficial to our other stockholders or that our other stockholders do not support. cargill significant ownership interest in mosaic and our classified board of directors and other anti-takeover provisions could deter an acquisition proposal for mosaic that other stockholders may consider favorable. because cargill is the owner of a majority of the shares of our common stock, a third party will not be able to acquire control of us without cargill consent because cargill could vote its shares of our common stock against any takeover proposal submitted for stockholder approval. in addition, we have a classified board of directors and other takeover defenses in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. cargill ownership interest in us and these other anti-takeover provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals for us and could delay or prevent a change of control of mosaic. these deterrents could make it very difficult for non-cargill holders to remove or replace members of our board of directors or management, which could be detrimental to our other stockholders. our stockholders may be adversely affected if cargill were to, among other things, increase its ownership percentage of our common stock above 64.2% or seek additional representation on our board of directors, any of which could have an impact on the price of our common stock. our stockholders may also be adversely affected if cargill were to transfer all or a significant percentage of its interest in our common stock to a third party. cargill is free to increase its ownership interest in our common stock. purchases of additional shares of our common stock by cargill could result in lower trading volumes for our common stock and make it difficult for stockholders to sell shares of our common stock. in addition, cargill is permitted to sell its shares of our common stock. cargill sale or transfer of a significant number of shares of our common stock could create a decline in the price of our common stock. furthermore, if cargill sales or transfers were made to a single buyer or group of buyers, it could result in a third party acquiring effective control of mosaic. cargill is also free to seek to increase its representation on the mosaic board of directors above seven members. this action could further increase cargill control over mosaic and deter or delay an acquisition of mosaic thereby having a negative impact on the price of our common stock. our success will increasingly depend on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified and motivated employees. we believe our continued success depends on the collective abilities and efforts of our employees. like many businesses, a significant number of our employees, including some of our most highly skilled employees with specialized expertise in potash and phosphates operations, will be approaching retirement age throughout the next decade and beyond. in addition, we compete for a talented workforce with other businesses, particularly within the mining and chemicals industries in general and the crop nutrients industry in particular. our expansion plans are highly dependent on our ability to retain and to attract and train highly qualified and motivated employees who are essential to the success of our ongoing operations as well as to our expansion plans. if we were to be unsuccessful in retaining, attracting and training the employees we require, our ongoing operations and expansion plans could be materially and adversely affected. the success of our potash expansion plans and other strategic initiatives depends on our ability to effectively manage these initiatives. we have initiated several significant strategic initiatives, principally our plans to expand the annual production capacity of our potash business by more than five million tonnes of finished product by 2020. these strategic 42 table of contents initiatives involve capital and other expenditures of several billions of dollars over a number of years and require effective project management. to the extent the processes we put in place to manage these initiatives are not effective, our capital expenditure and other costs may exceed our expectations or the benefits we expect from these initiatives might not be fully realized. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we have included a discussion about market risks under market risk in our management analysis. this information is incorporated herein by reference. 45 table of contentsrisk factors 28 risk factors our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the risks and uncertainties described below. our operating results are highly dependent upon and fluctuate based upon business and economic conditions and governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry where we or our customers operate. these factors are outside of our control and may significantly affect our profitability. our operating results are highly dependent upon business and economic conditions and governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, which we cannot control. the agricultural products business can be affected by a number of factors. the most important of these factors, for u.s. markets, are: weather patterns and field conditions (particularly during periods of traditionally high crop nutrients consumption); quantities of crop nutrients imported to and exported from north america; current and projected grain inventories and prices, which are heavily influenced by u.s. exports and world-wide grain markets; and u.s. governmental policies, including farm and biofuel policies, which may directly or indirectly influence the number of acres planted, the level of grain inventories, the mix of crops planted or crop prices. international market conditions, which are also outside of our control, may also significantly influence our operating results. the international market for crop nutrients is influenced by such factors as the relative value of the u.s. dollar and its impact upon the cost of importing crop nutrients, foreign agricultural policies, the existence of, or changes in, import or foreign currency exchange barriers in certain foreign markets, changes in the hard currency demands of certain countries and other regulatory policies of foreign governments, as well as the laws and policies of the united states affecting foreign trade and investment. our most important products are global commodities, and we face intense global competition from other crop nutrient producers that can affect our prices and volumes. our most important products are concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, including diammonium phosphate, or dap, and monoammonium phosphate, or map, and muriate of potash, or mop. we sell most of our dap, map and mop in the form of global commodities. our sales of these products face intense global competition from other crop nutrient producers. changes in competitors production or shifts in their marketing focus have in the past significantly affected both the prices at which we sell our products and the volumes that we sell, and are likely to continue to do so in the future. competitors are more likely to increase their production at times when world agricultural and crop nutrient markets are strong, and to focus on sales into regions where their returns are highest. increases in the global supply of dap, map and mop or competitors increased sales into regions in which we have significant sales could adversely affect our prices and volumes. 28 table of contents competitors and potential new entrants in the markets for both concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and potash have announced plans to expand capacity over the next several years. the extent to which current global or local economic and financial conditions, changes in global or local economic and financial conditions, or other factors may cause delays or cancellation of some of these projects, or result in the acceleration of existing or new projects, is unclear. in addition, the level of exports by producers of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients in china depends to a significant extent on chinese government actions to curb exports through, among other measures, prohibitive export taxes at times when the government believes it desirable to assure ample domestic supplies of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients to stimulate grain and oilseed production. we cannot accurately predict when or whether competitors capacity expansions will be completed, the impact of future decisions by the chinese government on the level of chinese exports of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, or the effects of these or other actions by our competitors on the prices for our products or the volumes that we are able to sell. our crop nutrients and other products are subject to price and demand volatility resulting from periodic imbalances of supply and demand, which may cause our results of operations to fluctuate. historically, the market for crop nutrients has been cyclical, and prices and demand for our products have fluctuated to a significant extent, particularly for phosphates and, to a lesser extent, potash. periods of high demand, increasing profits and high capacity utilization tend to lead to new plant investment and increased production. this growth increases supply until the market is over-saturated, leading to declining prices and declining capacity utilization until the cycle repeats. as a result, crop nutrient prices and volumes have been volatile. this price and volume volatility may cause our results of operations to fluctuate and potentially deteriorate. the price at which we sell our crop nutrient products and our sales volumes could fall in the event of industry oversupply conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in contrast, high prices may lead our customers and farmers to delay purchasing decisions in anticipation of future lower prices, thus impacting our sales volumes. due to reduced market demand, depressed agricultural economic conditions and other factors, we and our predecessors have at various times suspended or reduced production at some of our facilities. the extent to which we utilize available capacity at our facilities will cause fluctuations in our results of operations, as we will incur costs for any temporary or indefinite shutdowns of our facilities and lower sales tend to lead to higher fixed costs as a percentage of sales. variations in crop nutrient application rates may exacerbate the cyclicality of the crop nutrient markets. farmers are able to maximize their economic return by applying optimum amounts of crop nutrients. farmers decisions about the application rate for each crop nutrient, or to forego application of a crop nutrient, particularly phosphate and potash, vary from year to year depending on a number of factors, including among others, crop prices, crop nutrient and other crop input costs or the level of the crop nutrient remaining in the soil following the previous harvest. farmers are more likely to increase application rates when crop prices are relatively high, crop nutrient and other crop input costs are relatively low and the level of the crop nutrient remaining in the soil is relatively low. conversely, farmers are likely to reduce or forego application when farm economics are weak or declining or the level of the crop nutrients remaining in the soil is relatively high. this variability in application rates can materially accentuate the cyclicality in prices for our products and our sales volumes. our crop nutrient business is seasonal, which may result in carrying significant amounts of inventory and seasonal variations in working capital, and our inability to predict future seasonal crop nutrient demand accurately may result in excess inventory or product shortages. the crop nutrient business is seasonal. farmers tend to apply crop nutrients during two short application periods, the strongest one in the spring before planting and the other in the fall after harvest. as a result, the strongest 29 table of contents demand for our products typically occurs during the spring planting season, with a second period of strong demand following the fall harvest. in contrast, we and other crop nutrient producers generally produce our products throughout the year. as a result, we and/or our customers generally build inventories during the low demand periods of the year in order to ensure timely product availability during the peak sales seasons. the seasonality of crop nutrient demand results in our sales volumes and net sales typically being the highest during the north american spring season and our working capital requirements typically being the highest just prior to the start of the spring season. our quarterly financial results can vary significantly from one year to the next due to weather-related shifts in planting schedules and purchasing patterns. if seasonal demand exceeds our projections, we will not have enough product and our customers may acquire products from our competitors, which would negatively impact our profitability. if seasonal demand is less than we expect, we will be left with excess inventory and higher working capital and liquidity requirements. the degree of seasonality of our business can change significantly from year to year due to conditions in the agricultural industry and other factors. the distribution channels for crop nutrients have capacity to build significant levels of inventories. significant levels of inventories in the distribution channels for crop nutrients can adversely affect our sales volumes and selling prices. in order to balance the production needs of crop nutrient producers with farmers seasonal use of crop nutrients, crop nutrient distribution channels need to have the capacity to build significant inventories. the build-up of inventories in the distribution channels can become excessive, particularly during the cyclical periods of low demand that have been typical in the crop nutrient industry. when there are excessive inventories in the distribution channel, our sales volumes and selling prices can be adversely impacted, even during periods in which farmers use of crop nutrients may remain strong. for example, a build-up of concentrated phosphates and potash in the distribution channels was one of several significant factors that led to softening selling prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and weakened sales volumes for both concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and potash in our fiscal year ended may 31, 2009. changes in transportation costs can affect our sales volumes and selling prices. the cost of delivery is a significant factor in the total cost to customers and farmers of crop nutrients. as a result, changes in transportation costs or in customer expectations about them can affect our sales volumes and prices. customer expectations about future events can have a significant effect on the demand for our products. these expectations can significantly affect our sales volumes and selling prices. customer expectations about future events has had and is expected to continue to have an effect on the demand and prices for crop nutrients. the future events that may be affected by customer expectations include, among others: customer expectations about future crop nutrient prices and availability. customer expectations about selling prices and availability of crop nutrients has had and is expected to continue to have an effect on the demand for crop nutrients. when customers anticipate increasing crop nutrient selling prices, customers tend to accumulate inventories before the anticipated price increases. this can result in a lag in our realization of rising market prices for our products. conversely, customers tend to delay their purchases when they anticipate future selling prices for crop nutrients will stabilize or decrease, adversely affecting our sales volumes and selling prices. customer expectations about availability of crop nutrients can have similar effects on sales volumes and prices. 30 table of contents for example, during portions of fiscal 2009, our customers anticipated a decline in the market price of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients because of falling global prices for sulfur and ammonia, two of the key raw materials used in the production of concentrated phosphates. our customers expectation of falling prices was one of several significant factors that led to weak sales volumes and softening selling prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients during portions of fiscal 2009. customer expectations about future farmer economics. similarly, customer expectations about future farmer economics has had and is expected to continue to have an effect on the demand for crop nutrients. when customers anticipate improving farmer economics, customers tend to accumulate crop nutrient inventories in anticipation of increasing sales volumes and selling prices. this can result in a lag in our realization of rising market prices for our products. conversely, when customers anticipate declining farmer economics, customers tend to reduce the level of their purchases of crop nutrients, adversely affecting our sales volumes and selling prices. for example, a plunge in market prices for grains and oilseeds since peaks in june 2008 led customers to expect declining farmer economics. the expectation of declining farmer economics was one of several significant factors that led to softening selling prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and weak sales volumes for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and potash during portions of fiscal 2009. changes in customer expectations about transportation costs. as more fully discussed above, increasing transportation costs effectively increase customers and farmers costs for crop nutrients and can reduce the amount we realize for our sales. expectations of decreasing transportation costs can result in customers and farmers anticipating that they may be able to decrease their costs by delaying purchases. as a result, changes in customer expectations about transportation costs can affect our sales volumes and prices. we conduct our operations primarily through a limited number of key production and distribution facilities. any disruption at one of these facilities could have a material adverse impact on our business. the risk of material disruption increases when demand for our products results in high operating rates at our facilities. we conduct our operations through a limited number of key production and distribution facilities. these large facilities include our phosphate mines and concentrates plants, our potash mines and the ports and other distribution facilities through which we conduct our business. any disruption of operations at one of these facilities has the possibility of significantly affecting our production or our ability to distribute our products. operating these facilities at high rates during periods of high demand for our products increases the risk of mechanical or structural failures, decreases the time available for routine maintenance and increases the impact on our operating results from any disruption. a disruption of operations at one of our key facilities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. insurance market conditions, our loss experience and other factors affect the insurance coverage that we carry, and we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. as a result, our insurance coverage may not adequately cover our losses. we maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance policies, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. we are subject to various self-retentions and deductibles under these insurance policies. as a result of market conditions, our loss experience and other factors, our premiums, self-retentions and deductibles for insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. in addition, significantly increased costs could lead us to decide to reduce, or possibly eliminate, coverage. as a result, a disruption of operations at one of our key facilities or a significant casualty could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition. 31 table of contents important raw materials and energy used in our businesses in the past have been and may in the future be the subject of volatile pricing. changes in the price of our raw materials could have a material impact on our businesses. natural gas, ammonia and sulfur are key raw materials used in the manufacture of phosphate crop nutrient products. natural gas is used as both a chemical feedstock and a fuel to produce anhydrous ammonia, which is a raw material used in the production of dap and map. natural gas is also a significant energy source used in the potash solution mining process. from time to time, our profitability has been and may in the future be impacted by the price and availability of these raw materials and other energy costs. because our products are commodity-like, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass through increased costs to our customers. a significant increase in the price of natural gas, ammonia, sulfur or energy costs that is not recovered through an increase in the price of our related crop nutrients products could have a material impact on our business. during periods when the price for concentrated phosphates is falling because of falling raw material prices, we may experience a lag in realizing the benefits of the falling raw materials prices. this lag can adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. during some periods, changes in market prices for raw materials can lead to changes in the global market prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients. in particular, the global market prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients can be affected by changes in the market prices for sulfur, ammonia, phosphate rock and/or phosphoric acid raw materials. increasing market prices for these raw materials tend to put upward pressure on the selling prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, and decreasing market prices for these raw materials tend to put downward pressure on selling prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients. when the market prices for these raw materials plunge rapidly, the selling prices for our concentrated phosphate crop nutrients can fall more rapidly than we are able to consume our raw material inventory that we purchased or committed to purchase in the past at higher prices. as a result, our costs may not fall as rapidly as the selling prices of our products. until we are able to consume the higher priced raw materials, our gross margins and profitability can be adversely affected. during periods when the prices for our products are falling because of falling raw material prices, we could be required to write down the value of our inventories. any such write-down would adversely affect our results of operations and the level of our assets. we carry our inventories at the lower of cost or market. in periods when the market prices for our products are falling rapidly in response to falling market prices for raw materials, it is possible that we could be required to write down the value of our inventories if market prices fall below our costs. any such write-down would adversely affect our results of operations and the level of our assets. any such effect could be material. for example, in our fiscal quarter ended november 30, 2008, we recorded lower of cost or market inventory write-downs principally in our phosphate and offshore segments. these lower of cost or market inventory write-downs, which totaled $293.5 million, were necessary because the carrying cost of certain ending inventories exceeded our estimates of future selling prices less reasonably predictable selling costs. our estimates of future selling prices reflect in part the purchase commitments we have from our customers. as a result, defaults on these existing purchase commitments because of the global or local economic and financial conditions or for other reasons could adversely affect our estimates of future selling prices and require additional inventory write-downs. in the event of a disruption to existing transportation or terminaling facilities for raw materials, alternative transportation and terminaling facilities might not have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our facilities. in the event of a disruption of existing transportation or terminaling facilities for raw materials, alternative transportation and terminaling facilities might not have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our facilities. 32 table of contents an extended interruption in the supply of natural gas, ammonia or sulfur to our production facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to risks associated with our international sales and operations, which could negatively affect our sales to customers in foreign countries as well as our operations and assets in foreign countries. some of these factors may also make it less attractive to distribute cash generated by our operations outside the united states to our stockholders, or to utilize cash generated by our operations in one country to fund our operations or repayments of indebtedness in another country or to support other corporate purposes. for fiscal 2011, we derived approximately 65% of our net sales from customers located outside of the united states. as a result, we are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: difficulties and costs associated with complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory environments; increased government ownership and regulation of the economy in the countries we serve; political and economic instability, including the possibility for civil unrest, inflation and adverse economic conditions resulting from governmental attempts to reduce inflation, such as imposition of higher interest rates and wage and price controls; nationalization of properties by foreign governments; the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls, trade barriers or other restrictions; and currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies, particularly the brazilian real and the canadian dollar. the occurrence of any of the above in the countries in which we operate or elsewhere could jeopardize or limit our ability to transact business there and could adversely affect our revenues and operating results and the value of our assets located outside of the united states. in addition, tax regulations, currency exchange controls and other restrictions may also make it economically unattractive to: distribute cash generated by our operations outside the united states to our stockholders, or utilize cash generated by our operations in one country to fund our operations or repayments of indebtedness in another country or to support other corporate purposes. our international assets are located in countries with volatile conditions, which could subject us and our assets to significant risks. we are a global business with substantial assets located outside of the united states and canada. our operations in brazil, argentina, chile, china and india are a fundamental part of our business, and we recently invested in a mine in peru that supplies phosphate rock to us. volatile economic, political and market conditions in these and other emerging market countries may have a negative impact on our operations, operating results and financial condition. 33 table of contents adverse weather conditions, including the impact of potential hurricanes and excess rainfall, have in the past, and may in the future, adversely affect our operations, particularly our phosphates business, and result in increased costs, decreased production and potential liabilities. adverse weather conditions, including the impact of potential hurricanes and excess rainfall, have in the past and may in the future adversely affect our operations, particularly our phosphates business. in the past, hurricanes have resulted in minor physical damage to our facilities in florida and louisiana. in addition, a release of phosphoric acid process wastewater at our riverview, florida facility during a hurricane resulted in a small civil fine, as well as a private class action lawsuit and claims for natural resource damages by governmental agencies. more significantly, water treatment costs, particularly at our florida operations, due to high water balances tend to increase significantly following excess rainfall from hurricanes and other adverse weather. some of our florida facilities have high water levels that may, from time to time, require treatment. the high water balances at phosphate facilities in florida also led the florida department of environmental protection to adopt new rules requiring phosphate production facilities to meet more stringent process water management objectives for phosphogypsum management systems. if additional excess rainfall or hurricanes continue to occur in coming years, our facilities may be required to take additional measures to manage process water to comply with existing or future requirements and these measures could potentially have a material effect on our business and financial condition. adverse weather may also cause a loss of production due to disruptions in our supply chain. for example, following hurricane katrina in louisiana in 2005, oil refineries that supply sulfur to us were closed and incoming shipments of ammonia were delayed, disrupting production at our louisiana facilities. our operations are dependent on having the required permits and approvals from governmental authorities. denial or delay by a government agency in issuing any of our permits and approvals or imposition of restrictive conditions on us with respect to these permits and approvals may impair our business and operations. we hold numerous governmental environmental, mining and other permits and approvals authorizing operations at each of our facilities. a decision by a government agency to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations at the affected facility. expansion of our operations also is predicated upon securing the necessary environmental or other permits or approvals. over the next several years, we and our subsidiaries will be continuing our efforts to obtain permits in support of our anticipated florida mining operations at certain of our properties. a denial of, or delay in issuing, these permits, the issuance of permits with cost-prohibitive conditions, legal actions that prevent us from relying on permits or revocation of permits, could prevent us from mining at these properties and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for example: in florida, local community participation has become an important factor in the permitting process for mining companies, and various local counties and other parties in florida have in the past and continue to file lawsuits challenging the issuance of some of the permits we require. in fiscal 2009, in connection with our efforts to permit an extension of our four corners, florida, phosphate rock mine, non-governmental organizations for the first time filed a lawsuit in federal court against the u.s. army corps of engineers with respect to its actions in issuing a federal wetlands permit. the federal wetlands permit issued by the corps remains in effect and mining of the extension of our four corners mine has commenced and is continuing, although this lawsuit remains pending before the united states district court for the middle district of florida, jacksonville division. 34 table of contents delays in receiving a federal wetlands permit impacted the scheduled progression of mining activities for the extension of our south fort meade, florida, phosphate rock mine into hardee county. as a result, we began to idle a portion of our mining equipment at the mine in the latter part of fiscal 2010. on june 14, 2010, the corps issued the federal wetlands permit. we subsequently initiated site preparation activities to begin mining the extension property in reliance on the federal wetlands permit. on june 30, 2010, certain non-governmental organizations filed another lawsuit in the united states district court for the middle district of florida, jacksonville division, contesting the issuance of the federal wetlands permit for the extension of our south fort meade mine into hardee county, alleging that the corps actions in issuing the permit violated several federal laws relating to the protection of the environment. on july 30, 2010, the court entered a preliminary injunction preventing mining activities in jurisdictional waters of the u.s. in reliance on the permit until the corps completed an additional analysis of available alternatives under the clean water act in accordance with the court order and a permit was reissued by the corps, or the case was decided on its merits in our favor. we then shut down the south fort meade mine because we could not extend the mine into hardee county in reliance on the federal wetlands permit. on october 27, 2010, we reached a partial settlement with the plaintiffs that allowed us to proceed with mining on approximately 200 acres out of the 10,586 acre extension of the mine into hardee county. following court approval of the partial settlement, we commenced mining within the 200-acre area. we completed mining in the 200-acre area in june 2011. the shutdown resulted in costs to suspend operations and idle plant costs. lower phosphate rock mining production levels also adversely affected gross margin. in april 2011, the eleventh circuit court of appeals vacated the first preliminary injunction effective july 7, 2011. on july 8, 2011, the jacksonville district court issued a second preliminary injunction again preventing us from mining in the hardee county extension of our south fort meade mine, and we have stopped mining in that area. the shutdown could result in higher costs in fiscal 2012, principally if we need to purchase incremental levels of phosphate rock in the second half of fiscal 2012, and such costs could be substantial. the degree to which we are able to successfully mitigate the effects of the second preliminary injunction in the longer-term remains uncertain. accordingly, an extended loss of production from the south fort meade mine could also potentially adversely impact production at our phosphate concentrates plants and our sales volumes, lead to further layoffs of employees or result in the indefinite closure of at least one of our phosphate concentrates plants. this could further significantly affect our future results of operations, reduce our future cash flows from operations, and, in the longer-term, conceivably adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources. in august 2010, we received official confirmation from the corps that it plans to conduct an area-wide environmental impact statement for the central florida phosphate district. the corps has established a planned 18-month time frame for completion of the document. we cannot predict the scope or actual timeline for this process, or what its outcome will be; however, although we do not currently expect its outcome to materially influence the conditions of future federal wetlands permits for our mining in central florida, a protracted timeline for this process could delay our future permitting efforts. we have included additional discussion about permitting for our phosphate mines in florida, including the lawsuit contesting the issuance of the federal wetlands permit for the extension of our south fort meade mine into hardee county and its potential effects on us, under environmental, health and safety matters permitting in our management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in note 22 of our consolidated financial statements. 35 table of contents we are subject to financial assurance requirements as part of our routine business operations. these financial assurance requirements affect our costs and increase our liquidity requirements. if we were unable to satisfy applicable financial assurance requirements, we might not be able to obtain or maintain permits we need to operate our business as we have in the past. our need to comply with these requirements could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. in many cases, as a condition to procuring or maintaining permits and approvals or otherwise, we are required to comply with financial assurance regulatory requirements. the purpose of these requirements is to provide comfort to the government that sufficient funds will be available for the ultimate closure, post-closure care and/or reclamation of our facilities. in most cases, these financial assurance requirements can be satisfied without the need for any expenditure of corporate funds to the extent our financial statements meet certain balance sheet and income statement financial strength tests. in the event that we are unable to satisfy these financial strength tests, we must utilize alternative methods of complying with the financial assurance requirements or could be subject to enforcement proceedings brought by relevant government agencies. potential alternative methods of compliance include negotiating a consent decree that imposes alternative financial assurance or other conditions or, alternatively, providing credit support in the form of cash escrows, surety bonds from insurance companies, letters of credit from banks, or other forms of financial instruments or collateral to satisfy the financial assurance requirements. use of these alternative means of financial assurance imposes additional expense on us. some of them, such as letters of credit, also use a portion of our available liquidity. other alternative means of financial assurance, such as surety bonds, may in some cases require collateral and generally require us to obtain a discharge of the bonds or to post additional collateral (typically in the form of cash or letters of credit) at the request of the issuer of the bonds. collateral that is required may be in many forms including letters of credit or other financial instruments that utilize a portion of our available liquidity, or in the form of assets such as real estate, which reduces our flexibility to manage or sell assets. we are technically out of compliance with the florida financial assurance requirements because we do not have a sufficient amount of debt outstanding. we are working with the florida department of environmental protection to determine an alternative means of meeting the test. in the past, we have also not always been able to satisfy applicable financial strength tests, and in the future, it is possible that we will not be able to pass the applicable financial strength tests, negotiate consent decrees, establish escrow accounts or obtain letters of credit, surety bonds or other financial instruments on acceptable terms and conditions or at a reasonable cost, or that the form and/or cost of compliance could increase, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. we have included additional discussion about financial assurance requirements under off balance sheet arrangements and obligations other commercial commitments in our management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the other environmental regulations to which we are subject may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition to permitting and financial assurance requirements, we are subject to numerous other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the u.s., canada, china, brazil and other countries where we operate. these laws and regulations govern a wide range of matters, including environmental controls, land reclamation, discharges to air and water and remediation of hazardous substance releases. they significantly affect our operating activities as well as the level of our operating costs and capital expenditures. in some international jurisdictions, environmental laws change frequently and it may be difficult for us to determine if we are in compliance with all material environmental laws at any given time. we are, and may in the future be, involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that could be material to us. these proceedings include legacy matters arising from activities of our predecessor companies and from facilities and businesses that we have never owned or operated. we have in the past been, are currently and may in the future be subject to legal and regulatory proceedings that could be material to our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. these proceedings may be brought by the government or private parties and may arise out of a variety of matters, including: allegations by the government or private parties that we have violated the permitting, financial assurance or other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations discussed above. for example, 36 table of contents the u.s. environmental protection agency is engaged in an ongoing review of mineral processing industries, including us and other phosphoric acid producers, under the u.s. resource conservation and recovery act. we are also involved in other proceedings alleging that, or to review whether, we have violated environmental laws in the united states and brazil. other environmental, health and safety matters, including alleged personal injury, wrongful death, property damage, subsidence from mining operations, natural resource damages and other damage to the environment, arising out of operations, including accidents. for example, several actions were initiated by the government and private parties related to releases of phosphoric acid process wastewater at our riverview, florida facility during the hurricanes in 2004. antitrust, commercial, tax and other disputes. for example, we are currently one of a number of defendants in multiple class-action lawsuits, in which the plaintiffs seek unspecified amounts of damages including treble damages, alleging that we and other defendants conspired to, among other matters, fix the price at which potash was sold in the united states, allocated market shares and customers and fraudulently concealed their anticompetitive conduct. the legal and regulatory proceedings to which we are currently or may in the future be subject can, depending on the circumstances, result in monetary damage awards, fines, penalties, other liabilities, injunctions or other court or administrative rulings that interrupt, impede or otherwise materially affect our business operations, and/or criminal sanctions. among other environmental laws, the u.s. comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act imposes liability, including for cleanup costs, without regard to fault or to the legality of a party conduct, on certain categories of persons, including current and former owners and operators of a site and parties who are considered to have contributed to the release of hazardous substances into the environment. under cercla, or various u.s. state analogs, one party may, under certain circumstances, be required to bear more than its proportional share of cleanup costs at a site where it has liability if payments cannot be obtained from other responsible parties. as a crop nutrient company working with chemicals and other hazardous substances, we will periodically incur liabilities and cleanup costs, under cercla and other environmental laws, with regard to our current or former facilities, adjacent or nearby third-party facilities or offsite disposal locations. pending and potential legal and regulatory proceedings may arise out of our present activities, including operations at current facilities. they may also arise out of past activities by us, our predecessor companies and subsidiaries that our predecessors have sold. these past activities were in some cases at facilities that we and our subsidiaries no longer own or operate and may have never owned or operated. we have included additional information with respect to pending legal and regulatory proceedings in note 22 of our consolidated financial statements and in this report in part i, item 3, legal proceedings . these legal and regulatory proceedings involve inherent uncertainties and could negatively impact our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. the permitting, financial assurance and other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations to which we are subject may become more stringent over time. this could increase the effects on us of these laws and regulations, and the increased effects could be material. continued government and public emphasis on environmental, health and safety issues in the u.s., canada, china, brazil and other countries where we operate can be expected to result in requirements that apply to us and our operations that are more stringent than those that are described above and elsewhere in this report. these more stringent requirements may include among other matters increased levels of future investments and expenditures for environmental controls at ongoing operations which will be charged against income from future 37 table of contents operations, increased levels of the financial assurance requirements to which we are subject, increased efforts or costs to obtain permits or denial of permits, other new or interpretations of existing statutes or regulations that impose new or more stringent restrictions or liabilities, including liabilities under cercla or similar statutes, including restrictions or liabilities related to elevated levels of naturally-occurring radiation that arise from disturbing the ground in the course of mining activities, and other matters that could increase our expenses, capital requirements or liabilities or adversely affect our business, liquidity or financial condition. in addition, to the extent restrictions imposed in countries where our competitors operate, such as china, india, former soviet union countries or morocco, are less stringent than in the countries where we operate, our competitors could gain cost or other competitive advantages over us. these effects could be material. among other matters, on december 6, 2010, the epa adopted numeric water quality standards for the discharge of nitrogen and/or phosphorus into florida lakes and streams. the rule sets criteria for such discharges that would require drastic reductions in the levels of nutrients allowed in florida lakes and streams, and would require us and others to significantly limit discharges of these nutrients in florida by march, 2012. we and others have brought lawsuits challenging the rule. we are also exploring regulatory relief mechanisms provided under the rule. if our lawsuit and our efforts to identify and obtain approval of effective regulatory relief mechanisms are unsuccessful, we expect that compliance with the requirements of the rule would adversely affect our florida phosphate operations, require significant capital expenditures and substantially increase our annual operating expenses. regulatory restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions in the united states, canada or elsewhere could adversely affect us, and these effects could be material. various governmental initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions are under way or under consideration around the world. these initiatives could restrict our operating activities, require us to make changes in our operating activities that would increase our operating costs, reduce our efficiency or limit our output, require us to make capital improvements to our facilities, increase our energy, raw material and transportation costs or limit their availability, or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, and these effects could be material to us. governmental greenhouse gas emission initiatives include among others: initiatives in the united states : epa regulations. in december 2009, the epa finalized its previously proposed endangerment finding under the clean air act that motor vehicles are sources of greenhouse gases that are reasonably anticipated to endanger public health and welfare. subsequently, on may 13, 2010, the epa issued its final prevention of significant deterioration ( psd ) and title v greenhouse gas tailoring rule (the tailoring rule ). under the tailoring rule, (i) beginning in january 2011, sources that are currently subject to the psd requirements that undergo modifications that increase their greenhouse gas emissions by 75,000 short tons per year will be subject to psd permitting requirements for greenhouse gas emissions and (ii) beginning in july 2011, new projects that are not otherwise subject to the psd requirements will become subject to psd requirements if they emit greenhouse gas emissions of more than 100,000 short tons per year. congressional legislation. in the past sessions of congress, the u.s. house of representatives passed legislation that would establish a comprehensive program to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. this legislation would have mandated increased use of renewable energy sources, increased energy efficiency, and an economy-wide emission cap and trade program. many other bills have been more recently introduced both in the u.s. house of representatives and the u.s. senate. 38 table of contents state initiatives. the florida department of environmental protection ( fdep ) is conducting rulemaking proceedings to develop a greenhouse gas cap and trade regulatory program applicable to electric utilities. some public documents and discussions that are part of the fdep rulemaking process have considered our phosphates business segment electricity cogeneration facilities to be includable in such a regulatory program. initiatives in canada kyoto protocol . in december 2002, the prime minister of canada ratified the kyoto protocol, committing canada to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions on average to six percent below 1990 levels through the first commitment period (2008-2012). developments in canada efforts to reduce greenhouse gases include: in march 2008, canada announced a new climate change plan for canada which established a target of reducing greenhouse gases 20% from 2006 levels by 2020. in may 2009, the minister of environment indicated implementation may be delayed to assure sufficient alignment with the evolving approach in the u.s. to avoid trade sanctions. in may 2009, the province of saskatchewan, in which our canadian potash mines are located, began to consider legislation intended to lead to the development and administration of climate change regulation in saskatchewan by the province rather than the federal government. key elements under consideration by the province include a primary focus on achieving the 20% reduction by 2020 through technological advancements; creation of a technology fund to allow large final emitters of greenhouse gases to obtain required greenhouse gas emission credits by paying into the fund and using this fund for approved research and development projects targeted primarily at applied technological improvements; and creation of a green foundation fund intended to be used more broadly for grass roots research and development. international initiatives. although international negotiations concerning greenhouse gas emission reductions and other responses to climate change are underway, final obligations in the post-kyoto protocol period after 2012 remain undefined. any new international agreements addressing climate change could adversely affect our operating activities, energy, raw material and transportation costs, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, and these effects could be material. in addition, to the extent climate change restrictions imposed in countries where our competitors operate, such as china, india, former soviet union countries or morocco, are less stringent than in the united states or canada, our competitors could gain cost or other competitive advantages over us. future climate change could adversely affect us. the prospective impact of potential climate change on our operations and those of our customers and farmers remains uncertain. some scientists have hypothesized that the impacts of climate change could include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperature levels and that these changes could be severe. these impacts could vary by geographic location. at the present time, we cannot predict the prospective impact of potential climate change on our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, or whether any such effects could be material to us. some of our competitors and potential competitors have greater resources than we do which may place us at a competitive disadvantage and adversely affect our sales and profitability. these competitors include state-owned and government-subsidized entities in other countries. we compete with a number of producers in north america and throughout the world, including state-owned and government-subsidized entities. some of these entities may have greater total resources than we do, and may be less dependent on earnings from crop nutrients sales than we are. in addition, some of these entities may have access to lower cost or government-subsidized natural gas supplies, placing us at a competitive disadvantage. 39 table of contents furthermore, governments as owners of some of our competitors may be willing to accept lower prices and profitability on their products in order to support domestic employment or other political or social goals. to the extent other producers of crop nutrients enjoy competitive advantages or are willing to accept lower profit levels, the price of our products, our sales volumes and our profits may be adversely affected. we have substantial cash balances that we invest in what we believe to be relatively short-term, highly liquid and high credit quality investments. we intend the investment risks, including counterparty default and lack of liquidity, on these types of investments to be relatively low, but market rates of return on these types of investments are also generally relatively low. in addition, our efforts to manage the investment risks could be unsuccessful. this could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. our significant cash flows from operations have resulted in cash and cash-equivalents of approximately $3.9 billion as of may 31, 2011. our cash and cash-equivalents should continue to increase when we generate cash from operations, except to the extent we reinvest in our business or make distributions to our stockholders. we generally invest these cash and cash-equivalents in what we believe to be relatively short-term, highly liquid and high credit quality instruments. because of these characteristics of our cash and cash-equivalents, the market rates of return on them are lower than our expectations for the return on capital invested in our business operations. moreover, our efforts to manage investment risk by focusing our investing on short-term, highly liquid and high credit quality investments could prove unsuccessful. the likelihood that our efforts to manage investment risk might prove unsuccessful is heightened during times when there is significant turmoil in the financial markets. as a result, counterparties could default on their obligations to us, or the liquidity of financial instruments that we hold could become impaired. any such event could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we do not own a controlling equity interest in our non-consolidated companies, some of which are foreign companies, and therefore our operating results and cash flow may be materially affected by how the governing boards and majority owners operate such businesses. there may also be limitations on monetary distributions from these companies that are outside of our control. together, these factors may lower our equity earnings or cash flow from such businesses and negatively impact our results of operations. we hold minority ownership interests in a joint venture that owns and operates a phosphate rock mine and in other companies that are not controlled by us. the operations or results of some of these companies are significant to us, and their operations can affect our earnings. because we do not control these companies either at the board or stockholder levels and because local laws in foreign jurisdictions and contractual obligations may place restrictions on monetary distributions by these companies, we cannot ensure that these companies will operate efficiently, pay dividends, or generally follow the desires of our management by virtue of our board or stockholder representation. as a result, these companies may contribute less than anticipated to our earnings and cash flow, negatively impacting our results of operations and liquidity. strikes or other forms of work stoppage or slowdown could disrupt our business and lead to increased costs. our financial performance is dependent on a reliable and productive work force. a significant portion of our workforce is covered by collective bargaining agreements with unions. unsuccessful contract negotiations or adverse labor relations could result in strikes or slowdowns. any disruptions may decrease our production and sales or impose additional costs to resolve disputes. the risk of adverse labor relations may increase as our profitability increases because labor unions expectations and demands generally rise at those times. accidents occurring in the course of our operating activities could result in significant liabilities, interruptions or shutdowns of facilities or the need for significant safety or other expenditures. we engage in mining and industrial activities that can result in serious accidents. mining, in particular, can be a dangerous activity. if our safety procedures are not effective, we could be subject to liabilities arising out of 40 table of contents personal injuries or death, our operations could be interrupted and we might have to shut down or abandon affected facilities. accidents could cause us to expend significant amounts to remediate safety issues or to repair damaged facilities. for example: our esterhazy mine has had an inflow of brine for more than 25 years. at various times, we have experienced new or increased inflows at the mine. the esterhazy mine is not insured against the risk of floods and water inflows and the costs to control the brine inflows could increase in future years. the brine inflows, risk to employees or remediation costs could also cause us to change our mining process or abandon this mine, which in turn could significantly negatively impact our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources. since december 1985, we have had inflows of salt saturated brine into our esterhazy, saskatchewan mine. over the past century, several potash mines experiencing water inflow problems have flooded. in order to control brine inflows at esterhazy, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, expenditures, certain of which due to their nature have been capitalized, while others have been charged to expense. at various times, we experience new or increased brine inflows at the esterhazy mine. for example, in late 2006, we identified a new salt saturated brine inflow in a mined out area located approximately 7,500 feet from our existing brine inflow management area. initial data suggested that the new inflow was at the rate of 20,000 to 25,000 gallons per minute, which was significantly greater than the highest inflow rates that we had successfully managed (approximately 10,000 to 15,000 gallons per minute) at the esterhazy mine since 1985. without abatement, and assuming our initial estimates to be accurate, we estimated that we had storage capacity to handle the new brine inflow for several months before adversely affecting production at the esterhazy mine. our remediation efforts included grouting that reduced the level of the inflows to approximately historical rates and pumping to reduce the level of brine in the mine. see potash net sales and gross margin in our management analysis for a discussion of costs and other information relating to the brine inflows. inflow rate measurements reflect an estimate as of a particular point in time, and depending on when tests are conducted, rates can fluctuate up or down. we have subsequently experienced other new or increased brine inflows but within the range of historical norms. there can be no assurance that: the pumping, grouting and other measures that we use to mitigate the inflows at the esterhazy mine will continue to be successful in mitigating the inflows; our estimates of the volumes of the brine inflow or storage capacity for brine at the esterhazy mine are accurate; the volumes of the brine inflows will not fluctuate from time to time, the rate of the brine inflows will not be greater than our current assumptions and that any such fluctuations or increases would not be material; or the expenditures to control the inflows will be consistent with our current estimates. it is possible that the costs of remedial efforts at esterhazy may further increase beyond our current estimates in the future and that such an increase could be material, or, in the extreme scenario, that the water inflows, risk to employees or remediation costs may increase to a level which would cause us to change our mining process or abandon the mine. due to the ongoing brine inflow problem at esterhazy, underground operations at this facility are currently not insurable for water incursion problems. our mines at colonsay, saskatchewan, and carlsbad, new mexico, are also subject to the risks of inflow of water as a result of our shaft mining operations. 41 table of contents some of our mines are subject to potential damage from earthquakes. the excavation of mines can result in potential seismic events or can increase the likelihood or potential severity of a seismic event. the rise and fall of water levels, such as those arising from the brine inflows and our remediation activities at our esterhazy mine, can also result in or increase the likelihood or potential severity of a seismic event. our esterhazy mine has experienced minor seismic events from time to time. a significant seismic event at one of our mines could result in damage to or flooding of the mine or, in the extreme scenario, cause us to change our mining process or abandon the mine. our underground potash shaft mines are subject to risk from fire. in the event of a fire, if our emergency procedures are not successful, we could have significant injuries or deaths. in addition, fire at one of our underground shaft mines could halt our operations at the affected mine while we investigate the origin of the fire or for longer periods for remedial work or otherwise. our underground potash shaft mines at esterhazy, saskatchewan, colonsay, saskatchewan and carlsbad, new mexico are subject to risk from fire, for example, in january 2006, we experienced a fire at our esterhazy mine. at the time of the fire, there were 72 mine workers underground. these mine workers were safely evacuated the following day. we halted operations at our esterhazy mine for over a week during our investigation of the origin of the fire. any failure of our safety procedures in the future could result in serious injuries or death, or lengthier shutdowns, which could result in significant liabilities and/or impact on the financial performance of our potash business, including a possible material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we handle significant quantities of ammonia at several of our facilities. if our safety procedures are not effective, an accident involving our ammonia operations could result in serious injuries or death, or result in the shutdown of our facilities. we produce ammonia at our faustina, louisiana phosphate concentrates plant, use ammonia in significant quantities at all of our florida and louisiana phosphates concentrates plants and store ammonia at some of our distribution facilities. for our florida phosphates concentrates plants, ammonia is received at terminals in tampa and transported by pipelines to our facilities. our ammonia is generally stored and transported at high pressures. an accident could occur that could result in serious injuries or death, or the evacuation of areas near an accident. an accident could also result in property damage or the shutdown of our florida or louisiana phosphates concentrates plants, the ammonia terminals or pipelines serving those plants or our other ammonia storage and handling facilities. as a result, an accident involving ammonia could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we also use or produce other hazardous or volatile chemicals at some of our facilities. if our safety procedures are not effective, an accident involving these other hazardous or volatile chemicals could result in serious injuries or death, or result in the shutdown of our facilities. we use sulfuric acid in the production of concentrated phosphates in our florida and louisiana operations. some of our florida and louisiana facilities produce fluorosilicic acid, which is a hazardous chemical, for resale to third parties. we also use or produce other hazardous or volatile chemicals at some of our facilities. an accident involving any of these chemicals could result in serious injuries or death, or evacuation of areas near an accident. an accident could also result in property damage or shutdown of our facilities, or cause us to expend significant amounts to remediate safety issues or to repair damaged facilities. as a result, an accident involving any of these chemicals could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. for example, in october 2006, an explosion occurred at our faustina, louisiana ammonia plant, which is located adjacent to our phosphate production facility. as a result, the ammonia plant was idle for repairs until mid-january 2007. 42 table of contents deliberate, malicious acts, including terrorism, could damage our facilities, disrupt our operations or injure employees, contractors, customers or the public and result in liability to us. intentional acts of destruction could hinder our sales or production and disrupt our supply chain. our facilities could be damaged or destroyed, reducing our operational production capacity and requiring us to repair or replace our facilities at substantial cost. employees, contractors and the public could suffer substantial physical injury for which we could be liable. governmental authorities may impose security or other requirements that could make our operations more difficult or costly. the consequences of any such actions could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by changing antitrust laws to which we are subject. increases in crop nutrient prices can increase the scrutiny to which we are subject under these laws. we are subject to antitrust and competition laws in various countries throughout the world. we cannot predict how these laws or their interpretation, administration and enforcement will change over time. changes in antitrust laws globally, or in their interpretation, administration or enforcement, may limit our existing or future operations and growth, or the operations of canpotex limited and the phosphate chemicals export association, inc., which serve as export associations for our potash and phosphates businesses, respectively. increases in crop nutrient prices have in the past resulted in increased scrutiny of the crop nutrient industry under antitrust and competition laws and can increase the risk that these laws could be interpreted, administered or enforced in a manner that could affect our operating practices or impose liability on us in a manner that could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by other changes in laws resulting from increases in food and crop nutrient prices. increases in prices for, among other things, food, fuel and crop inputs (including crop nutrients) have in the past been the subject of significant discussion by various governmental bodies and officials throughout the world. in response to increases, it is possible that governments in one of more of the locations in which we operate or where we or our competitors sell our products could take actions that could affect us. such actions could include, among other matters, changes in governmental policies relating to agriculture and biofuels (including changes in subsidy levels), price controls, tariffs, windfall profits taxes or export or import taxes. any such actions could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our competitive position could be adversely affected if we are unable to participate in continuing industry consolidation. most of our products are readily available from a number of competitors, and price and other competition in the crop nutrient industry is intense. in addition, crop nutrient production facilities and distribution activities frequently benefit from economies of scale. as a result, particularly during pronounced cyclical troughs, the crop nutrient industry has a long history of consolidation. mosaic itself is the result of a number of industry consolidations. we expect consolidation among crop nutrient producers could continue. our competitive position could suffer to the extent we are not able to expand our own resources either through consolidations, acquisitions, joint ventures or partnerships. in the future, we may not be able to find suitable companies to combine with, assets to purchase or joint venture or partnership opportunities to pursue. even if we are able to locate desirable opportunities, we may not be able to enter into transactions on economically acceptable terms. if we do not successfully participate in continuing industry consolidation, our ability to compete successfully could be adversely affected and result in the loss of customers or an uncompetitive cost structure, which could adversely affect our sales and profitability. our risk management strategy may not be effective. our businesses are affected by fluctuations in market prices for our products, the purchase price of natural gas, ammonia and sulfur consumed in operations, freight and shipping costs and foreign currency exchange rates. we 43 table of contents periodically enter into derivatives and forward purchase contracts to mitigate some of these risks. however, our strategy may not be successful in minimizing our exposure to these fluctuations. see market risk in our management analysis and note 16 of our consolidated financial statements that is incorporated by reference in this report in part ii, item 8. a shortage of railcars, barges and ships for carrying our products and the raw materials we use in our business could result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of production or sales, and higher transportation or equipment costs. we rely heavily upon truck, rail, barge and ocean freight transportation to obtain the raw materials we need and to deliver our products to our customers. in addition, the cost of transportation is an important part of the final sale price of our products. finding affordable and dependable transportation is important in obtaining our raw materials and to supply our customers. higher costs for these transportation services or an interruption or slowdown due to factors including high demand, high fuel prices, labor disputes, layoffs or other factors affecting the availability of qualified transportation workers, adverse weather or other environmental events, or changes to rail, barge or ocean freight systems, could negatively affect our ability to produce our products or deliver them to our customers, which could affect our performance and results of operations. strong demand for grain and other products and a strong world economy increase the demand for and reduce the availability of transportation, both domestically and internationally. shortages of railcars, barges and ocean transport for carrying product and increased transit time may result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of sales and higher equipment and transportation costs. in addition, during periods when the shipping industry has a shortage of ships the substantial time needed to build new ships prevents rapid market response. delays and missed shipments due to transportation shortages, including vessels, barges, railcars and trucks, could result in customer dissatisfaction or loss of sales potential, which could negatively affect our performance and results of operations. a lack of customers access to credit can adversely affect their ability to purchase our products. some of our customers require access to credit to purchase our products. a lack of available credit to customers in one or more countries, due to the global or local economic conditions or for other reasons, could adversely affect demand for crop nutrients. for example, the recent global economic crisis reduced the availability of credit to borrowers worldwide. a lack of available credit was one of several significant factors that adversely affected international customers demand for crop nutrients in some countries in our fiscal year ended may 31, 2009. we extend trade credit to our customers and guarantee the financing that some of our customers use to purchase our products. our results of operations may be adversely affected if these customers are unable to repay the trade credit from us or financing from their banks. increases in prices for crop nutrient, other agricultural inputs and grain may increase this risk. we extend trade credit to our customers in the united states and throughout the world, in some cases for extended periods of time. in brazil, where there are fewer third-party financing sources available to farmers, we also have several programs under which we guarantee customers financing from financial institutions that they use to purchase our products. as our exposure to longer trade credit extended throughout the world and use of guarantees in brazil increases, we are increasingly exposed to the risk that some of our customers will not pay us or the amounts we have guaranteed. additionally, we become increasingly exposed to risk due to weather and crop growing conditions, fluctuations in commodity prices or foreign currencies, and other factors that influence the price, supply and demand for agricultural commodities. significant defaults by our customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. increases in prices for crop nutrients increase the dollar amount of our sales to customers. the larger dollar value of our customers purchases may also lead them to request longer trade credit from us and/or increase their need 44 table of contents for us to guarantee their financing of our products. either factor could increase the amount of our exposure to the risk that our customers may be unable to repay the trade credit from us or financing from their banks that we guarantee. in addition, increases in prices for other agricultural inputs and grain may increase the working capital requirements, indebtedness and other liabilities of our customers, increase the risk that they will default on the trade credit from us or their financing that we guarantee, and decrease the likelihood that we will be able to collect from our customers in the event of their default. tax rules governing the split-off could result in limitations on our ability to execute certain actions for a period of time following the split-off and, notwithstanding the irs ruling and tax opinion issued to cargill in connection with the cargill transaction, we could owe significant tax-related indemnification liabilities to cargill. the irs has issued a ruling to the effect that the split-off that is part of the cargill transaction will be tax-free to cargill and its stockholders, and in connection with the completion of the cargill transaction, cargill received a tax opinion relating to certain tax consequences of the cargill transaction. notwithstanding the irs ruling and tax opinion, however, the split-off and debt exchanges could be taxable to cargill and its stockholders under certain circumstances. for example, the split-off and debt exchanges would be taxable to cargill (but not its stockholders) under section 355(e) of the code ( section 355(e) ) if one or more persons acquire, directly or indirectly, stock representing a 50% or greater interest (by vote or value) in us as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the split-off. therefore, we and cargill have agreed to tax-related restrictions and indemnities set forth in a tax agreement related to the cargill transaction, under which we may be restricted or deterred from taking certain actions for a period of two years following the completion of the split-off, including (i) redeeming or purchasing our stock in excess of agreed-upon amounts; (ii) issuing any equity securities in excess of agreed upon amounts; (iii) approving or recommending a third party acquisition of us; (iv) permitting any merger or other combination of mosaic or mos holdings; and (v) entering into an agreement for the purchase of any interest in mosaic or mos holdings, subject to certain exceptions. we have agreed to indemnify cargill for taxes and tax-related losses imposed on cargill as a result of the split-off and/or debt exchange failing to qualify as tax-free, if the taxes and related losses are attributable to, arise out of or result from certain prohibited acts or to any breach of, or inaccuracy in, any representation, warranty or covenant made by us in the tax agreement referred to above. the taxes and tax-related losses of cargill would be material if these transactions fail to qualify as tax-free, and so this indemnity would result in material liabilities from us to cargill that could have a material adverse effect on us. for a further discussion of the restrictions and indemnities set forth in the agreements related to the cargill transaction, please see note 2 to our consolidated financial statements. the class b common stock issued to cargill stockholders in the merger is entitled to ten votes per share with respect to the election of directors while the class a common stock issued to cargill stockholders in the merger and the common stock has only one vote per share with respect to the election of directors. for the split-off and debt exchange to be tax-free to cargill and its stockholders, u.s. federal income tax law generally required, among other things, that cargill exchange with its stockholders stock representing at least 80% of the voting power in the election of our board of directors. accordingly, a high vote class b common stock was established in connection with the merger to permit cargill to effect the split-off and debt exchange in a manner that is tax-free to cargill and its stockholders. following the merger, holders of our class b common stock hold approximately 77% of the voting power for the election of directors and approximately 25% of the economic interest in us and voting power on other matters, holders of our class a common stock hold approximately 4% of the voting power for the election of directors and approximately 13% of the economic interest in us and voting power on other matters, and holders of our common stock hold approximately 19% of the voting power for the election of directors and approximately 62% of the economic interest in us and voting power on other matters. 45 table of contents limitations on equity issuances, buybacks and other actions. the agreements relating to the cargill transaction restrict our ability to take certain actions, including making certain equity issuances or undertaking share buybacks. these restrictions and limitations apply for a period of two years following completion of the split-off. these restrictions and limitations may prevent us from pursuing business opportunities that may arise prior to expiration of such restrictions and limitations. please see note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for a summary of these restrictions and limitations. in addition, we are restricted from buying shares of class a common stock or class b common stock at a premium to the then-current market price of the common stock. stock sales following the split-off may affect the stock price of our common stock. during the first fifteen months following the completion of the merger and the split-off, we agreed to conduct a series of additional underwritten secondary public formation offerings which could result in downward pressure on the market price of our common stock. in addition, prior to the 24-month anniversary of the split-off, we may be required by the mac trusts to file a shelf registration statement for secondary sales of shares in the event the mac trusts are not given the opportunity to sell 42.0 million shares of stock received by the mac trusts in the split-off in the additional formation offerings discussed above. furthermore, the agreements relating to the cargill transaction provide for the possibility of another series of underwritten secondary public offerings, which would begin no earlier than 12 months following the last of the formation offerings described above (or certain other primary or secondary offerings), with respect to our shares received by exchanging cargill stockholders (including shares received but not sold by the mac trusts in the initial two-year period following the split-off). this second series of underwritten secondary public offerings is expected to be completed, at the latest, on the 54-month anniversary of the split-off. these sales could also result in downward pressure on the stock price of our common stock. the class b common stock may remain as a separate class for an indefinite period of time. we presently expect that, in connection with the consideration of resolutions to be submitted to our stockholders at our next regularly scheduled annual stockholders meeting or at a special stockholders meeting, our board of directors will consider a proposal to convert the class b common stock to either class a common stock or common stock (or a combination thereof) on a share-for-share basis, subject to the receipt of stockholder approval. there is, however, no binding commitment by our board of directors to, and there can be no assurance that our board of directors will, consider the issue or resolve to submit such a proposal to our stockholders at that meeting or any subsequent meeting of stockholders. moreover, there can be no assurance that, if presented, our stockholders would approve the conversion proposal. if such a conversion proposal is approved by our board of directors and presented to our stockholders, a vote by a majority of all three classes of our stock outstanding, represented in person or by proxy at a stockholder meeting, voting together as a single class (with each share having one vote) will be required for such proposal to be approved. provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. our restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. these provisions include the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, the classification of our board of directors into three classes, a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent and the inability of our stockholders to request that our board of directors or chairman of our board call a special meeting of stockholders. we are also subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. in general, section 203 prohibits a publicly held delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder 46 table of contents for a period of three years from the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the interested stockholder attained this status with the approval of the board of directors or unless the business combination was approved in a prescribed manner. a business combination includes mergers, asset sales and other transactions resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder. subject to exceptions, an interested stockholder is a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns, or within three years owned, 15% or more of the corporation voting stock. this statute could prohibit or delay the accomplishment of mergers or other takeover or change in control attempts with respect to us and, accordingly, may discourage attempts to acquire us. these provisions apply not only when they may protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics but even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in our best interests or those of our stockholders. our success will increasingly depend on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified and motivated employees. we believe our continued success depends on the collective abilities and efforts of our employees. like many businesses, a significant number of our employees, including some of our most highly skilled employees with specialized expertise in potash and phosphates operations, will be approaching retirement age throughout the next decade and beyond. in addition, we compete for a talented workforce with other businesses, particularly within the mining and chemicals industries in general and the crop nutrients industry in particular. our expansion plans are highly dependent on our ability to attract, retain and train highly qualified and motivated employees who are essential to the success of our ongoing operations as well as to our expansion plans. if we were to be unsuccessful in attracting, retaining and training the employees we require, our ongoing operations and expansion plans could be materially and adversely affected. future technological innovation could affect our business. future technological innovation such as the development of seeds that require less crop nutrients, or developments in the application of crop nutrients, if they occur, could have the potential to adversely affect the demand for our products and our results of operations, liquidity and capital resources. the success of our potash expansion plans and other strategic initiatives depends on our ability to effectively manage these initiatives. we have initiated several significant strategic initiatives, principally our plans to expand the annual production capacity of our potash business by more than five million tonnes of finished product by 2020. these strategic initiatives involve capital and other expenditures of several billions of dollars over a number of years and require effective project management. to the extent the processes we put in place to manage these initiatives are not effective, our capital expenditure and other costs may exceed our expectations or the benefits we expect from these initiatives might not be fully realized. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we have included a discussion about market risks under market risk in our management analysis. this information is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 27 risk factors our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the risks and uncertainties described below. our operating results are highly dependent upon and fluctuate based upon business and economic conditions and governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry where we or our customers operate. these factors are outside of our control and may significantly affect our profitability. our operating results are highly dependent upon business and economic conditions and governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, which we cannot control. the agricultural products business can be affected by a number of factors. the most important of these factors, for u.s. markets, are: weather patterns and field conditions (particularly during periods of traditionally high crop nutrients consumption); quantities of crop nutrients imported to and exported from north america; current and projected grain inventories and prices, which are heavily influenced by u.s. exports and world-wide grain markets; and u.s. governmental policies, including farm and biofuel policies, which may directly or indirectly influence the number of acres planted, the level of grain inventories, the mix of crops planted or crop prices. international market conditions, which are also outside of our control, may also significantly influence our operating results. the international market for crop nutrients is influenced by such factors as the relative value of the u.s. dollar and its impact upon the cost of importing crop nutrients, foreign agricultural policies, the existence of, or changes in, import or foreign currency exchange barriers in certain foreign markets, changes in the hard currency demands of certain countries and other regulatory policies of foreign governments, as well as the laws and policies of the united states affecting foreign trade and investment. our most important products are global commodities, and we face intense global competition from other crop nutrient producers that can affect our prices and volumes. our most important products are concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, including diammonium phosphate, or dap, and monoammonium phosphate, or map, and muriate of potash, or mop. we sell most of our dap, map and mop in the form of global commodities. our sales of these products face intense global competition from other crop nutrient producers. 27 table of contents changes in competitors production or shifts in their marketing focus have in the past significantly affected both the prices at which we sell our products and the volumes that we sell, and are likely to continue to do so in the future. competitors are more likely to increase their production at times when world agricultural and crop nutrient markets are strong, and to focus on sales into regions where their returns are highest. increases in the global supply of dap, map and mop or competitors increased sales into regions in which we have significant sales could adversely affect our prices and volumes. competitors and potential new entrants in the markets for both concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and potash have recently expanded, begun to expand, or announced plans to expand capacity over the next several years. the extent to which current global or local economic and financial conditions, changes in global or local economic and financial conditions, or other factors may cause delays or cancellation of some of these ongoing or planned projects, or result in the acceleration of existing or new projects, is unclear. in addition, the level of exports by producers of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients in china depends to a significant extent on chinese government actions to curb exports through, among other measures, prohibitive export taxes at times when the government believes it desirable to assure ample domestic supplies of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients to stimulate grain and oilseed production. in addition, some of our competitors who are expanding their potash production capacity include other members of canpotex. canpotex members respective shares of canpotex sales is based upon the members respective proven peaking capacity for producing potash. when a canpotex member expands its production capacity, the new capacity is added to that member proven peaking capacity based on a test run at the maximum production level. antitrust and competition laws prohibit the members of canpotex from coordinating their production decisions, including the timing of their respective test runs. worldwide potash production levels during these test runs could exceed then-current market demand, resulting in an oversupply of potash and lower potash prices. we cannot accurately predict when or whether competitors ongoing or planned capacity expansions will be completed, the timing of competitors tests to prove peaking capacity for canpotex purposes, the cumulative effect of these and recently completed expansions, the impact of future decisions by the chinese government on the level of chinese exports of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, or the effects of these or other actions by our competitors on the prices for our products or the volumes that we are able to sell. our crop nutrients and other products are subject to price and demand volatility resulting from periodic imbalances of supply and demand, which may cause our results of operations to fluctuate. historically, the market for crop nutrients has been cyclical, and prices and demand for our products have fluctuated to a significant extent, particularly for phosphates and, to a lesser extent, potash. periods of high demand, increasing profits and high capacity utilization tend to lead to new plant investment and increased production. this growth increases supply until the market is over-saturated, leading to declining prices and declining capacity utilization until the cycle repeats. as a result, crop nutrient prices and volumes have been volatile. this price and volume volatility may cause our results of operations to fluctuate and potentially deteriorate. the price at which we sell our crop nutrient products and our sales volumes could fall in the event of industry oversupply conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in contrast, high prices may lead our customers and farmers to delay purchasing decisions in anticipation of future lower prices, thus impacting our sales volumes. due to reduced market demand, depressed agricultural economic conditions and other factors, we and our predecessors have at various times suspended or reduced production at some of our facilities. the extent to which we utilize available capacity at our facilities will cause fluctuations in our results of operations, as we will incur 28 table of contents costs for any temporary or indefinite shutdowns of our facilities and lower sales tend to lead to higher fixed costs as a percentage of sales. variations in crop nutrient application rates may exacerbate the cyclicality of the crop nutrient markets. farmers are able to maximize their economic return by applying optimum amounts of crop nutrients. farmers decisions about the application rate for each crop nutrient, or to forego application of a crop nutrient, particularly phosphate and potash, vary from year to year depending on a number of factors, including among others, crop prices, crop nutrient and other crop input costs or the level of the crop nutrient remaining in the soil following the previous harvest. farmers are more likely to increase application rates when crop prices are relatively high, crop nutrient and other crop input costs are relatively low and the level of the crop nutrient remaining in the soil is relatively low. conversely, farmers are likely to reduce or forego application when farm economics are weak or declining or the level of the crop nutrients remaining in the soil is relatively high. this variability in application rates can materially accentuate the cyclicality in prices for our products and our sales volumes. our crop nutrient business is seasonal, which may result in carrying significant amounts of inventory and seasonal variations in working capital, and our inability to predict future seasonal crop nutrient demand accurately may result in excess inventory or product shortages. the crop nutrient business is seasonal. farmers tend to apply crop nutrients during two short application periods, the strongest one in the spring before planting and the other in the fall after harvest. as a result, the strongest demand for our products typically occurs during the spring planting season, with a second period of strong demand following the fall harvest. in contrast, we and other crop nutrient producers generally produce our products throughout the year. as a result, we and/or our customers generally build inventories during the low demand periods of the year in order to ensure timely product availability during the peak sales seasons. the seasonality of crop nutrient demand results in our sales volumes and net sales typically being the highest during the north american spring season and our working capital requirements typically being the highest just prior to the start of the spring season. our quarterly financial results can vary significantly from one year to the next due to weather-related shifts in planting schedules and purchasing patterns. if seasonal demand exceeds our projections, we will not have enough product and our customers may acquire products from our competitors, which would negatively impact our profitability. if seasonal demand is less than we expect, we will be left with excess inventory and higher working capital and liquidity requirements. the degree of seasonality of our business can change significantly from year to year due to conditions in the agricultural industry and other factors. the distribution channels for crop nutrients have capacity to build significant levels of inventories. significant levels of inventories in the distribution channels for crop nutrients can adversely affect our sales volumes and selling prices. in order to balance the production needs of crop nutrient producers with farmers seasonal use of crop nutrients, crop nutrient distribution channels need to have the capacity to build significant inventories. the build-up of inventories in the distribution channels can become excessive, particularly during the cyclical periods of low demand that have been typical in the crop nutrient industry. when there are excessive inventories in the distribution channel, our sales volumes and selling prices can be adversely impacted, even during periods in which farmers use of crop nutrients may remain strong. changes in transportation costs can affect our sales volumes and selling prices. the cost of delivery is a significant factor in the total cost to customers and farmers of crop nutrients. as a result, changes in transportation costs or in customer expectations about them can affect our sales volumes and prices. 29 table of contents customer expectations about future events can have a significant effect on the demand for our products. these expectations can significantly affect our sales volumes and selling prices. customer expectations about future events has had and is expected to continue to have an effect on the demand and prices for crop nutrients. future events that may be affected by customer expectations include, among others: customer expectations about future crop nutrient prices and availability. customer expectations about selling prices and availability of crop nutrients has had and is expected to continue to have an effect on the demand for crop nutrients. when customers anticipate increasing crop nutrient selling prices, customers tend to accumulate inventories before the anticipated price increases. this can result in a lag in our realization of rising market prices for our products. conversely, customers tend to delay their purchases when they anticipate future selling prices for crop nutrients will stabilize or decrease, adversely affecting our sales volumes and selling prices. customer expectations about availability of crop nutrients can have similar effects on sales volumes and prices. customer expectations about future farmer economics. similarly, customer expectations about future farmer economics has had and is expected to continue to have an effect on the demand for crop nutrients. when customers anticipate improving farmer economics, customers tend to accumulate crop nutrient inventories in anticipation of increasing sales volumes and selling prices. this can result in a lag in our realization of rising market prices for our products. conversely, when customers anticipate declining farmer economics, customers tend to reduce the level of their purchases of crop nutrients, adversely affecting our sales volumes and selling prices. changes in customer expectations about transportation costs. as discussed above, increasing transportation costs effectively increase customers and farmers costs for crop nutrients and can reduce the amount we realize for our sales. expectations of decreasing transportation costs can result in customers and farmers anticipating that they may be able to decrease their costs by delaying purchases. as a result, changes in customer expectations about transportation costs can affect our sales volumes and prices. we conduct our operations primarily through a limited number of key production and distribution facilities. any disruption at one of these facilities could have a material adverse impact on our business. the risk of material disruption increases when demand for our products results in high operating rates at our facilities. we conduct our operations through a limited number of key production and distribution facilities. these facilities include our phosphate mines and concentrates plants, our potash mines and the ports and other distribution facilities through which we conduct our business. any disruption of operations at one of these facilities has the possibility of significantly affecting our production or our ability to distribute our products. operating these facilities at high rates during periods of high demand for our products increases the risk of mechanical or structural failures, decreases the time available for routine maintenance and increases the impact on our operating results from any disruption. a disruption of operations at one of our key facilities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. insurance market conditions, our loss experience and other factors affect the insurance coverage that we carry, and we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. as a result, our insurance coverage may not adequately cover our losses. we maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance policies, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. we are subject to various self-retentions and deductibles 30 table of contents under these insurance policies. as a result of market conditions, our loss experience and other factors, our premiums, self-retentions and deductibles for insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. in addition, significantly increased costs could lead us to decide to reduce, or possibly eliminate, coverage. as a result, a disruption of operations at one of our key facilities or a significant casualty could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition. important raw materials and energy used in our businesses in the past have been and may in the future be the subject of volatile pricing. changes in the price of our raw materials could have a material impact on our businesses. natural gas, ammonia and sulfur are key raw materials used in the manufacture of phosphate crop nutrient products. natural gas is used as both a chemical feedstock and a fuel to produce anhydrous ammonia, which is a raw material used in the production of dap and map. natural gas is also a significant energy source used in the potash solution mining process. from time to time, our profitability has been and may in the future be impacted by the price and availability of these raw materials and other energy costs. because most of our products are commodities, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass through increased costs to our customers. a significant increase in the price of natural gas, ammonia, sulfur or energy costs that is not recovered through an increase in the price of our related crop nutrients products could have a material impact on our business. during periods when the price for concentrated phosphates is falling because of falling raw material prices, we may experience a lag in realizing the benefits of the falling raw materials prices. this lag can adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. during some periods, changes in market prices for raw materials can lead to changes in the global market prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients. in particular, the global market prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients can be affected by changes in the market prices for sulfur, ammonia, phosphate rock and/or phosphoric acid raw materials. increasing market prices for these raw materials tend to put upward pressure on the selling prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, and decreasing market prices for these raw materials tend to put downward pressure on selling prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients. when the market prices for these raw materials plunge rapidly, the selling prices for our concentrated phosphate crop nutrients can fall more rapidly than we are able to consume our raw material inventory that we purchased or committed to purchase in the past at higher prices. as a result, our costs may not fall as rapidly as the selling prices of our products. until we are able to consume the higher priced raw materials, our gross margins and profitability can be adversely affected. during periods when the prices for our products are falling because of falling raw material prices, we could be required to write down the value of our inventories. any such write-down would adversely affect our results of operations and the level of our assets. we carry our inventories at the lower of cost or market. in periods when the market prices for our products are falling rapidly in response to falling market prices for raw materials, it is possible that we could be required to write down the value of our inventories if market prices fall below our costs. any such write-down would adversely affect our results of operations and the level of our assets. any such effect could be material. our estimates of future selling prices reflect in part the purchase commitments we have from our customers. as a result, defaults on these existing purchase commitments because of the global or local economic and financial conditions or for other reasons could adversely affect our estimates of future selling prices and require additional inventory write-downs. 31 table of contents in the event of a disruption to existing transportation or terminaling facilities for our products or raw materials, alternative transportation and terminaling facilities might not have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our customers or facilities. in the event of a disruption of existing transportation or terminaling facilities for our products or raw materials, alternative transportation and terminaling facilities might not have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our customers or facilities. an extended interruption in delivering of products to our customers or the supply of natural gas, ammonia or sulfur to our production facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to risks associated with our international sales and operations, which could negatively affect our sales to customers in foreign countries as well as our operations and assets in foreign countries. some of these factors may also make it less attractive to distribute cash generated by our operations outside the united states to our stockholders, or to utilize cash generated by our operations in one country to fund our operations or repayments of indebtedness in another country or to support other corporate purposes. for fiscal 2012, we derived approximately 67% of our net sales from customers located outside of the united states. as a result, we are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: difficulties and costs associated with complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory environments; increased government ownership and regulation of the economy in the countries we serve; political and economic instability, including the possibility for civil unrest, inflation and adverse economic conditions resulting from governmental attempts to reduce inflation, such as imposition of higher interest rates and wage and price controls; nationalization of properties by foreign governments; the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls, trade barriers or other restrictions; and currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies, particularly the brazilian real and the canadian dollar. the occurrence of any of the above in the countries in which we operate or elsewhere could jeopardize or limit our ability to transact business there and could adversely affect our revenues and operating results and the value of our assets located outside of the united states. in addition, tax regulations, currency exchange controls and other restrictions may also make it economically unattractive to: distribute cash generated by our operations outside the united states to our stockholders; or utilize cash generated by our operations in one country to fund our operations or repayments of indebtedness in another country or to support other corporate purposes. 32 table of contents our international assets are located in countries with volatile conditions, which could subject us and our assets to significant risks. we are a global business with substantial assets located outside of the united states and canada. our operations in brazil, argentina, chile, china and india are a fundamental part of our business, and we have a joint venture investment in the miski mayo mine in peru that supplies phosphate rock to us. volatile economic, political and market conditions in these and other emerging market countries may have a negative impact on our operations, operating results and financial condition. as of the date of this report, there are ongoing protests against several other mining operations in peru. if these protests were to extend to the miski mayo mine, they could adversely affect our investment in the miski mayo joint venture or the supply of phosphate rock to us from the mine. adverse weather conditions, including the impact of potential hurricanes and excess rainfall, have in the past, and may in the future, adversely affect our operations, particularly our phosphates business, and result in increased costs, decreased production and potential liabilities. adverse weather conditions, including the impact of potential hurricanes and excess rainfall, have in the past and may in the future adversely affect our operations, particularly our phosphates business. in the past, hurricanes have resulted in minor physical damage to our facilities in florida and louisiana. in addition, a release of phosphoric acid process wastewater at our riverview, florida facility during a hurricane resulted in a small civil fine, as well as a private class action lawsuit and claims for natural resource damages by governmental agencies. more significantly, water treatment costs, particularly at our florida operations, due to high water balances tend to increase significantly following excess rainfall from hurricanes and other adverse weather. some of our florida facilities have high water levels that may, from time to time, require treatment. the high water balances at phosphate facilities in florida also led the florida department of environmental protection to adopt new rules requiring phosphate production facilities to meet more stringent process water management objectives for phosphogypsum management systems. if additional excess rainfall or hurricanes continue to occur in coming years, our facilities may be required to take additional measures to manage process water to comply with existing or future requirements and these measures could potentially have a material effect on our business and financial condition. adverse weather may also cause a loss of production due to disruptions in our supply chain. for example, oil refineries that supply sulfur to us can be closed as a result of a hurricane and incoming shipments of ammonia can be delayed, disrupting production at our florida or louisiana facilities. our operations are dependent on having the required permits and approvals from governmental authorities. denial or delay by a government agency in issuing any of our permits and approvals or imposition of restrictive conditions on us with respect to these permits and approvals may impair our business and operations. we hold numerous governmental environmental, mining and other permits and approvals authorizing operations at each of our facilities. a decision by a government agency to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations at the affected facility. expansion of our operations also is predicated upon securing the necessary environmental or other permits or approvals. over the next several years, we and our subsidiaries will be continuing our efforts to obtain permits in support of our anticipated florida mining operations at certain of our properties. a denial of, or delay in issuing, these permits, the issuance of permits with cost-prohibitive conditions, legal actions that prevent us from relying on permits or revocation of permits, could prevent us from mining at these properties and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 33 table of contents for example: in florida, local community participation has become an important factor in the permitting process for mining companies, and various local counties and other parties in florida have in the past and continue to file lawsuits challenging the issuance of some of the permits we require. in fiscal 2009, in connection with our efforts to permit an extension of our four corners, florida, phosphate rock mine, non-governmental organizations for the first time filed a lawsuit in federal court against the u.s. army corps of engineers ( corps ) with respect to its actions in issuing a federal wetlands permit. the federal wetlands permit issued by the corps has remained in effect. mining on the extension commenced and approximately 600 acres were mined and/or disturbed. the remaining 1,200 acres of this extension of our four corners mine are not currently in our near-term mining plan and we have moved the dragline that had been mining it to another area of our four corners mine. this lawsuit remains pending before the united states district court for the middle district of florida, jacksonville division. delays in receiving a federal wetlands permit impacted the scheduled progression of mining activities for the extension of our south fort meade, florida, phosphate rock mine into hardee county. as a result, we began to idle a portion of our mining equipment at the mine in the latter part of fiscal 2010. in june 2010, the corps issued the federal wetlands permit. subsequently, certain non-governmental organizations filed another lawsuit in the united states district court for the middle district of florida, jacksonville division, contesting the issuance of this federal wetlands permit, alleging that the corps actions in issuing the permit violated several federal laws relating to the protection of the environment. preliminary injunctions entered into in connection with this lawsuit resulted in shutdowns or reduced production at our south fort meade mine until april 2012. following a settlement of the lawsuit in february 2012 and court approval, we will be able to resume full production at our south fort meade mine by end of first quarter of fiscal 2013. the periods of shutdown and reduced phosphate rock production at our south fort meade mine resulted in costs to suspend operations and idle plant costs. lower phosphate rock mining production levels also adversely affected gross margin. in fiscal 2011, we were notified by the corps that it planned to conduct an area-wide environmental impact statement ( aeis ) for the central florida phosphate district. on june 1, 2012 the corps published notice of availability of the draft aeis in the federal register. the corps has announced that it will accept public comment on the draft aeis through july 31, 2012. the corps current schedule calls for it to issue the aeis in december 2012. this aeis is expected to include information on environmental impacts upon which the corps would rely in its consideration of our pending federal wetlands permits for our future ona and desoto mines and an extension of our wingate mine. we cannot predict the scope or actual timeline for this process, or what its outcome will be. although we do not currently expect the outcome of the aeis to materially influence the conditions of future federal wetlands permits for our mining in central florida, a protracted timeline for this process could delay our future permitting efforts. we have included additional discussion about permitting for our phosphate mines in florida under environmental, health and safety matters permitting in our management analysis and in note 22 of our consolidated financial statements. 34 table of contents we are subject to financial assurance requirements as part of our routine business operations. these financial assurance requirements affect our costs and increase our liquidity requirements. if we were unable to satisfy applicable financial assurance requirements, we might not be able to obtain or maintain permits we need to operate our business as we have in the past. our need to comply with these requirements could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. in many cases, as a condition to procuring or maintaining permits and approvals or otherwise, we are required to comply with financial assurance regulatory requirements. the purpose of these requirements is to provide comfort to the government that sufficient funds will be available for the ultimate closure, post-closure care and/or reclamation of our facilities. in most cases, these financial assurance requirements have historically been satisfied without the need for any expenditure of corporate funds to the extent our financial statements meet certain balance sheet and income statement financial strength tests. in the event that we are unable to satisfy these financial strength tests, we must utilize alternative methods of complying with the financial assurance requirements or could be subject to enforcement proceedings brought by relevant government agencies. potential alternative methods of compliance include negotiating a consent decree that imposes alternative financial assurance or other conditions or, alternatively, providing credit support in the form of cash escrows, surety bonds from insurance companies, letters of credit from banks, or other forms of financial instruments or collateral to satisfy the financial assurance requirements. use of these alternative means of financial assurance imposes additional expense on us. some of them, such as letters of credit, also use a portion of our available liquidity. other alternative means of financial assurance, such as surety bonds, may in some cases require collateral and generally require us to obtain a discharge of the bonds or to post additional collateral (typically in the form of cash or letters of credit) at the request of the issuer of the bonds. collateral that is required may be in many forms including letters of credit or other financial instruments that utilize a portion of our available liquidity, or in the form of assets such as real estate, which reduces our flexibility to manage or sell assets. in the past, we have also not always been able to satisfy applicable financial strength tests, and in the future, it is possible that we will not be able to pass the applicable financial strength tests, negotiate consent decrees, establish escrow accounts or obtain letters of credit, surety bonds or other financial instruments on acceptable terms and conditions or at a reasonable cost, or that the form and/or cost of compliance could increase, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. we have included additional discussion about financial assurance requirements under off balance sheet arrangements and obligations other commercial commitments in our management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the other environmental regulations to which we are subject may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition to permitting and financial assurance requirements, we are subject to numerous other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the u.s., canada, china, brazil and other countries where we operate. these laws and regulations govern a wide range of matters, including environmental controls, land reclamation, discharges to air and water and remediation of hazardous substance releases. they significantly affect our operating activities as well as the level of our operating costs and capital expenditures. in some international jurisdictions, environmental laws change frequently and it may be difficult for us to determine if we are in compliance with all material environmental laws at any given time. we are, and may in the future be, involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that could be material to us. these proceedings include legacy matters arising from activities of our predecessor companies and from facilities and businesses that we have never owned or operated. we have in the past been, are currently and may in the future be subject to legal and regulatory proceedings that could be material to our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. these proceedings may be brought by the government or private parties and may arise out of a variety of matters, including: allegations by the government or private parties that we have violated the permitting, financial assurance or other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations discussed above. for example, 35 table of contents the u.s. environmental protection agency is engaged in an ongoing review of mineral processing industries, including us and other phosphoric acid producers, under the u.s. resource conservation and recovery act. we are also involved in other proceedings alleging that, or to review whether, we have violated environmental laws in the united states and brazil. other environmental, health and safety matters, including alleged personal injury, wrongful death, property damage, subsidence from mining operations, natural resource damages and other damage to the environment, arising out of operations, including accidents. for example, several actions were initiated by the government and private parties related to releases of phosphoric acid process wastewater at our riverview, florida facility during the hurricanes in 2004. antitrust, commercial, tax and other disputes. for example, we are currently one of a number of defendants in multiple class-action lawsuits, in which the plaintiffs seek unspecified amounts of damages including treble damages, alleging that we and other defendants conspired to, among other matters, fix the price at which potash was sold in the united states, allocated market shares and customers and fraudulently concealed their anticompetitive conduct. the legal and regulatory proceedings to which we are currently or may in the future be subject can, depending on the circumstances, result in monetary damage awards, fines, penalties, other liabilities, injunctions or other court or administrative rulings that interrupt, impede or otherwise materially affect our business operations, and/or criminal sanctions. among other environmental laws, the u.s. comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act ( cercla ) imposes liability, including for cleanup costs, without regard to fault or to the legality of a party conduct, on certain categories of persons, including current and former owners and operators of a site and parties who are considered to have contributed to the release of hazardous substances into the environment. under cercla, or various u.s. state analogs, one party may, under certain circumstances, be required to bear more than its proportional share of cleanup costs at a site where it has liability if payments cannot be obtained from other responsible parties. as a crop nutrient company working with chemicals and other hazardous substances, we will periodically incur liabilities and cleanup costs, under cercla and other environmental laws, with regard to our current or former facilities, adjacent or nearby third-party facilities or offsite disposal locations. pending and potential legal and regulatory proceedings may arise out of our present activities, including operations at current facilities. they may also arise out of past activities by us, our predecessor companies and subsidiaries that our predecessors have sold. these past activities were in some cases at facilities that we and our subsidiaries no longer own or operate and may have never owned or operated. we have included additional information with respect to pending legal and regulatory proceedings in note 22 of our consolidated financial statements and in this report in part i, item 3, legal proceedings . these legal and regulatory proceedings involve inherent uncertainties and could negatively impact our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. the permitting, financial assurance and other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations to which we are subject may become more stringent over time. this could increase the effects on us of these laws and regulations, and the increased effects could be material. continued government and public emphasis on environmental, health and safety issues in the u.s., canada, china, brazil and other countries where we operate can be expected to result in requirements that apply to us and our operations that are more stringent than those that are described above and elsewhere in this report. these more stringent requirements may include among other matters increased levels of future investments and 36 table of contents expenditures for environmental controls at ongoing operations which will be charged against income from future operations, increased levels of the financial assurance requirements to which we are subject, increased efforts or costs to obtain permits or denial of permits, other new or interpretations of existing statutes or regulations that impose new or more stringent restrictions or liabilities, including liabilities under cercla or similar statutes, including restrictions or liabilities related to elevated levels of naturally-occurring radiation that arise from disturbing the ground in the course of mining activities, and other matters that could increase our expenses, capital requirements or liabilities or adversely affect our business, liquidity or financial condition. in addition, to the extent restrictions imposed in countries where our competitors operate, such as china, india, former soviet union countries or morocco, are less stringent than in the countries where we operate, our competitors could gain cost or other competitive advantages over us. these effects could be material. among other matters, there are several ongoing initiatives relating to nutrient discharges. new regulatory restrictions from these initiatives could have a material effect on either us or our customers. for example: on december 6, 2010, the epa adopted numeric water quality standards for the discharge of nitrogen and/or phosphorus into florida lakes and streams (the nnc rule ). the nnc rule set criteria for such discharges that would require drastic reductions in the levels of nutrients allowed in florida lakes and streams, and would have required us and others to significantly limit discharges of these nutrients in florida by march, 2012. subsequently, in a lawsuit that we and others brought, a federal court invalidated the nnc rule in part, upheld it in part, remanded the invalid parts of the rule to the epa for reconsideration and reproposal and postponed to july 2012 the effective date of the parts of the rule that the court upheld. the epa has proposed further postponing the effective date of the nnc rule and the florida department of environmental protection ( fdep ) has adopted state rules that, if approved by the epa, could supplant many of the requirements of the nnc rule. we cannot predict whether the fdep rule will be approved in whole or in part by the epa or when or the extent to which it will affect us. subject to the epa reconsideration of the remanded portion of its rule and consideration of the fdep rule, and further litigation developments, we expect that compliance with the requirements of the nnc rule could adversely affect our florida phosphate operations, require significant capital expenditures and substantially increase our annual operating expenses. the gulf coast ecosystem restoration task force, established by executive order of the president and comprised of five gulf states and eleven federal agencies, has delivered a final strategy for long-term ecosystem restoration for the gulf coast. the strategy calls for, among other matters, reduction of the flow of excess nutrients into the gulf through state nutrient reduction frameworks, new nutrient reduction approaches and reduction of agricultural and urban sources of excess nutrients. implementation of the strategy will require legislative or regulatory action at the state level. we cannot predict what the requirements of any such legislative or regulatory action could be or whether or how it would affect us or our customers. in march 2012, several nongovernmental organizations brought a lawsuit in federal court against the epa, seeking to require it to establish numeric nutrient criteria for nitrogen and phosphorous in the mississippi river basin and the gulf of mexico. the epa had previously denied a 2008 petition seeking such standards. on may 30, 2012, the court granted our motion to intervene in this lawsuit. in the event that the epa were to adopt such a rule, we cannot predict what its requirements would be or the effects it would have on us or our customers. regulatory restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions in the united states, canada or elsewhere could adversely affect us, and these effects could be material. various governmental initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions are under way or under consideration around the world. these initiatives could restrict our operating activities, require us to make changes in our operating activities that would increase our operating costs, reduce our efficiency or limit our output, require us to make 37 table of contents capital improvements to our facilities, increase our energy, raw material and transportation costs or limit their availability, or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, and these effects could be material to us. governmental greenhouse gas emission initiatives include among others: initiatives in the united states: various legislative or regulatory initiatives relating to greenhouse gases have been adopted or considered by the u.s. congress, the epa or various states. it is possible that future legislation or regulation addressing climate change could adversely affect our operating activities, energy, raw material and transportation costs, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, and these effects could be material. initiatives in canada: while the canadian federal government has withdrawn from the kyoto protocol, canada remains committed to significant greenhouse gas reductions. public announcements have indicated that future federal targets will align with the previously stated reduction targets for 2020 of 17 % below 2005 levels through a sector-by-sector approach aligned with the united states, where appropriate. our saskatchewan potash facilities continue to work with the canadian fertilizer institute and environment canada on a sector based approach. in may 2009, the province of saskatchewan, in which our canadian potash mines are located, began to consider legislation intended to lead to the development and administration of climate change regulation in saskatchewan by the province rather than the federal government. key elements under consideration by the province include a primary focus on achieving the 20% reduction by 2020 through technological advancements and creation of a technology fund to finance low-carbon investments by regulated emitters. as part of this initiative, a climate change foundation will be established to fund research and development projects related to reducing and avoiding greenhouse gas emissions, water conservation, biodiversity conservation, energy efficiency, adaptation planning, and education and public awareness. international initiatives. although international negotiations concerning greenhouse gas emission reductions and other responses to climate change are underway, final obligations in the post-kyoto protocol period after 2012 remain undefined. any new international agreements addressing climate change could adversely affect our operating activities, energy, raw material and transportation costs, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, and these effects could be material. in addition, to the extent climate change restrictions imposed in countries where our competitors operate, such as china, india, former soviet union countries or morocco, are less stringent than in the united states or canada, our competitors could gain cost or other competitive advantages over us. future climate change could adversely affect us. the prospective impact of potential climate change on our operations and those of our customers and farmers remains uncertain. some scientists have hypothesized that the impacts of climate change could include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperature levels and that these changes could be severe. these impacts could vary by geographic location. at the present time, we cannot predict the prospective impact of potential climate change on our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, or whether any such effects could be material to us. some of our competitors and potential competitors have greater resources than we do which may place us at a competitive disadvantage and adversely affect our sales and profitability. these competitors include state-owned and government-subsidized entities in other countries. we compete with a number of producers in north america and throughout the world, including state-owned and government-subsidized entities. some of these entities may have greater total resources than we do, and may be 38 table of contents less dependent on earnings from crop nutrients sales than we are. in addition, some of these entities may have access to lower cost or government-subsidized natural gas supplies, placing us at a competitive disadvantage. furthermore, governments as owners of some of our competitors may be willing to accept lower prices and profitability on their products in order to support domestic employment or other political or social goals. to the extent other producers of crop nutrients enjoy competitive advantages or are willing to accept lower profit levels, the price of our products, our sales volumes and our profits may be adversely affected. we have substantial cash balances that we invest in what we believe to be relatively short-term, highly liquid and high credit quality investments. we intend the investment risks, including counterparty default and lack of liquidity, on these types of investments to be relatively low, but market rates of return on these types of investments are also generally relatively low. in addition, our efforts to manage the investment risks could be unsuccessful. this could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. our significant cash flows from operations have resulted in cash and cash-equivalents of approximately $3.8 billion as of may 31, 2012. our cash and cash-equivalents should continue to increase when we generate cash from operations, except to the extent we reinvest in our business or make distributions to our stockholders. we generally invest these cash and cash-equivalents in what we believe to be relatively short-term, highly liquid and high credit quality instruments. because of these characteristics of our cash and cash-equivalents, the market rates of return on them are lower than our expectations for the return on capital invested in our business operations. moreover, our efforts to manage investment risk by focusing our investing on short-term, highly liquid and high credit quality investments could prove unsuccessful. the likelihood that our efforts to manage investment risk might prove unsuccessful is heightened during times when there is significant turmoil in the financial markets. as a result, counterparties could default on their obligations to us, or the liquidity of financial instruments that we hold could become impaired. any such event could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we do not own a controlling equity interest in our non-consolidated companies, some of which are foreign companies, and therefore our operating results and cash flow may be materially affected by how the governing boards and majority owners operate such businesses. there may also be limitations on monetary distributions from these companies that are outside of our control. together, these factors may lower our equity earnings or cash flow from such businesses and negatively impact our results of operations. we hold minority ownership interests in a joint venture that owns and operates a phosphate rock mine and in other companies that are not controlled by us. the operations or results of some of these companies are significant to us, and their operations can affect our earnings. because we do not control these companies either at the board or stockholder levels and because local laws in foreign jurisdictions and contractual obligations may place restrictions on monetary distributions by these companies, we cannot ensure that these companies will operate efficiently, pay dividends, or generally follow the desires of our management by virtue of our board or stockholder representation. as a result, these companies may contribute less than anticipated to our earnings and cash flow, negatively impacting our results of operations and liquidity. strikes or other forms of work stoppage or slowdown could disrupt our business and lead to increased costs. our financial performance is dependent on a reliable and productive work force. a significant portion of our workforce is covered by collective bargaining agreements with unions. unsuccessful contract negotiations or adverse labor relations could result in strikes or slowdowns. any disruptions may decrease our production and sales or impose additional costs to resolve disputes. the risk of adverse labor relations may increase as our profitability increases because labor unions expectations and demands generally rise at those times. 39 table of contents accidents occurring in the course of our operating activities could result in significant liabilities, interruptions or shutdowns of facilities or the need for significant safety or other expenditures. we engage in mining and industrial activities that can result in serious accidents. mining, in particular, can be a dangerous activity. if our safety procedures are not effective, or if an accident occurs, we could be subject to liabilities arising out of personal injuries or death, our operations could be interrupted and we might have to shut down or abandon affected facilities. accidents could cause us to expend significant amounts to remediate safety issues or to repair damaged facilities. for example: our esterhazy mine has had an inflow of salt saturated brine for more than 25 years. at various times, we have experienced changing amounts and patterns of brine inflows at the mine. the esterhazy mine is not insured against the risk of floods and water inflows and the costs to control the brine inflows could increase in the future. the brine inflows, risk to employees or remediation costs could also cause us to change our mining processes or abandon this mine, which in turn could significantly negatively impact our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources. since december 1985, we have had inflows of salt saturated brine into our esterhazy, saskatchewan mine. over the past century, several potash mines experiencing water inflow problems have flooded. in order to control brine inflows at esterhazy, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, expenditures, certain of which, due to their nature, have been capitalized, while others have been charged to expense. at various times, we experience changing amounts and patterns of brine inflows at the esterhazy mine. periodically, some of these inflows have exceeded available pumping capacity. if that were to continue for several months without abatement, it could exceed our available storage capacity and ability to effectively manage the brine inflow. this could adversely affect production at the esterhazy mine. see key factors that can affect results of operations and financial condition and potash net sales and gross margin in our management analysis for a discussion of costs and other information relating to the brine inflows. the brine inflow is variable, resulting in both net inflows (the rate of inflow less the amount we are pumping out of the mine) and net outflows (when we are pumping more brine out of the mine than the rate of inflow). there can be no assurance that: our pumping, surface storage, underground storage or injection well capacities for brine will continue to be sufficient, or that the pumping, grouting and other measures that we use to manage the inflows at the esterhazy mine will continue to be effective; there will not be a disruption in the supply of calcium chloride, which is a primary material used to reduce or prevent the flow of incoming brine; our estimates of the volumes of net inflows or net outflows of brine, or storage capacity for brine at the esterhazy mine, are accurate; the volumes of the brine inflows will not fluctuate from time to time, the rate of the brine inflows will not be greater than our current assumptions, changes in inflow patterns will not adversely affect our ability to locate and manage the inflows, or that any such fluctuations, increases or changes would not be material; and the expenditures to control the inflows will be consistent with our prior experience or future estimates. it is possible that the costs of remedial efforts at esterhazy may further increase beyond our current estimates in the future and that such an increase could be material, or, in the extreme scenario, that the water inflows, risk to employees or remediation costs may increase to a level which would cause us to change our mining processes or abandon the mine. 40 table of contents due to the ongoing brine inflow at esterhazy, underground operations at this facility are currently not insurable for water incursion problems. our mines at colonsay, saskatchewan, and carlsbad, new mexico, are also subject to the risks of inflow of water as a result of our shaft mining operations. some of our mines are subject to potential damage from earthquakes. the excavation of mines can result in potential seismic events or can increase the likelihood or potential severity of a seismic event. the rise and fall of water levels, such as those arising from the brine inflows and our remediation activities at our esterhazy mine, can also result in or increase the likelihood or potential severity of a seismic event. our esterhazy mine has experienced minor seismic events from time to time. a significant seismic event at one of our mines could result in damage to or flooding of the mine or, in the extreme scenario, cause us to change our mining process or abandon the mine. our underground potash shaft mines are subject to risk from fire. in the event of a fire, if our emergency procedures are not successful, we could have significant injuries or deaths. in addition, fire at one of our underground shaft mines could halt our operations at the affected mine while we investigate the origin of the fire or for longer periods for remedial work or otherwise. our underground potash shaft mines at esterhazy and colonsay, saskatchewan and carlsbad, new mexico are subject to risk from fire. any failure of our safety procedures in the future could result in serious injuries or death, or shutdowns, which could result in significant liabilities and/or impact on the financial performance of our potash business, including a possible material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we handle significant quantities of ammonia at several of our facilities. if our safety procedures are not effective, an accident involving our ammonia operations could result in serious injuries or death, or result in the shutdown of our facilities. we produce ammonia at our faustina, louisiana phosphate concentrates plant, use ammonia in significant quantities at all of our florida and louisiana phosphates concentrates plants and store ammonia at some of our distribution facilities. for our florida phosphates concentrates plants, ammonia is received at terminals in tampa and transported by pipelines to our facilities. our ammonia is generally stored and transported at high pressures. an accident could occur that could result in serious injuries or death, or the evacuation of areas near an accident. an accident could also result in property damage or the shutdown of our florida or louisiana phosphates concentrates plants, the ammonia terminals or pipelines serving those plants or our other ammonia storage and handling facilities. as a result, an accident involving ammonia could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we also use or produce other hazardous or volatile chemicals at some of our facilities. if our safety procedures are not effective, an accident involving these other hazardous or volatile chemicals could result in serious injuries or death, or result in the shutdown of our facilities. we use sulfuric acid in the production of concentrated phosphates in our florida and louisiana operations. some of our florida and louisiana facilities produce fluorosilicic acid, which is a hazardous chemical, for resale to third parties. we also use or produce other hazardous or volatile chemicals at some of our facilities. an accident involving any of these chemicals could result in serious injuries or death, or evacuation of areas near an accident. an accident could also result in property damage or shutdown of our facilities, or cause us to expend significant amounts to remediate safety issues or to repair damaged facilities. as a result, an accident involving any of these chemicals could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. 41 table of contents deliberate, malicious acts, including terrorism, could damage our facilities, disrupt our operations or injure employees, contractors, customers or the public and result in liability to us. intentional acts of destruction could hinder our sales or production and disrupt our supply chain. our facilities could be damaged or destroyed, reducing our operational production capacity and requiring us to repair or replace our facilities at substantial cost. employees, contractors and the public could suffer substantial physical injury for which we could be liable. governmental authorities may impose security or other requirements that could make our operations more difficult or costly. the consequences of any such actions could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by changing antitrust laws to which we are subject. increases in crop nutrient prices can increase the scrutiny to which we are subject under these laws. we are subject to antitrust and competition laws in various countries throughout the world. we cannot predict how these laws or their interpretation, administration and enforcement will change over time. changes in antitrust laws globally, or in their interpretation, administration or enforcement, may limit our existing or future operations and growth, or the operations of canpotex and phoschem, which serve as export associations for our potash and phosphates businesses, respectively. increases in crop nutrient prices have in the past resulted in increased scrutiny of the crop nutrient industry under antitrust and competition laws and can increase the risk that these laws could be interpreted, administered or enforced in a manner that could affect our operating practices or impose liability on us in a manner that could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by other changes in laws resulting from increases in food and crop nutrient prices. increases in prices for, among other things, food, fuel and crop inputs (including crop nutrients) have in the past been the subject of significant discussion by various governmental bodies and officials throughout the world. in response to increases, it is possible that governments in one of more of the locations in which we operate or where we or our competitors sell our products could take actions that could affect us. such actions could include, among other matters, changes in governmental policies relating to agriculture and biofuels (including changes in subsidy levels), price controls, tariffs, windfall profits taxes or export or import taxes. any such actions could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our competitive position could be adversely affected if we are unable to participate in continuing industry consolidation. most of our products are readily available from a number of competitors, and price and other competition in the crop nutrient industry is intense. in addition, crop nutrient production facilities and distribution activities frequently benefit from economies of scale. as a result, particularly during pronounced cyclical troughs, the crop nutrient industry has a long history of consolidation. mosaic itself is the result of a number of industry consolidations. we expect consolidation among crop nutrient producers could continue. our competitive position could suffer to the extent we are not able to expand our own resources either through consolidations, acquisitions, joint ventures or partnerships. in the future, we may not be able to find suitable companies to combine with, assets to purchase or joint venture or partnership opportunities to pursue. even if we are able to locate desirable opportunities, we may not be able to enter into transactions on economically acceptable terms. if we do not successfully participate in continuing industry consolidation, our ability to compete successfully could be adversely affected and result in the loss of customers or an uncompetitive cost structure, which could adversely affect our sales and profitability. 42 table of contents our strategy for managing market risk may not be effective. our businesses are affected by fluctuations in market prices for our products, the purchase price of natural gas, ammonia and sulfur consumed in operations, freight and shipping costs and foreign currency exchange rates. we periodically enter into derivatives and forward purchase contracts to mitigate some of these risks. however, our strategy may not be successful in minimizing our exposure to these fluctuations. see market risk in our management analysis and note 16 of our consolidated financial statements that is incorporated by reference in this report in part ii, item 8. a shortage of railcars, barges and ships for carrying our products and the raw materials we use in our business could result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of production or sales, and higher transportation or equipment costs. we rely heavily upon truck, rail, barge and ocean freight transportation to obtain the raw materials we need and to deliver our products to our customers. in addition, the cost of transportation is an important part of the final sale price of our products. finding affordable and dependable transportation is important in obtaining our raw materials and to supply our customers. higher costs for these transportation services or an interruption or slowdown due to factors including high demand, high fuel prices, labor disputes, layoffs or other factors affecting the availability of qualified transportation workers, adverse weather or other environmental events, or changes to rail, barge or ocean freight systems, could negatively affect our ability to produce our products or deliver them to our customers, which could affect our performance and results of operations. strong demand for grain and other products and a strong world economy increase the demand for and reduce the availability of transportation, both domestically and internationally. shortages of railcars, barges and ocean transport for carrying product and increased transit time may result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of sales and higher equipment and transportation costs. in addition, during periods when the shipping industry has a shortage of ships the substantial time needed to build new ships prevents rapid market response. delays and missed shipments due to transportation shortages, including vessels, barges, railcars and trucks, could result in customer dissatisfaction or loss of sales potential, which could negatively affect our performance and results of operations. a lack of customers access to credit can adversely affect their ability to purchase our products. some of our customers require access to credit to purchase our products. a lack of available credit to customers in one or more countries, due to global or local economic conditions or for other reasons, could adversely affect demand for crop nutrients. we extend trade credit to our customers and guarantee the financing that some of our customers use to purchase our products. our results of operations may be adversely affected if these customers are unable to repay the trade credit from us or financing from their banks. increases in prices for crop nutrient, other agricultural inputs and grain may increase this risk. we extend trade credit to our customers in the united states and throughout the world, in some cases for extended periods of time. in brazil, where there are fewer third-party financing sources available to farmers, we also have several programs under which we guarantee customers financing from financial institutions that they use to purchase our products. as our exposure to longer trade credit extended throughout the world and use of guarantees in brazil increases, we are increasingly exposed to the risk that some of our customers will not pay us or the amounts we have guaranteed. additionally, we become increasingly exposed to risk due to weather and crop growing conditions, fluctuations in commodity prices or foreign currencies, and other factors that influence the price, supply and demand for agricultural commodities. significant defaults by our customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. increases in prices for crop nutrients increase the dollar amount of our sales to customers. the larger dollar value of our customers purchases may also lead them to request longer trade credit from us and/or increase their need 43 table of contents for us to guarantee their financing of our products. either factor could increase the amount of our exposure to the risk that our customers may be unable to repay the trade credit from us or financing from their banks that we guarantee. in addition, increases in prices for other agricultural inputs and grain may increase the working capital requirements, indebtedness and other liabilities of our customers, increase the risk that they will default on the trade credit from us or their financing that we guarantee, and decrease the likelihood that we will be able to collect from our customers in the event of their default. tax rules governing the cargill transaction could result in limitations on our ability to execute certain actions for a period of time following the cargill transaction and, notwithstanding the irs ruling and tax opinion issued to cargill in connection with the cargill transaction, we could owe significant tax-related indemnification liabilities to cargill. the irs has issued a ruling to the effect that the split-off that is part of the cargill transaction will be tax-free to cargill and its stockholders, and in connection with the completion of the cargill transaction, cargill received a tax opinion relating to certain tax consequences of the cargill transaction. notwithstanding the irs ruling and tax opinion, however, the split-off and debt exchanges could be taxable to cargill and its stockholders under certain circumstances. for example, the split-off and debt exchanges would be taxable to cargill (but not its stockholders) under section 355(e) of the code ( section 355(e) ) if one or more persons acquire, directly or indirectly, stock representing a 50% or greater interest (by vote or value) in us as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the split-off. therefore, we and cargill have agreed to tax-related restrictions and indemnities set forth in a tax agreement related to the cargill transaction, under which we may be restricted or deterred from taking certain actions until may 26, 2013, including (i) redeeming or purchasing our stock in excess of agreed-upon amounts; (ii) issuing any equity securities in excess of agreed upon amounts; (iii) approving or recommending a third party acquisition of us; (iv) permitting any merger or other combination of mosaic or mos holdings; and (v) entering into an agreement for the purchase of any interest in mosaic or mos holdings, subject to certain exceptions. we have agreed to indemnify cargill for taxes and tax-related losses imposed on cargill as a result of the split-off and/or debt exchange failing to qualify as tax-free, if the taxes and related losses are attributable to, arise out of or result from certain prohibited acts or to any breach of, or inaccuracy in, any representation, warranty or covenant made by us in the tax agreement referred to above. the taxes and tax-related losses of cargill would be material if these transactions fail to qualify as tax-free, and so this indemnity would result in material liabilities from us to cargill that could have a material adverse effect on us. for a further discussion of the restrictions and indemnities set forth in the agreements related to the cargill transaction, please see note 2 to our consolidated financial statements. limitations on equity issuances, buybacks and other actions. the agreements relating to the cargill transaction restrict our ability to take certain actions, including making certain equity issuances or undertaking share buybacks. these restrictions and limitations apply until may 26, 2013 and, in the case of share buybacks, november 26, 2013. these restrictions and limitations may prevent us from pursuing business opportunities that may arise prior to expiration of such restrictions and limitations. please see note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for a summary of these restrictions and limitations. in addition, we are restricted from buying shares of class a common stock at a premium to the then-current market price of the common stock. stock sales following the split-off may affect the stock price of our common stock. the agreements relating to the cargill transaction provide for the possibility of another series of underwritten secondary public offerings, which would begin no earlier than may 26, 2013, with respect to our shares received by exchanging cargill stockholders (including shares received but not previously sold by the mac trusts). this second series of underwritten secondary public offerings is expected to be completed, at the latest, by october 26, 2015. these sales could result in downward pressure on the stock price of our common stock. 44 table of contents provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. our restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. these provisions include the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, the classification of our board of directors into three classes, a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent and the inability of our stockholders to request that our board of directors or chairman of our board call a special meeting of stockholders. we are also subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. in general, section 203 prohibits a publicly held delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years from the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the interested stockholder attained this status with the approval of the board of directors or unless the business combination was approved in a prescribed manner. a business combination includes mergers, asset sales and other transactions resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder. subject to exceptions, an interested stockholder is a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns, or within three years owned, 15% or more of the corporation voting stock. this statute could prohibit or delay the accomplishment of mergers or other takeover or change in control attempts with respect to us and, accordingly, may discourage attempts to acquire us. these provisions apply not only when they may protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics but even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in our best interests or those of our stockholders. our success will increasingly depend on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified and motivated employees. we believe our continued success depends on the collective abilities and efforts of our employees. like many businesses, a significant number of our employees, including some of our most highly skilled employees with specialized expertise in potash and phosphates operations, will be approaching retirement age throughout the next decade and beyond. in addition, we compete for a talented workforce with other businesses, particularly within the mining and chemicals industries in general and the crop nutrients industry in particular. our expansion plans are highly dependent on our ability to attract, retain and train highly qualified and motivated employees who are essential to the success of our ongoing operations as well as to our expansion plans. if we were to be unsuccessful in attracting, retaining and training the employees we require, our ongoing operations and expansion plans could be materially and adversely affected. future technological innovation could affect our business. future technological innovation such as the development of seeds that require less crop nutrients, or developments in the application of crop nutrients, if they occur, could have the potential to adversely affect the demand for our products and our results of operations, liquidity and capital resources. the success of our potash expansion plans and other strategic initiatives depends on our ability to effectively manage these initiatives. we have initiated several significant strategic initiatives, principally our plans to expand the annual production capacity of our potash business by more than five million tonnes of finished product by 2020. these strategic initiatives involve capital and other expenditures of several billions of dollars over a number of years and require effective project management. to the extent the processes we put in place to manage these initiatives are not effective, our capital expenditure and other costs may exceed our expectations or the benefits we expect from these initiatives might not be fully realized. 45 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we have included a discussion about market risks under market risk in the management analysis that is included in this report in part ii, item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation . this information is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 28 risk factors our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the risks and uncertainties described below. our operating results are highly dependent upon and fluctuate based upon business and economic conditions and governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry where we or our customers operate. these factors are outside of our control and may significantly affect our profitability. our operating results are highly dependent upon business and economic conditions and governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, which we cannot control. the agricultural products business can be affected by a number of factors. the most important of these factors, for u.s. markets, are: weather patterns and field conditions (particularly during periods of traditionally high crop nutrients consumption); quantities of crop nutrients imported to and exported from north america; current and projected grain inventories and prices, which are heavily influenced by u.s. exports and world-wide grain markets; and u.s. governmental policies, including farm and biofuel policies, which may directly or indirectly influence the number of acres planted, the level of grain inventories, the mix of crops planted or crop prices. international market conditions, which are also outside of our control, may also significantly influence our operating results. the international market for crop nutrients is influenced by such factors as the relative value of the u.s. dollar and its impact upon the cost of importing crop nutrients, foreign agricultural policies, including subsidy policies, the existence of, or changes in, import or foreign currency exchange barriers in certain foreign markets, changes in the hard currency demands of certain countries and other regulatory policies of foreign governments, as well as the laws and policies of the united states affecting foreign trade and investment. 28 table of contents our most important products are global commodities, and we face intense global competition from other crop nutrient producers that can affect our prices and volumes. our most important products are concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, including diammonium phosphate, or dap, and monoammonium phosphate, or map, and muriate of potash, or mop. we sell most of our dap, map and mop in the form of global commodities. our sales of these products face intense global competition from other crop nutrient producers. changes in competitors production or shifts in their marketing focus have in the past significantly affected both the prices at which we sell our products and the volumes that we sell, and are likely to continue to do so in the future. competitors are more likely to increase their production at times when world agricultural and crop nutrient markets are strong, and to focus on sales into regions where their returns are highest. increases in the global supply of dap, map and mop or competitors increased sales into regions in which we have significant sales could adversely affect our prices and volumes. competitors and potential new entrants in the markets for both concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and potash have in recent years expanded capacity or begun, or announced plans, to expand capacity or build new facilities. the extent to which current global or local economic and financial conditions, changes in global or local economic and financial conditions, or other factors may cause delays or cancellation of some of these ongoing or planned projects, or result in the acceleration of existing or new projects, is unclear. in addition, the level of exports by producers of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients in china depends to a significant extent on chinese government actions to curb exports through, among other measures, prohibitive export taxes at times when the government believes it desirable to assure ample domestic supplies of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients to stimulate grain and oilseed production. in addition, some of our competitors who are expanding their potash production capacity include other members of canpotex. canpotex members respective shares of canpotex sales is based upon the members respective proven peaking capacity for producing potash. when a canpotex member expands its production capacity, the new capacity is added to that member proven peaking capacity based on a test run at the maximum production level. antitrust and competition laws prohibit the members of canpotex from coordinating their production decisions, including the timing of their respective test runs. worldwide potash production levels during these test runs could exceed then-current market demand, resulting in an oversupply of potash and lower potash prices. we cannot accurately predict when or whether competitors or new entrants ongoing or planned capacity expansions or new facilities will be completed, the timing of competitors tests to prove peaking capacity for canpotex purposes, the cumulative effect of these and recently completed expansions, the impact of future decisions by the chinese government on the level of chinese exports of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, or the effects of these or other actions by our competitors on the prices for our products or the volumes that we are able to sell. our crop nutrients and other products are subject to price and demand volatility resulting from periodic imbalances of supply and demand, which may cause our results of operations to fluctuate. historically, the market for crop nutrients has been cyclical, and prices and demand for our products have fluctuated to a significant extent, particularly for phosphates and, to a lesser extent, potash. periods of high demand, increasing profits and high capacity utilization tend to lead to new plant investment and increased production. this growth increases supply until the market is over-saturated, leading to declining prices and declining capacity utilization until the cycle repeats. as a result, crop nutrient prices and volumes have been volatile. this price and volume volatility may cause our results of operations to fluctuate and potentially deteriorate. the price at which we sell our crop nutrient products 29 table of contents and our sales volumes could fall in the event of industry oversupply conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in contrast, high prices may lead our customers and farmers to delay purchasing decisions in anticipation of future lower prices, thus impacting our sales volumes. due to reduced market demand, depressed agricultural economic conditions and other factors, we and our predecessors have at various times suspended or reduced production at some of our facilities. the extent to which we utilize available capacity at our facilities will cause fluctuations in our results of operations, as we will incur costs for any temporary or indefinite shutdowns of our facilities and lower sales tend to lead to higher fixed costs as a percentage of sales. variations in crop nutrient application rates may exacerbate the cyclicality of the crop nutrient markets. farmers are able to maximize their economic return by applying optimum amounts of crop nutrients. farmers decisions about the application rate for each crop nutrient, or to forego application of a crop nutrient, particularly phosphate and potash, vary from year to year depending on a number of factors, including among others, crop prices, crop nutrient and other crop input costs or the level of the crop nutrient remaining in the soil following the previous harvest. farmers are more likely to increase application rates when crop prices are relatively high, crop nutrient and other crop input costs are relatively low and the level of the crop nutrient remaining in the soil is relatively low. conversely, farmers are likely to reduce or forego application when farm economics are weak or declining or the level of the crop nutrients remaining in the soil is relatively high. this variability in application rates can materially accentuate the cyclicality in prices for our products and our sales volumes. our crop nutrient business is seasonal, which may result in carrying significant amounts of inventory and seasonal variations in working capital, and our inability to predict future seasonal crop nutrient demand accurately may result in excess inventory or product shortages. the crop nutrient business is seasonal. farmers tend to apply crop nutrients during two short application periods, the strongest one in the spring before planting and the other in the fall after harvest. as a result, the strongest demand for our products typically occurs during the spring planting season, with a second period of strong demand following the fall harvest. in contrast, we and other crop nutrient producers generally produce our products throughout the year. as a result, we and/or our customers generally build inventories during the low demand periods of the year in order to ensure timely product availability during the peak sales seasons. the seasonality of crop nutrient demand results in our sales volumes and net sales typically being the highest during the north american spring season and our working capital requirements typically being the highest just prior to the start of the spring season. our quarterly financial results can vary significantly from one year to the next due to weather-related shifts in planting schedules and purchasing patterns. if seasonal demand exceeds our projections, we will not have enough product and our customers may acquire products from our competitors, which would negatively impact our profitability. if seasonal demand is less than we expect, we will be left with excess inventory and higher working capital and liquidity requirements. the degree of seasonality of our business can change significantly from year to year due to conditions in the agricultural industry and other factors. the distribution channels for crop nutrients have capacity to build significant levels of inventories. significant levels of inventories in the distribution channels for crop nutrients can adversely affect our sales volumes and selling prices. in order to balance the production needs of crop nutrient producers with farmers seasonal use of crop nutrients, crop nutrient distribution channels need to have the capacity to build significant inventories. the build-up of inventories in the distribution channels can become excessive, particularly during the cyclical periods of low 30 table of contents demand that have been typical in the crop nutrient industry. when there are excessive inventories in the distribution channel, our sales volumes and selling prices can be adversely impacted, even during periods in which farmers use of crop nutrients may remain strong. changes in transportation costs can affect our sales volumes and selling prices. the cost of delivery is a significant factor in the total cost to customers and farmers of crop nutrients. as a result, changes in transportation costs or in customer expectations about them can affect our sales volumes and prices. customer expectations about future events can have a significant effect on the demand for our products. these expectations can significantly affect our sales volumes and selling prices. customer expectations about future events has had and is expected to continue to have an effect on the demand and prices for crop nutrients. future events that may be affected by customer expectations include, among others: customer expectations about future crop nutrient prices and availability. customer expectations about selling prices and availability of crop nutrients has had and is expected to continue to have an effect on the demand for crop nutrients. when customers anticipate increasing crop nutrient selling prices, customers tend to accumulate inventories before the anticipated price increases. this can result in a lag in our realization of rising market prices for our products. conversely, customers tend to delay their purchases when they anticipate future selling prices for crop nutrients will stabilize or decrease, adversely affecting our sales volumes and selling prices. customer expectations about availability of crop nutrients can have similar effects on sales volumes and prices. customer expectations about future farmer economics. similarly, customer expectations about future farmer economics has had and is expected to continue to have an effect on the demand for crop nutrients. when customers anticipate improving farmer economics, customers tend to accumulate crop nutrient inventories in anticipation of increasing sales volumes and selling prices. this can result in a lag in our realization of rising market prices for our products. conversely, when customers anticipate declining farmer economics, customers tend to reduce the level of their purchases of crop nutrients, adversely affecting our sales volumes and selling prices. changes in customer expectations about transportation costs. as discussed above, increasing transportation costs effectively increase customers and farmers costs for crop nutrients and can reduce the amount we realize for our sales. expectations of decreasing transportation costs can result in customers and farmers anticipating that they may be able to decrease their costs by delaying purchases. as a result, changes in customer expectations about transportation costs can affect our sales volumes and prices. we conduct our operations primarily through a limited number of key production and distribution facilities. any disruption at one of these facilities could have a material adverse impact on our business. the risk of material disruption increases when demand for our products results in high operating rates at our facilities. we conduct our operations through a limited number of key production and distribution facilities. these facilities include our phosphate mines and concentrates plants, our potash mines and the ports and other distribution facilities through which we conduct our business. any disruption of operations at one of these facilities has the possibility of significantly affecting our production or our ability to distribute our products. operating these facilities at high rates during periods of high demand for our products increases the risk of mechanical or 31 table of contents structural failures, decreases the time available for routine maintenance and increases the impact on our operating results from any disruption. a disruption of operations at one of our key facilities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. insurance market conditions, our loss experience and other factors affect the insurance coverage that we carry, and we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. as a result, our insurance coverage may not adequately cover our losses. we maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance policies, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. we are subject to various self-retentions and deductibles under these insurance policies. as a result of market conditions, our loss experience and other factors, our premiums, self-retentions and deductibles for insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. in addition, significantly increased costs could lead us to decide to reduce, or possibly eliminate, coverage. as a result, a disruption of operations at one of our key facilities or a significant casualty could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition. important raw materials and energy used in our businesses in the past have been and may in the future be the subject of volatile pricing. changes in the price of our raw materials could have a material impact on our businesses. natural gas, ammonia and sulfur are key raw materials used in the manufacture of phosphate crop nutrient products. natural gas is used as both a chemical feedstock and a fuel to produce anhydrous ammonia, which is a raw material used in the production of concentrated phosphate products. natural gas is also a significant energy source used in the potash solution mining process. from time to time, our profitability has been and may in the future be impacted by the price and availability of these raw materials and other energy costs. because most of our products are commodities, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass through increased costs to our customers. a significant increase in the price of natural gas, ammonia, sulfur or energy costs that is not recovered through an increase in the price of our related crop nutrients products could have a material impact on our business. during periods when the price for concentrated phosphates is falling because of falling raw material prices, we may experience a lag in realizing the benefits of the falling raw materials prices. this lag can adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. during some periods, changes in market prices for raw materials can lead to changes in the global market prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients. in particular, the global market prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients can be affected by changes in the market prices for sulfur, ammonia, phosphate rock and/or phosphoric acid raw materials. increasing market prices for these raw materials tend to put upward pressure on the selling prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, and decreasing market prices for these raw materials tend to put downward pressure on selling prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients. when the market prices for these raw materials plunge rapidly, the selling prices for our concentrated phosphate crop nutrients can fall more rapidly than we are able to consume our raw material inventory that we purchased or committed to purchase in the past at higher prices. as a result, our costs may not fall as rapidly as the selling prices of our products. until we are able to consume the higher priced raw materials, our gross margins and profitability can be adversely affected. during periods when the prices for our products are falling because of falling raw material prices, we could be required to write down the value of our inventories. any such write-down would adversely affect our results of operations and the level of our assets. we carry our inventories at the lower of cost or market. in periods when the market prices for our products are falling rapidly in response to falling market prices for raw materials, it is possible that we could be required to 32 table of contents write down the value of our inventories if market prices fall below our costs. any such write-down would adversely affect our results of operations and the level of our assets. any such effect could be material. our estimates of future selling prices reflect in part the purchase commitments we have from our customers. as a result, defaults on these existing purchase commitments because of the global or local economic and financial conditions or for other reasons could adversely affect our estimates of future selling prices and require additional inventory write-downs. in the event of a disruption to existing transportation or terminaling facilities for our products or raw materials, alternative transportation and terminaling facilities might not have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our customers or facilities. in the event of a disruption of existing transportation or terminaling facilities for our products or raw materials, alternative transportation and terminaling facilities might not have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our customers or facilities. an extended interruption in delivering of products to our customers or the supply of natural gas, ammonia or sulfur to our production facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to risks associated with our international sales and operations, which could negatively affect our sales to customers in foreign countries as well as our operations and assets in foreign countries. some of these factors may also make it less attractive to distribute cash generated by our operations outside the united states to our stockholders, or to utilize cash generated by our operations in one country to fund our operations or repayments of indebtedness in another country or to support other corporate purposes. for fiscal 2013, we derived approximately 61% of our net sales from customers located outside of the united states. as a result, we are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: difficulties and costs associated with complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory environments; increased government ownership and regulation of the economy in the countries we serve; political and economic instability, including the possibility for civil unrest, inflation and adverse economic conditions resulting from governmental attempts to reduce inflation, such as imposition of higher interest rates and wage and price controls; nationalization of properties by foreign governments; the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls, trade barriers or other restrictions; and currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies, particularly the brazilian real and the canadian dollar. the occurrence of any of the above in the countries in which we operate or elsewhere could jeopardize or limit our ability to transact business there and could adversely affect our revenues and operating results and the value of our assets located outside of the united states. 33 table of contents in addition, tax regulations, currency exchange controls and other restrictions may also make it economically unattractive to: distribute cash generated by our operations outside the united states to our stockholders; or utilize cash generated by our operations in one country to fund our operations or repayments of indebtedness in another country or to support other corporate purposes. our international assets are located in countries with volatile conditions, which could subject us and our assets to significant risks. we are a global business with substantial assets located outside of the united states and canada. our operations in brazil, argentina, chile, china and india are a fundamental part of our business, and we have a joint venture investment in the miski mayo mine in peru that supplies phosphate rock to us. we also recently entered into a heads of agreement to form the northern promise joint venture which would develop a mine and chemical complexes that we presently expect would produce phosphate fertilizers, animal feed, feed grade purified phosphoric acid and sodium tripolyphosphate in the kingdom of saudi arabia. volatile economic, political and market conditions in these and other emerging market countries may have a negative impact on our operations, operating results and financial condition. natural resource extraction is an important part of the economy in peru, and, in the past, there have been protests against other natural resource operations in peru. as of the date of this report, there remain numerous social conflicts that exist within the natural resource sector in peru and as a result there is potential for active protests against natural resource companies. if the government of peru proactive efforts to address the social and environmental issues surrounding natural resource activities were not successful, protests could extend to or impact the miski mayo mine and adversely affect our investment in the miski mayo joint venture or the supply of phosphate rock to us from the mine. adverse weather conditions, including the impact of potential hurricanes, excess rainfall or drought, have in the past, and may in the future, adversely affect our operations, particularly our phosphates business, and result in increased costs, decreased production and potential liabilities. adverse weather conditions, including the impact of potential hurricanes and excess rainfall, have in the past and may in the future adversely affect our operations, particularly our phosphates business. in the past, hurricanes have resulted in minor physical damage to our facilities in florida and louisiana. in addition, a release of phosphoric acid process wastewater at our riverview, florida facility during a hurricane resulted in a small civil fine, settlement for an immaterial amount of claims for natural resource damages by governmental agencies and an ongoing private class action lawsuit. more significantly, water treatment costs, particularly at our florida operations, due to high water balances tend to increase significantly following excess rainfall from hurricanes and other adverse weather. some of our florida facilities have high water levels that may, from time to time, require treatment. the high water balances at phosphate facilities in florida also led the florida department of environmental protection to adopt new rules requiring phosphate production facilities to meet more stringent process water management objectives for phosphogypsum management systems. if additional excess rainfall or hurricanes continue to occur in coming years, our facilities may be required to take additional measures to manage process water to comply with existing or future requirements and these measures could potentially have a material effect on our business and financial condition. adverse weather may also cause a loss of production due to disruptions in our supply chain. for example, oil refineries that supply sulfur to us can be closed as a result of a hurricane and incoming shipments of ammonia can be delayed, disrupting production at our florida or louisiana facilities. 34 table of contents conversely, drought can also adversely affect us. for example, drought can reduce farmers crop yields and the uptake of phosphates and potash, reducing the need for application of additional phosphates and potash for the next planting season. drought can also lower river levels, adversely affecting delivery of our products to our customers. our operations are dependent on having the required permits and approvals from governmental authorities. denial or delay by a government agency in issuing any of our permits and approvals or imposition of restrictive conditions on us with respect to these permits and approvals may impair our business and operations. we hold numerous governmental environmental, mining and other permits and approvals authorizing operations at each of our facilities. a decision by a government agency to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations at the affected facility. expansion of our operations also is predicated upon securing the necessary environmental or other permits or approvals. over the next several years, we and our subsidiaries will be continuing our efforts to obtain permits in support of our anticipated florida mining operations at certain of our properties. a denial of, or delay in issuing, these permits, the issuance of permits with cost-prohibitive conditions, legal actions that prevent us from relying on permits or revocation of permits, could prevent us from mining at these properties and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for example: in florida, local community participation has become an important factor in the permitting process for mining companies, and various local counties and other parties in florida have in the past and continue to file lawsuits challenging the issuance of some of the permits we require. in fiscal 2009, in connection with our efforts to permit an extension of our four corners, florida, phosphate rock mine, non-governmental organizations for the first time filed a lawsuit in federal court against the u.s. army corps of engineers (the corps ) with respect to its actions in issuing a federal wetlands permit. the federal wetlands permit issued by the corps has remained in effect. mining on the extension commenced and approximately 600 acres were mined and/or disturbed. the remaining 1,200 acres of this extension of our four corners mine are not currently in our near-term mining plan. this lawsuit remains pending before the united states district court for the middle district of florida, jacksonville division. delays in receiving a federal wetlands permit impacted the scheduled progression of mining activities for the extension of our south fort meade, florida, phosphate rock mine into hardee county. as a result, we began to idle a portion of our mining equipment at the mine in the latter part of fiscal 2010. in june 2010, the corps issued the federal wetlands permit. subsequently, certain non-governmental organizations filed another lawsuit in the united states district court for the middle district of florida, jacksonville division, contesting the issuance of this federal wetlands permit, alleging that the corps actions in issuing the permit violated several federal laws relating to the protection of the environment. preliminary injunctions entered into in connection with this lawsuit resulted in shutdowns or reduced production at our south fort meade mine until april 2012. following a settlement of the lawsuit in february 2012 and court approval, we were able to resume normal production at our south fort meade mine. the periods of shutdown and reduced phosphate rock production at our south fort meade mine resulted in costs to suspend operations and idle plant costs. lower phosphate rock mining production levels also adversely affected gross margin. in fiscal 2011, we were notified by the corps that it planned to conduct an area-wide environmental impact statement ( aeis ) for the central florida phosphate district. on june 1, 2012 the corps 35 table of contents published notice of availability of the draft aeis in the federal register and announced that it would accept public comment on the draft aeis through july 31, 2012. we, along with other members of the public, submitted comments for the corps to consider as it completed the final aeis. the corps issued the final aeis on april 25, 2013. the final aeis includes information on environmental impacts upon which the corps will rely in its consideration of our pending federal wetlands permits for our future ona and desoto mines and an extension of our wingate mine. the corps has announced that it will issue an addendum to the aeis to provide a spanish language version of the executive summary section of the final aeis and to address several minor technical questions raised by commenters. we do not expect that issuance of the addendum will delay our development of permit applications. we have included additional discussion about permitting for our phosphate mines in florida under environmental, health and safety matters permitting in our management analysis and in note 21 of our consolidated financial statements. we are subject to financial assurance requirements as part of our routine business operations. these financial assurance requirements affect our costs and increase our liquidity requirements. if we were unable to satisfy applicable financial assurance requirements, we might not be able to obtain or maintain permits we need to operate our business as we have in the past. our need to comply with these requirements could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. in many cases, as a condition to procuring or maintaining permits and approvals or otherwise, we are required to comply with financial assurance regulatory requirements. the purpose of these requirements is to provide comfort to the government that sufficient funds will be available for the ultimate closure, post-closure care and/or reclamation of our facilities. in most cases, these financial assurance requirements have historically been satisfied without the need for any expenditure of corporate funds to the extent our financial statements meet certain balance sheet and income statement financial strength tests. in the event that we are unable to satisfy these financial strength tests, we must utilize alternative methods of complying with the financial assurance requirements or could be subject to enforcement proceedings brought by relevant government agencies. potential alternative methods of compliance include negotiating a consent decree that imposes alternative financial assurance or other conditions or, alternatively, providing credit support in the form of cash escrows or trusts, surety bonds from insurance companies, letters of credit from banks, or other forms of financial instruments or collateral to satisfy the financial assurance requirements. use of these alternative means of financial assurance imposes additional expense on us. some of them, such as letters of credit, also use a portion of our available liquidity. other alternative means of financial assurance, such as surety bonds, may in some cases require collateral and generally require us to obtain a discharge of the bonds or to post additional collateral (typically in the form of cash or letters of credit) at the request of the issuer of the bonds. collateral that is required may be in many forms including letters of credit or other financial instruments that utilize a portion of our available liquidity, or in the form of assets such as real estate, which reduces our flexibility to manage or sell assets. in the past, we have also not always been able to satisfy applicable financial strength tests, and in the future, it is possible that we will not be able to pass the applicable financial strength tests, negotiate consent decrees, establish escrow or trust accounts or obtain letters of credit, surety bonds or other financial instruments on acceptable terms and conditions or at a reasonable cost, or that the form and/or cost of compliance could increase, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. as more fully discussed in note 21 of our consolidated financial statements, the u.s. environmental protection agency is engaged in an ongoing review of mineral processing industries, including us and other phosphoric acid producers, under the u.s. resource conservation and recovery act. we are negotiating with the government the terms of a possible settlement of certain matters related to this review. the final terms of this possible settlement are not yet agreed or approved; however, if a settlement can be achieved, in all likelihood our multi-faceted commitments would include as one of its key elements our deposit into a trust fund of an amount currently estimated at $625 million to pre-fund a material portion of our existing asset retirement obligations for closure and post-closure care of our phosphogypsum management systems. 36 table of contents we have included additional discussion about financial assurance requirements under off balance sheet arrangements and obligations other commercial commitments in our management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the other environmental regulations to which we are subject may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition to permitting and financial assurance requirements, we are subject to numerous other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the u.s., canada, china, brazil and other countries where we operate. these laws and regulations govern a wide range of matters, including environmental controls, land reclamation, discharges to air and water and remediation of hazardous substance releases. they significantly affect our operating activities as well as the level of our operating costs and capital expenditures. in some international jurisdictions, environmental laws change frequently and it may be difficult for us to determine if we are in compliance with all material environmental laws at any given time. we are, and may in the future be, involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that could be material to us. these proceedings include legacy matters arising from activities of our predecessor companies and from facilities and businesses that we have never owned or operated. we have in the past been, are currently and may in the future be subject to legal and regulatory proceedings that could be material to our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. these proceedings may be brought by the government or private parties and may arise out of a variety of matters, including: allegations by the government or private parties that we have violated the permitting, financial assurance or other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations discussed above. for example, in connection with possible settlement of matters relating to the u.s. environmental protection agency ongoing review of mineral processing industries under the u.s. resource conservation and recovery act, we anticipate that any settlement would include, in general and among other elements, in addition to the trust fund discussed above, our commitment to capital expenditures likely to exceed $150 million in the aggregate over a period of several years and civil penalties. we are also involved in other proceedings alleging that, or to review whether, we have violated environmental laws in the united states and brazil. other environmental, health and safety matters, including alleged personal injury, wrongful death, complaints that our operations are adversely impacting nearby farms and other business operations, other property damage, subsidence from mining operations, natural resource damages and other damage to the environment, arising out of operations, including accidents. for example, several actions were initiated by the government and private parties related to releases of phosphoric acid process wastewater at our riverview, florida facility during the hurricanes in 2004. antitrust, commercial, tax (including tax audits) and other disputes. for example, we were one of a number of defendants in multiple class-action lawsuits, in which the plaintiffs sought unspecified amounts of damages including treble damages, alleging that we and other defendants conspired to, among other matters, fix the price at which potash was sold in the united states, allocated market shares and customers and fraudulently concealed their anticompetitive conduct. in january 2013, we settled these class action antitrust lawsuits for an aggregate of $43.8 million. the legal and regulatory proceedings to which we are currently or may in the future be subject can, depending on the circumstances, result in monetary damage awards, fines, penalties, other liabilities, injunctions or other court or administrative rulings that interrupt, impede or otherwise materially affect our business operations, and/or criminal sanctions. 37 table of contents among other environmental laws, the u.s. comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act ( cercla ) imposes liability, including for cleanup costs, without regard to fault or to the legality of a party conduct, on certain categories of persons, including current and former owners and operators of a site and parties who are considered to have contributed to the release of hazardous substances into the environment. under cercla, or various u.s. state analogs, one party may, under certain circumstances, be required to bear more than its proportional share of cleanup costs at a site where it has liability if payments cannot be obtained from other responsible parties. as a crop nutrient company working with chemicals and other hazardous substances, we will periodically incur liabilities and cleanup costs, under cercla and other environmental laws, with regard to our current or former facilities, adjacent or nearby third-party facilities or offsite disposal locations. pending and potential legal and regulatory proceedings may arise out of our present activities, including operations at current facilities. they may also arise out of past activities by us, our predecessor companies and subsidiaries that our predecessors have sold. these past activities were in some cases at facilities that we and our subsidiaries no longer own or operate and may have never owned or operated. settlements of legal and regulatory matters frequently require court approval. in the event a court were not to approve of a settlement, it is possible that we and the other party or parties to the matter might not be able to settle it on terms that were acceptable to all parties or that we could be required to accept more stringent terms of settlement than required by the opposing parties. we have included additional information with respect to pending legal and regulatory proceedings in note 21 of our consolidated financial statements and in this report in part i, item 3, legal proceedings . these legal and regulatory proceedings involve inherent uncertainties and could negatively impact our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. the permitting, financial assurance and other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations to which we are subject may become more stringent over time. this could increase the effects on us of these laws and regulations, and the increased effects could be material. continued government and public emphasis on environmental, health and safety issues in the u.s., canada, china, brazil and other countries where we operate can be expected to result in requirements that apply to us and our operations that are more stringent than those that are described above and elsewhere in this report. these more stringent requirements may include among other matters increased levels of future investments and expenditures for environmental controls at ongoing operations which will be charged against income from future operations, increased levels of the financial assurance requirements to which we are subject, increased efforts or costs to obtain permits or denial of permits, other new or interpretations of existing statutes or regulations that impose new or more stringent restrictions or liabilities, including liabilities under cercla or similar statutes, including restrictions or liabilities related to elevated levels of naturally-occurring radiation that arise from disturbing the ground in the course of mining activities, and other matters that could increase our expenses, capital requirements or liabilities or adversely affect our business, liquidity or financial condition. in addition, to the extent restrictions imposed in countries where our competitors operate, such as china, india, former soviet union countries or morocco, are less stringent than in the countries where we operate, our competitors could gain cost or other competitive advantages over us. these effects could be material. among other matters, there are several ongoing initiatives relating to nutrient discharges. new regulatory restrictions from these initiatives could have a material effect on either us or our customers. for example: on december 6, 2010, the epa adopted numeric water quality standards for the discharge of nitrogen and/or phosphorus into florida lakes and streams (the nnc rule ). the nnc rule set criteria for such discharges that would require drastic reductions in the levels of nutrients allowed in florida lakes and 38 table of contents streams, and would have required us and others to significantly limit discharges of these nutrients in florida by march, 2012. subsequently, in a lawsuit that we and others brought, a federal court invalidated the nnc rule in part, upheld it in part, remanded the invalid parts of the rule to the epa for reconsideration and reproposal and postponed the effective date of the parts of the rule that the court upheld. the part of the epa nnc rule that applies to lakes and springs is now in effect, and we are reviewing its potential effect on us. other portions of the proposed nnc rule remain pending. the florida department of environmental protection ( fdep ) has adopted state rules that could supplant many of the requirements of the nnc rule, and the epa and the fdep have reached an agreement in principle under which the fdep, not the epa, would implement numeric nutrient criteria for florida water. the agreement in principle is contingent upon the state of florida passing further legislation and the epa adopting further rules. subject to further legislative, rulemaking and litigation developments, we expect that compliance with the requirements of the nnc rule could adversely affect our florida phosphate operations, require significant capital expenditures and substantially increase our annual operating expenses. the gulf coast ecosystem restoration task force, established by executive order of the president and comprised of five gulf states and eleven federal agencies, has delivered a final strategy for long-term ecosystem restoration for the gulf coast. the strategy calls for, among other matters, reduction of the flow of excess nutrients into the gulf through state nutrient reduction frameworks, new nutrient reduction approaches and reduction of agricultural and urban sources of excess nutrients. implementation of the strategy will require legislative or regulatory action at the state level. we cannot predict what the requirements of any such legislative or regulatory action could be or whether or how it would affect us or our customers. in march 2012, several nongovernmental organizations brought a lawsuit in federal court against the epa, seeking to require it to establish numeric nutrient criteria for nitrogen and phosphorous in the mississippi river basin and the gulf of mexico. the epa had previously denied a 2008 petition seeking such standards. on may 30, 2012, the court granted our motion to intervene in this lawsuit. in the event that the epa were to adopt such a rule, we cannot predict what its requirements would be or the effects it would have on us or our customers. regulatory restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions in the united states, canada or elsewhere could adversely affect us, and these effects could be material. various governmental initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions are under way or under consideration around the world. these initiatives could restrict our operating activities, require us to make changes in our operating activities that would increase our operating costs, reduce our efficiency or limit our output, require us to make capital improvements to our facilities, increase our energy, raw material and transportation costs or limit their availability, or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, and these effects could be material to us. governmental greenhouse gas emission initiatives include among others: initiatives in the united states: various legislative or regulatory initiatives relating to greenhouse gases have been adopted or considered by the u.s. congress, the epa or various states. it is possible that future legislation or regulation addressing climate change could adversely affect our operating activities, energy, raw material and transportation costs, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, and these effects could be material. initiatives in canada: while the canadian federal government has withdrawn from the kyoto protocol, canada remains committed to significant greenhouse gas reductions. public announcements have indicated that future federal targets will align with the previously stated reduction targets for 2020 of 39 table of contents 17 % below 2005 levels through a sector-by-sector approach aligned with the united states, where appropriate. our saskatchewan potash facilities continue to work with the canadian fertilizer institute and environment canada on a sector based approach. in may 2009, the province of saskatchewan, in which our canadian potash mines are located, began to consider legislation intended to lead to the development and administration of climate change regulation in saskatchewan by the province rather than the federal government. key elements under consideration by the province include a primary focus on achieving the 20% reduction by 2020 through technological advancements and creation of a technology fund to finance low-carbon investments by regulated emitters. as part of this initiative, a climate change foundation will be established to fund research and development projects related to reducing and avoiding greenhouse gas emissions, water conservation, biodiversity conservation, energy efficiency, adaptation planning, and education and public awareness. international initiatives. although international negotiations concerning greenhouse gas emission reductions and other responses to climate change are underway, final obligations in the post-kyoto protocol period after 2012 remain undefined. any new international agreements addressing climate change could adversely affect our operating activities, energy, raw material and transportation costs, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, and these effects could be material. in addition, to the extent climate change restrictions imposed in countries where our competitors operate, such as china, india, former soviet union countries or morocco, are less stringent than in the united states or canada, our competitors could gain cost or other competitive advantages over us. future climate change could adversely affect us. the prospective impact of potential climate change on our operations and those of our customers and farmers remains uncertain. some scientists have hypothesized that the impacts of climate change could include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperature levels and that these changes could be severe. these impacts could vary by geographic location. at the present time, we cannot predict the prospective impact of potential climate change on our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, or whether any such effects could be material to us. some of our competitors and potential competitors have greater resources than we do which may place us at a competitive disadvantage and adversely affect our sales and profitability. these competitors include state-owned and government-subsidized entities in other countries. we compete with a number of producers in north america and throughout the world, including state-owned and government-subsidized entities. some of these entities may have greater total resources than we do, and may be less dependent on earnings from crop nutrients sales than we are. in addition, some of these entities may have access to lower cost or government-subsidized natural gas supplies, placing us at a competitive disadvantage. furthermore, governments as owners of some of our competitors may be willing to accept lower prices and profitability on their products in order to support domestic employment or other political or social goals. to the extent other producers of crop nutrients enjoy competitive advantages or are willing to accept lower profit levels, the price of our products, our sales volumes and our profits may be adversely affected. we have substantial cash balances that we invest in what we believe to be relatively short-term, highly liquid and high credit quality investments. we intend the investment risks, including counterparty default and lack of liquidity, on these types of investments to be relatively low, but market rates of return on these types of investments are also generally relatively low. in addition, our efforts to manage the investment risks could be unsuccessful. this could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. our significant cash flows from operations have resulted in cash and cash-equivalents of approximately $3.7 billion as of may 31, 2013. our cash and cash-equivalents should continue to increase when we generate cash 40 table of contents from operations, except to the extent we reinvest in our business or make distributions to our stockholders. we generally invest these cash and cash-equivalents in what we believe to be relatively short-term, highly liquid and high credit quality instruments. because of these characteristics of our cash and cash-equivalents, the market rates of return on them are lower than our expectations for the return on capital invested in our business operations. moreover, our efforts to manage investment risk by focusing our investing on short-term, highly liquid and high credit quality investments could prove unsuccessful. the likelihood that our efforts to manage investment risk might prove unsuccessful is heightened during times when there is significant turmoil in the financial markets. as a result, counterparties could default on their obligations to us, or the liquidity of financial instruments that we hold could become impaired. any such event could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we have stated our intention to consider repurchases of our shares once restrictions under the agreements relating to the cargill transaction expire on november 26, 2013. in the event we repurchase our shares, our substantial cash balances and liquidity could be reduced. the agreements relating to the cargill transaction prevent us from repurchasing our shares in a negotiated transaction or through open market repurchases until november 26, 2013. we have announced our intention to consider repurchasing shares, either in negotiated transactions with the class a shareholders or through open market repurchases, once the restrictions under the agreements relating to the cargill transaction expire. we have also indicated our willingness to use our available debt capacity, as well as our surplus cash, to fund share repurchases, financial assurance requirements arising in our business and strategic investments. to the extent we utilize our surplus cash and/or available debt capacity for these purposes, our available cash and liquidity could be reduced. we do not own a controlling equity interest in our non-consolidated companies, some of which are foreign companies, and therefore our operating results and cash flow may be materially affected by how the governing boards and majority owners operate such businesses. there may also be limitations on monetary distributions from these companies that are outside of our control. together, these factors may lower our equity earnings or cash flow from such businesses and negatively impact our results of operations. we recently entered into a heads of agreement to form the northern promise joint venture that would develop a mine and chemical complexes for an estimated $7 billion that would produce phosphate fertilizers, animal feed, feed grade purified phosphoric acid and sodium tripolyphosphate in the kingdom of saudi arabia. we expect to have a 25% interest in the joint venture and expect our cash investment will be up to $1 billion, funded over a four-year period. the success of this joint venture will depend on, among other matters, the ability of mosaic, ma aden and sabic to agree upon definitive agreements relating to the northern promise joint venture, the final terms of any such definitive agreements, the ability of the northern promise joint venture to obtain project financing in acceptable amounts and upon acceptable terms, the future success of current plans for the northern promise joint venture and any future changes in those plans. we also hold minority ownership interests in a joint venture that owns and operates a phosphate rock mine and in other companies that are not controlled by us. we expect that the operations and results of the northern promise joint venture will be, and the operations or results of some of the other joint ventures or companies are, significant to us, and their operations can affect our earnings. because we do not control these companies either at the board or stockholder levels and because local laws in foreign jurisdictions and contractual obligations may place restrictions on monetary distributions by these companies, we cannot ensure that these companies will operate efficiently, pay dividends, or generally follow the desires of our management by virtue of our board or stockholder representation. as a result, these companies may contribute less than anticipated to our earnings and cash flow, negatively impacting our results of operations and liquidity. 41 table of contents strikes or other forms of work stoppage or slowdown could disrupt our business and lead to increased costs. our financial performance is dependent on a reliable and productive work force. a significant portion of our workforce is covered by collective bargaining agreements with unions. unsuccessful contract negotiations or adverse labor relations could result in strikes or slowdowns. any disruptions may decrease our production and sales or impose additional costs to resolve disputes. the risk of adverse labor relations may increase as our profitability increases because labor unions expectations and demands generally rise at those times. our esterhazy mine has had an inflow of salt saturated brine for more than 25 years. since december 1985, we have had inflows of salt saturated brine into our esterhazy, saskatchewan mine. over the past century, several potash mines experiencing water inflow problems have flooded. in order to control brine inflows at esterhazy, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, expenditures, certain of which, due to their nature, have been capitalized, while others have been charged to expense. at various times, we experience changing amounts and patterns of brine inflows at the esterhazy mine. periodically, some of these inflows have exceeded available pumping capacity. if that were to continue for several months without abatement, it could exceed our available storage capacity and ability to effectively manage the brine inflow. this could adversely affect production at the esterhazy mine. see key factors that can affect results of operations and financial condition and potash net sales and gross margin in our management analysis for a discussion of costs and other information relating to the brine inflows. the brine inflow is variable, resulting in both net inflows (the rate of inflow is less the amount we are pumping out of the mine) and net outflows (when we are pumping more brine out of the mine than the rate of inflow). there can be no assurance that: our pumping, surface storage, underground storage or injection well capacities for brine will continue to be sufficient, or that the pumping, grouting and other measures that we use to manage the inflows at the esterhazy mine will continue to be effective; there will not be a disruption in the supply of calcium chloride, which is a primary material used to reduce or prevent the flow of incoming brine; our estimates of the volumes of net inflows or net outflows of brine, or storage capacity for brine at the esterhazy mine, are accurate; the volumes of the brine inflows will not fluctuate from time to time, the rate of the brine inflows will not be greater than our prior experience or current assumptions, changes in inflow patterns will not adversely affect our ability to locate and manage the inflows, or that any such fluctuations, increases or changes would not be material; and the expenditures to control the inflows will be consistent with our prior experience or future estimates. from time to time, new or improved technology becomes available to facilitate our remediation of the inflows, such as horizontal drilling techniques. taking advantage of these new or improved technologies may require significant capital expenditures and/or may increase our costs of remediation. it is possible that the costs of remedial efforts at esterhazy may further increase beyond our current estimates in the future and that such an increase could be material, or, in the extreme scenario, that the water inflows, risk to employees or remediation costs may increase to a level which would cause us to change our mining processes or abandon the mine, which in turn could significantly negatively impact our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources. 42 table of contents due to the ongoing brine inflow at esterhazy, underground operations at this facility are currently not insurable for water incursion problems. our mines at colonsay, saskatchewan, and carlsbad, new mexico, are also subject to the risks of inflow of water as a result of our shaft mining operations. other accidents occurring in the course of our operating activities could result in significant liabilities, interruptions or shutdowns of facilities or the need for significant safety or other expenditures. we engage in mining and industrial activities that can result in serious accidents. mining, in particular, can be a dangerous activity. if our safety procedures are not effective, or if an accident occurs, we could be subject to liabilities arising out of personal injuries or death, our operations could be interrupted and we might have to shut down or abandon affected facilities. accidents could cause us to expend significant amounts to remediate safety issues or to repair damaged facilities. for example: some of our mines are subject to potential damage from earthquakes. the excavation of mines can result in potential seismic events or can increase the likelihood or potential severity of a seismic event. the rise and fall of water levels, such as those arising from the brine inflows and our remediation activities at our esterhazy mine, can also result in or increase the likelihood or potential severity of a seismic event. our esterhazy mine has experienced minor seismic events from time to time. a significant seismic event at one of our mines could result in damage to or flooding of the mine or, in the extreme scenario, cause us to change our mining process or abandon the mine. our underground potash shaft mines are subject to risk from fire. in the event of a fire, if our emergency procedures are not successful, we could have significant injuries or deaths. in addition, fire at one of our underground shaft mines could halt our operations at the affected mine while we investigate the origin of the fire or for longer periods for remedial work or otherwise. our underground potash shaft mines at esterhazy and colonsay, saskatchewan and carlsbad, new mexico are subject to risk from fire. any failure of our safety procedures in the future could result in serious injuries or death, or shutdowns, which could result in significant liabilities and/or impact on the financial performance of our potash business, including a possible material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we handle significant quantities of ammonia at several of our facilities. if our safety procedures are not effective, an accident involving our ammonia operations could result in serious injuries or death, or result in the shutdown of our facilities. we produce ammonia at our faustina, louisiana phosphate concentrates plant, use ammonia in significant quantities at all of our florida and louisiana phosphates concentrates plants and store ammonia at some of our distribution facilities. we are considering a possible significant expansion of our ammonia production at our faustina, louisiana phosphate concentrates plant. for our florida phosphates concentrates plants, ammonia is received at terminals in tampa and transported by pipelines to our facilities. our ammonia is generally stored and transported at high pressures. an accident could occur that could result in serious injuries or death, or the evacuation of areas near an accident. an accident could also result in property damage or the shutdown of our florida or louisiana phosphates concentrates plants, the ammonia terminals or pipelines serving those plants or our other ammonia storage and handling facilities. as a result, an accident involving ammonia could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we also use or produce other hazardous or volatile chemicals at some of our facilities. if our safety procedures are not effective, an accident involving these other hazardous or volatile chemicals could result in serious injuries or death, or result in the shutdown of our facilities. we use sulfuric acid in the production of concentrated phosphates in our florida and louisiana operations. some of our florida and louisiana facilities produce fluorosilicic acid, which is a hazardous chemical, for resale to third parties. we also use or produce other hazardous or volatile chemicals at 43 table of contents some of our facilities. an accident involving any of these chemicals could result in serious injuries or death, or evacuation of areas near an accident. an accident could also result in property damage or shutdown of our facilities, or cause us to expend significant amounts to remediate safety issues or to repair damaged facilities. as a result, an accident involving any of these chemicals could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. deliberate, malicious acts, including terrorism, could damage our facilities, disrupt our operations or injure employees, contractors, customers or the public and result in liability to us. intentional acts of destruction could hinder our sales or production and disrupt our supply chain. our facilities could be damaged or destroyed, reducing our operational production capacity and requiring us to repair or replace our facilities at substantial cost. employees, contractors and the public could suffer substantial physical injury for which we could be liable. governmental authorities may impose security or other requirements that could make our operations more difficult or costly. the consequences of any such actions could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by changing antitrust laws to which we are subject. increases in crop nutrient prices can increase the scrutiny to which we are subject under these laws. we are subject to antitrust and competition laws in various countries throughout the world. we cannot predict how these laws or their interpretation, administration and enforcement will change over time. changes in antitrust laws globally, or in their interpretation, administration or enforcement, may limit our existing or future operations and growth, or the operations of canpotex and phoschem, which serve as export associations for our potash and phosphates businesses, respectively. increases in crop nutrient prices have in the past resulted in increased scrutiny of the crop nutrient industry under antitrust and competition laws and can increase the risk that these laws could be interpreted, administered or enforced in a manner that could affect our operating practices or impose liability on us in a manner that could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by other changes in laws resulting from increases in food and crop nutrient prices. increases in prices for, among other things, food, fuel and crop inputs (including crop nutrients) have in the past been the subject of significant discussion by various governmental bodies and officials throughout the world. in response to increases, it is possible that governments in one of more of the locations in which we operate or where we or our competitors sell our products could take actions that could affect us. such actions could include, among other matters, changes in governmental policies relating to agriculture and biofuels (including changes in subsidy levels), price controls, tariffs, windfall profits taxes or export or import taxes. any such actions could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our competitive position could be adversely affected if we are unable to participate in continuing industry consolidation. most of our products are readily available from a number of competitors, and price and other competition in the crop nutrient industry is intense. in addition, crop nutrient production facilities and distribution activities frequently benefit from economies of scale. as a result, particularly during pronounced cyclical troughs, the crop nutrient industry has a long history of consolidation. mosaic itself is the result of a number of industry consolidations. we expect consolidation among crop nutrient producers could continue. our competitive position could suffer to the extent we are not able to expand our own resources either through consolidations, acquisitions, joint ventures or partnerships. in the future, we may not be able to find suitable companies to combine with, assets to purchase or joint venture or partnership opportunities to pursue. even if we are able to locate desirable opportunities, we may not be able to enter into transactions on economically acceptable terms. if we do not 44 table of contents successfully participate in continuing industry consolidation, our ability to compete successfully could be adversely affected and result in the loss of customers or an uncompetitive cost structure, which could adversely affect our sales and profitability. our strategy for managing market risk may not be effective. our businesses are affected by fluctuations in market prices for our products, the purchase price of natural gas, ammonia and sulfur consumed in operations, freight and shipping costs and foreign currency exchange rates. we periodically enter into derivatives and forward purchase contracts to mitigate some of these risks. however, our strategy may not be successful in minimizing our exposure to these fluctuations. see market risk in our management analysis and note 15 of our consolidated financial statements that is incorporated by reference in this report in part ii, item 8. a shortage of railcars, barges and ships for carrying our products and the raw materials we use in our business could result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of production or sales, and higher transportation or equipment costs. we rely heavily upon truck, rail, barge and ocean freight transportation to obtain the raw materials we need and to deliver our products to our customers. in addition, the cost of transportation is an important part of the final sale price of our products. finding affordable and dependable transportation is important in obtaining our raw materials and to supply our customers. higher costs for these transportation services or an interruption or slowdown due to factors including high demand, high fuel prices, labor disputes, layoffs or other factors affecting the availability of qualified transportation workers, adverse weather or other environmental events, or changes to rail, barge or ocean freight systems, could negatively affect our ability to produce our products or deliver them to our customers, which could affect our performance and results of operations. strong demand for grain and other products and a strong world economy increase the demand for and reduce the availability of transportation, both domestically and internationally. shortages of railcars, barges and ocean transport for carrying product and increased transit time may result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of sales and higher equipment and transportation costs. in addition, during periods when the shipping industry has a shortage of ships the substantial time needed to build new ships prevents rapid market response. delays and missed shipments due to transportation shortages, including vessels, barges, railcars and trucks, could result in customer dissatisfaction or loss of sales potential, which could negatively affect our performance and results of operations. a lack of customers access to credit can adversely affect their ability to purchase our products. some of our customers require access to credit to purchase our products. a lack of available credit to customers in one or more countries, due to global or local economic conditions or for other reasons, could adversely affect demand for crop nutrients. we extend trade credit to our customers and guarantee the financing that some of our customers use to purchase our products. our results of operations may be adversely affected if these customers are unable to repay the trade credit from us or financing from their banks. increases in prices for crop nutrient, other agricultural inputs and grain may increase this risk. we extend trade credit to our customers in the united states and throughout the world, in some cases for extended periods of time. in brazil, where there are fewer third-party financing sources available to farmers, we also have several programs under which we guarantee customers financing from financial institutions that they use to purchase our products. as our exposure to longer trade credit extended throughout the world and use of guarantees in brazil increases, we are increasingly exposed to the risk that some of our customers will not pay us or the amounts we have guaranteed. additionally, we become increasingly exposed to risk due to weather and crop growing conditions, fluctuations in commodity prices or foreign currencies, and other factors that influence 45 table of contents the price, supply and demand for agricultural commodities. significant defaults by our customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. increases in prices for crop nutrients increase the dollar amount of our sales to customers. the larger dollar value of our customers purchases may also lead them to request longer trade credit from us and/or increase their need for us to guarantee their financing of our products. either factor could increase the amount of our exposure to the risk that our customers may be unable to repay the trade credit from us or financing from their banks that we guarantee. in addition, increases in prices for other agricultural inputs and grain may increase the working capital requirements, indebtedness and other liabilities of our customers, increase the risk that they will default on the trade credit from us or their financing that we guarantee, and decrease the likelihood that we will be able to collect from our customers in the event of their default. tax rules governing the cargill transaction limited our ability to execute certain actions for a period of time following the cargill transaction and, if our procedures for compliance with those restrictions were ineffective, notwithstanding the irs ruling and tax opinion issued to cargill in connection with the cargill transaction, we could owe significant tax-related indemnification liabilities to cargill. the irs issued a ruling to the effect that the split-off that is part of the cargill transaction would be tax-free to cargill and its stockholders, and in connection with the completion of the cargill transaction, cargill received a tax opinion relating to certain tax consequences of the cargill transaction. notwithstanding the irs ruling and tax opinion, however, the split-off and debt exchanges could be taxable to cargill and its stockholders under certain circumstances. therefore, we and cargill agreed to tax-related restrictions and indemnities set forth in a tax agreement related to the cargill transaction, under which we were restricted or deterred from taking certain actions until may 26, 2013, including (i) redeeming or purchasing our stock in excess of agreed-upon amounts; (ii) issuing any equity securities in excess of agreed upon amounts; (iii) approving or recommending a third party acquisition of us; (iv) permitting any merger or other combination of mosaic or mos holdings; and (v) entering into an agreement for the purchase of any interest in mosaic or mos holdings, subject to certain exceptions. we agreed to indemnify cargill for taxes and tax-related losses imposed on cargill as a result of the split-off and/or debt exchange failing to qualify as tax-free, if the taxes and related losses are attributable to, arise out of or result from certain prohibited acts or to any breach of, or inaccuracy in, any representation, warranty or covenant made by us in the tax agreement referred to above. the taxes and tax-related losses of cargill would be material if these transactions fail to qualify as tax-free, and, if our procedures for avoiding any of these prohibited acts or breaches were ineffective, this indemnity would result in material liabilities from us to cargill that could have a material adverse effect on us. for a further discussion of the restrictions and indemnities set forth in the agreements related to the cargill transaction, please see note 2 to our consolidated financial statements. limitations on equity buybacks. the agreements relating to the cargill transaction restrict our ability to buy back our shares (other than self-tender offers to all of our stockholders complying with rule 13e-4 under the securities exchange act of 1934). this restriction applies until november 26, 2013. the restriction may prevent us from pursuing business opportunities that may arise prior to expiration of such restriction. please see note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for a summary of this restriction. in addition, we are restricted from buying shares of class a common stock at a premium to the then-current market price of the common stock. stock sales following the split-off may affect the stock price of our common stock. the agreements relating to the cargill transaction provide for the possibility of another series of underwritten secondary public offerings, which would begin no earlier than may 26, 2013, with respect to our shares received by exchanging cargill stockholders (including shares received but not previously sold by the mac trusts). this second series of underwritten secondary public offerings is expected to be completed, at the latest, by 46 table of contents october 26, 2015. these sales could result in downward pressure on the stock price of our common stock. the mac trusts have notified us that they will not exercise their first right to request such an offering during the period of may 26, 2013 through october 26, 2013. provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. our restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. these provisions include the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, the classification of our board of directors into three classes, a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent and the inability of our stockholders to request that our board of directors or chairman of our board call a special meeting of stockholders. we are also subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. in general, section 203 prohibits a publicly held delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years from the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the interested stockholder attained this status with the approval of the board of directors or unless the business combination was approved in a prescribed manner. a business combination includes mergers, asset sales and other transactions resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder. subject to exceptions, an interested stockholder is a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns, or within three years owned, 15% or more of the corporation voting stock. this statute could prohibit or delay the accomplishment of mergers or other takeover or change in control attempts with respect to us and, accordingly, may discourage attempts to acquire us. these provisions apply not only when they may protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics but even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in our best interests or those of our stockholders. our success will increasingly depend on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified and motivated employees. we believe our continued success depends on the collective abilities and efforts of our employees. like many businesses, a significant number of our employees, including some of our most highly skilled employees with specialized expertise in potash and phosphates operations, will be approaching retirement age throughout the next decade and beyond. in addition, we compete for a talented workforce with other businesses, particularly within the mining and chemicals industries in general and the crop nutrients industry in particular. our expansion plans are highly dependent on our ability to attract, retain and train highly qualified and motivated employees who are essential to the success of our ongoing operations as well as to our expansion plans. if we were to be unsuccessful in attracting, retaining and training the employees we require, our ongoing operations and expansion plans could be materially and adversely affected. future technological innovation could affect our business. future technological innovation such as the development of seeds that require less crop nutrients, or developments in the application of crop nutrients, if they occur, could have the potential to adversely affect the demand for our products and our results of operations, liquidity and capital resources. the success of our potash expansion plans and other strategic initiatives depends on our ability to effectively manage these initiatives. we have initiated several significant strategic initiatives, principally our plans to expand the annual production capacity of our potash business and the prospective northern promise joint venture. these strategic initiatives 47 table of contents involve capital and other expenditures of several billions of dollars over a number of years and require effective project management. to the extent the processes we (or, for the northern promise joint venture, we together with ma aden and sabic) put in place to manage these initiatives are not effective, our capital expenditure and other costs may exceed our expectations or the benefits we expect from these initiatives might not be fully realized. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 52 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we have included a discussion about market risks under market risk in the management analysis that is included in this report in part ii, item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation . this information is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 25 risk factors. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the risks and uncertainties described below. our operating results are highly dependent upon and fluctuate based upon business and economic conditions and governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry where we or our customers operate. these factors are outside of our control and may significantly affect our profitability. our operating results are highly dependent upon business and economic conditions and governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, which we cannot control. the agricultural products business can be affected by a number of factors. the most important of these factors, for u.s. markets, are: weather patterns and field conditions (particularly during periods of traditionally high crop nutrients consumption); quantities of crop nutrients imported to and exported from north america; current and projected grain inventories and prices, which are heavily influenced by u.s. exports and world-wide grain markets; and 25 table of contents u.s. governmental policies, including farm and biofuel policies, which may directly or indirectly influence the number of acres planted, the level of grain inventories, the mix of crops planted or crop prices. international market conditions, which are also outside of our control, may also significantly influence our operating results. the international market for crop nutrients is influenced by such factors as the relative value of the u.s. dollar and its impact upon the cost of importing crop nutrients, foreign agricultural policies, including subsidy policies, the existence of, or changes in, import or foreign currency exchange barriers in certain foreign markets, changes in the hard currency demands of certain countries and other regulatory policies of foreign governments, as well as the laws and policies of the united states affecting foreign trade and investment. our most important products are global commodities, and we face intense global competition from other crop nutrient producers that can affect our prices and volumes. our most important products are concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, including diammonium phosphate, or dap, monoammonium phosphate, or map, mes and muriate of potash, or mop. we sell most of our dap, map and mop in the form of global commodities. our sales of these products face intense global competition from other crop nutrient producers. changes in competitors production or shifts in their marketing focus have in the past significantly affected both the prices at which we sell our products and the volumes that we sell, and are likely to continue to do so in the future. competitors are more likely to increase their production at times when world agricultural and crop nutrient markets are strong, and to focus on sales into regions where their returns are highest. increases in the global supply of dap, map and mop or competitors increased sales into regions in which we have significant sales could adversely affect our prices and volumes. competitors and potential new entrants in the markets for both concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and potash have in recent years expanded capacity, or begun, or announced plans, to expand capacity or build new facilities. the extent to which current global or local economic and financial conditions, changes in global or local economic and financial conditions, or other factors may cause delays or cancellation of some of these ongoing or planned projects, or result in the acceleration of existing or new projects, is unclear. in addition, the level of exports by producers of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients in china depends to a significant extent on chinese government actions to curb exports through, among other measures, prohibitive export taxes at times when the government believes it desirable to assure ample domestic supplies of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients to stimulate grain and oilseed production. in addition, some of our competitors who are expanding their potash production capacity include other members of canpotex. canpotex members respective shares of canpotex sales is based upon the members respective proven peaking capacity for producing potash. when a canpotex member expands its production capacity, the new capacity is added to that member proven peaking capacity based on a test run at the maximum production level. antitrust and competition laws prohibit the members of canpotex from coordinating their production decisions, including the timing of their respective test runs. worldwide potash production levels during these test runs could exceed then-current market demand, resulting in an oversupply of potash and lower potash prices. we cannot accurately predict when or whether competitors or new entrants ongoing or planned capacity expansions or new facilities will be completed, the timing of competitors tests to prove peaking capacity for canpotex purposes, the cumulative effect of these and recently completed expansions, the impact of future decisions by the chinese government on the level of chinese exports of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, or the effects of these or other actions by our competitors on the prices for our products or the volumes that we are able to sell. 26 table of contents our crop nutrients and other products are subject to price and demand volatility resulting from periodic imbalances of supply and demand, which may cause our results of operations to fluctuate. historically, the market for crop nutrients has been cyclical, and prices and demand for our products have fluctuated to a significant extent, particularly for phosphates and, to a lesser extent, potash. periods of high demand, increasing profits and high capacity utilization tend to lead to new plant investment and increased production. this growth increases supply until the market is over-saturated, leading to declining prices and declining capacity utilization until the cycle repeats. as a result, crop nutrient prices and volumes have been volatile. this price and volume volatility may cause our results of operations to fluctuate and potentially deteriorate. the price at which we sell our crop nutrient products and our sales volumes could fall in the event of industry oversupply conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in contrast, high prices may lead our customers and farmers to delay purchasing decisions in anticipation of future lower prices, thus impacting our sales volumes. due to reduced market demand, depressed agricultural economic conditions and other factors, we and our predecessors have at various times suspended or reduced production at some of our facilities. the extent to which we utilize available capacity at our facilities will cause fluctuations in our results of operations, as we will incur costs for any temporary or indefinite shutdowns of our facilities and lower sales tend to lead to higher fixed costs as a percentage of sales. variations in crop nutrient application rates may exacerbate the cyclicality of the crop nutrient markets. farmers are able to maximize their economic return by applying optimum amounts of crop nutrients. farmers decisions about the application rate for each crop nutrient, or to forego application of a crop nutrient, particularly phosphate and potash, vary from year to year depending on a number of factors, including among others, crop prices, crop nutrient and other crop input costs or the level of the crop nutrient remaining in the soil following the previous harvest. farmers are more likely to increase application rates when crop prices are relatively high, crop nutrient and other crop input costs are relatively low and the level of the crop nutrient remaining in the soil is relatively low. conversely, farmers are likely to reduce or forego application when farm economics are weak or declining or the level of the crop nutrients remaining in the soil is relatively high. this variability in application rates can materially accentuate the cyclicality in prices for our products and our sales volumes. our crop nutrient business is seasonal, which may result in carrying significant amounts of inventory and seasonal variations in working capital, and our inability to predict future seasonal crop nutrient demand accurately may result in excess inventory or product shortages. the crop nutrient business is seasonal. farmers tend to apply crop nutrients during two short application periods, the strongest one in the spring before planting and the other in the fall after harvest. as a result, the strongest demand for our products typically occurs during the spring planting season, with a second period of strong demand following the fall harvest. in contrast, we and other crop nutrient producers generally produce our products throughout the year. as a result, we and/or our customers generally build inventories during the low demand periods of the year in order to ensure timely product availability during the peak sales seasons. the seasonality of crop nutrient demand results in our sales volumes and net sales typically being the highest during the north american spring season and our working capital requirements typically being the highest just prior to the start of the spring season. our quarterly financial results can vary significantly from one year to the next due to weather-related shifts in planting schedules and purchasing patterns. if seasonal demand exceeds our projections, we will not have enough product and our customers may acquire products from our competitors, which would negatively impact our profitability. if seasonal demand is less than we expect, we will be left with excess inventory and higher working capital and liquidity requirements. 27 table of contents the degree of seasonality of our business can change significantly from year to year due to conditions in the agricultural industry and other factors. the distribution channels for crop nutrients have capacity to build significant levels of inventories. significant levels of inventories in the distribution channels for crop nutrients can adversely affect our sales volumes and selling prices. in order to balance the production needs of crop nutrient producers with farmers seasonal use of crop nutrients, crop nutrient distribution channels need to have the capacity to build significant inventories. the build-up of inventories in the distribution channels can become excessive, particularly during the cyclical periods of low demand that have been typical in the crop nutrient industry. when there are excessive inventories in the distribution channel, our sales volumes and selling prices can be adversely impacted, even during periods in which farmers use of crop nutrients may remain strong. changes in transportation costs can affect our sales volumes and selling prices. the cost of delivery is a significant factor in the total cost to customers and farmers of crop nutrients. as a result, changes in transportation costs or in customer expectations about them can affect our sales volumes and prices. customer expectations about future events can have a significant effect on the demand for our products. these expectations can significantly affect our sales volumes and selling prices. customer expectations about future events has had and is expected to continue to have an effect on the demand and prices for crop nutrients. future events that may be affected by customer expectations include, among others: customer expectations about future crop nutrient prices and availability. customer expectations about selling prices and availability of crop nutrients has had and is expected to continue to have an effect on the demand for crop nutrients. when customers anticipate increasing crop nutrient selling prices, customers tend to accumulate inventories before the anticipated price increases. this can result in a lag in our realization of rising market prices for our products. conversely, customers tend to delay their purchases when they anticipate future selling prices for crop nutrients will stabilize or decrease, adversely affecting our sales volumes and selling prices. customer expectations about availability of crop nutrients can have similar effects on sales volumes and prices. customer expectations about future farmer economics. similarly, customer expectations about future farmer economics has had and is expected to continue to have an effect on the demand for crop nutrients. when customers anticipate improving farmer economics, customers tend to accumulate crop nutrient inventories in anticipation of increasing sales volumes and selling prices. this can result in a lag in our realization of rising market prices for our products. conversely, when customers anticipate declining farmer economics, customers tend to reduce the level of their purchases of crop nutrients, adversely affecting our sales volumes and selling prices. changes in customer expectations about transportation costs. as discussed above, increasing transportation costs effectively increase customers and farmers costs for crop nutrients and can reduce the amount we realize for our sales. expectations of decreasing transportation costs can result in customers and farmers anticipating that they may be able to decrease their costs by delaying purchases. as a result, changes in customer expectations about transportation costs can affect our sales volumes and prices. 28 table of contents we conduct our operations primarily through a limited number of key production and distribution facilities. any disruption at one of these facilities could have a material adverse impact on our business. the risk of material disruption increases when demand for our products results in high operating rates at our facilities. we conduct our operations through a limited number of key production and distribution facilities. these facilities include our phosphate mines and concentrates plants; our potash mines; and the ports and other distribution facilities through which we, and the export associations and joint ventures in which we participate, conduct our respective businesses, as well as other commercial arrangements with unrelated third parties. any disruption of operations at one of these facilities has the possibility of significantly affecting our production or our ability to distribute our products. operating these facilities at high rates during periods of high demand for our products increases the risk of mechanical or structural failures, decreases the time available for routine maintenance and increases the impact on our operating results from any disruption. a disruption of operations at one of our key facilities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. examples of the types of events that could result in a disruption at one of these facilities include: adverse weather; strikes or other work stoppages; deliberate, malicious acts; political and economic instability and other risks associated with our international operations; changes in permitting, financial assurance or other environmental, health and safety laws or other changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate; legal and regulatory proceedings; our relationships with other members of export associations and joint ventures in which we participate and their or our exit from participation in such export associations or joint ventures; other changes in our commercial arrangements with unrelated third parties; brine inflows at our esterhazy, saskatchewan, mine or our other shaft mines; other accidents occurring in the course of operating activities; and other factors. insurance market conditions, our loss experience and other factors affect the insurance coverage that we carry, and we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. as a result, our insurance coverage may not adequately cover our losses. we maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance policies, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. we are subject to various self-retentions and deductibles under these insurance policies. as a result of market conditions, our loss experience and other factors, our premiums, self-retentions and deductibles for insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. in addition, significantly increased costs could lead us to decide to reduce, or possibly eliminate, coverage. as a result, a disruption of operations at one of our key facilities or a significant casualty could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition. important raw materials and energy used in our businesses in the past have been and may in the future be the subject of volatile pricing. changes in the price of our raw materials could have a material impact on our businesses. natural gas, ammonia and sulfur are key raw materials used in the manufacture of phosphate crop nutrient products. natural gas is used as both a chemical feedstock and a fuel to produce anhydrous ammonia, which is a raw material used in the production of concentrated phosphate products. natural gas is also a significant energy source used in the potash solution mining process. from time to time, our profitability has been and may in the future be impacted by the price and availability of these raw materials and other energy costs. because most of our products are commodities, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass through increased costs to our customers. a significant increase in the price of natural gas, ammonia, sulfur or energy costs that is not recovered through an increase in the price of our related crop nutrients products could have a material impact on our business. 29 table of contents during periods when the price for concentrated phosphates is falling because of falling raw material prices, we may experience a lag in realizing the benefits of the falling raw materials prices. this lag can adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. during some periods, changes in market prices for raw materials can lead to changes in the global market prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients. in particular, the global market prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients can be affected by changes in the market prices for sulfur, ammonia, phosphate rock and/or phosphoric acid raw materials. increasing market prices for these raw materials tend to put upward pressure on the selling prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, and decreasing market prices for these raw materials tend to put downward pressure on selling prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients. when the market prices for these raw materials plunge rapidly, the selling prices for our concentrated phosphate crop nutrients can fall more rapidly than we are able to consume our raw material inventory that we purchased or committed to purchase in the past at higher prices. as a result, our costs may not fall as rapidly as the selling prices of our products. until we are able to consume the higher priced raw materials, our gross margins and profitability can be adversely affected. during periods when the prices for our products are falling because of falling raw material prices, we could be required to write-down the value of our inventories. any such write-down would adversely affect our results of operations and the level of our assets. we carry our inventories at the lower of cost or market. in periods when the market prices for our products are falling rapidly in response to falling market prices for raw materials, it is possible that we could be required to write-down the value of our inventories if market prices fall below our costs. any such write-down would adversely affect our results of operations and the level of our assets. any such effect could be material. our estimates of future selling prices reflect in part the purchase commitments we have from our customers. as a result, defaults on these existing purchase commitments because of the global or local economic and financial conditions or for other reasons could adversely affect our estimates of future selling prices and require additional inventory write-downs. in the event of a disruption to existing terminaling facilities or transportation for our products or raw materials, alternative terminaling facilities or transportation might not be available on a timely basis or have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our customers or facilities. in the event of a disruption of existing terminaling facilities or transportation for our products or raw materials, alternative terminaling facilities or transportation might not be available on a timely basis or have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our customers or facilities. terminaling facilities and transportation include the ports and other distribution facilities through which we, and the export associations and joint ventures in which we participate, conduct our respective businesses; transportation and related equipment arrangements; and other commercial arrangements with unrelated third parties. examples of the types of events that could result in a disruption of terminaling facilities or transportation include: adverse weather; strikes or other work stoppages; deliberate, malicious acts; political and economic instability and other risks associated with our international operations; changes in permitting, financial assurance or other environmental, health and safety laws or other changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate; legal and regulatory proceedings; our relationships with other members of export associations and joint ventures in which we participate and their or our exit from participation in such export associations and joint ventures; other changes in our commercial arrangements with unrelated third parties; accidents occurring in the course of operating activities; lack of truck, rail, barge or ship transportation; and other factors. we discuss a number of these examples in more detail throughout this risk factors section. 30 table of contents we are subject to risks associated with our international sales and operations, which could negatively affect our sales to customers in foreign countries as well as our operations and assets in foreign countries. some of these factors may also make it less attractive to distribute cash generated by our operations outside the united states to our stockholders, or to utilize cash generated by our operations in one country to fund our operations or repayments of indebtedness in another country or to support other corporate purposes. for the stub period, we derived approximately 61% of our net sales from customers located outside of the united states. as a result, we are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: difficulties and costs associated with complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory environments; increased government ownership and regulation of the economy in the countries we serve; political and economic instability, including the possibility for civil unrest, inflation and adverse economic conditions resulting from governmental attempts to reduce inflation, such as imposition of higher interest rates and wage and price controls; nationalization of properties by foreign governments; the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls, trade barriers or other restrictions; and currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies, particularly the brazilian real and the canadian dollar. the occurrence of any of the above in the countries in which we operate or elsewhere could jeopardize or limit our ability to transact business there and could adversely affect our revenues and operating results and the value of our assets located outside of the united states. in addition, tax regulations, currency exchange controls and other restrictions may also make it economically unattractive to: distribute cash generated by our operations outside the united states to our stockholders; or utilize cash generated by our operations in one country to fund our operations or repayments of indebtedness in another country or to support other corporate purposes. our international assets are located in countries with volatile conditions, which could subject us and our assets to significant risks. we are a global business with substantial assets located outside of the united states and canada. our operations in brazil, china and india are a fundamental part of our business. we also have a joint venture investment in the miski mayo mine in peru that supplies phosphate rock to us, and recently entered into the northern promise joint venture to develop a mine and chemical complexes that we presently expect would produce phosphate fertilizers, animal feed, feed grade purified phosphoric acid and sodium tripolyphosphate in the kingdom of saudi arabia. volatile economic, political and market conditions in these and other emerging market countries may have a negative impact on our operations, operating results and financial condition. 31 table of contents natural resource extraction is an important part of the economy in peru, and, in the past, there have been protests against other natural resource operations in peru. as of the date of this report, there remain numerous social conflicts that exist within the natural resource sector in peru and as a result there is potential for active protests against natural resource companies. if the government of peru proactive efforts to address the social and environmental issues surrounding natural resource activities were not successful, protests could extend to or impact the miski mayo mine and adversely affect our investment in the miski mayo joint venture or the supply of phosphate rock to us from the mine. adverse weather conditions, including the impact of potential hurricanes, excess rainfall or drought, have in the past, and may in the future, adversely affect our operations, particularly our phosphates business, and result in increased costs, decreased production and potential liabilities. adverse weather conditions, including the impact of potential hurricanes and excess rainfall, have in the past and may in the future adversely affect our operations, particularly our phosphates business. in the past, hurricanes have resulted in minor physical damage to our facilities in florida and louisiana. in addition, a release of phosphoric acid process wastewater at our riverview, florida facility during a hurricane resulted in a small civil fine, settlement for an immaterial amount of claims for natural resource damages by governmental agencies and an ongoing private class action lawsuit. more significantly, water treatment costs, particularly at our florida operations, due to high water balances tend to increase significantly following excess rainfall from hurricanes and other adverse weather. some of our florida facilities have high water levels that may, from time to time, require treatment. the high water balances at phosphate facilities in florida also led the florida department of environmental protection to adopt new rules requiring phosphate production facilities to meet more stringent process water management objectives for phosphogypsum management systems. if additional excess rainfall or hurricanes continue to occur in coming years, our facilities may be required to take additional measures to manage process water to comply with existing or future requirements and these measures could potentially have a material effect on our business and financial condition. adverse weather may also cause a loss of production due to disruptions in our supply chain. for example, oil refineries that supply sulfur to us can be closed as a result of a hurricane and incoming shipments of ammonia can be delayed, disrupting production at our florida or louisiana facilities. conversely, drought can also adversely affect us. for example, drought can reduce farmers crop yields and the uptake of phosphates and potash, reducing the need for application of additional phosphates and potash for the next planting season. drought can also lower river levels, adversely affecting delivery of our products to our customers. our operations are dependent on having the required permits and approvals from governmental authorities. denial or delay by a government agency in issuing any of our permits and approvals or imposition of restrictive conditions on us with respect to these permits and approvals may impair our business and operations. we hold numerous governmental environmental, mining and other permits and approvals authorizing operations at each of our facilities. a decision by a government agency to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations at the affected facility. expansion of our operations also is predicated upon securing the necessary environmental or other permits or approvals. over the next several years, we and our subsidiaries will be continuing our efforts to obtain permits in support of our anticipated florida mining operations at certain of our properties. 32 table of contents a denial of, or delay in issuing, these permits, the issuance of permits with cost-prohibitive conditions, legal actions that prevent us from relying on permits or revocation of permits, could prevent us from mining at these properties and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for example: in florida, local community participation has become an important factor in the permitting process for mining companies, and various local counties and other parties in florida have in the past and continue to file lawsuits challenging the issuance of some of the permits we require. in fiscal 2009, in connection with our efforts to permit an extension of our four corners, florida, phosphate rock mine, non-governmental organizations for the first time filed a lawsuit in federal court against the u.s. army corps of engineers (the corps ) with respect to its actions in issuing a federal wetlands permit. the federal wetlands permit issued by the corps remained in effect. mining on the extension commenced and approximately 600 acres were mined and/or disturbed. in september 2013, this lawsuit was dismissed by the united states district court for the middle district of florida, jacksonville division. delays in receiving a federal wetlands permit impacted the scheduled progression of mining activities for the extension of our south fort meade, florida, phosphate rock mine into hardee county. as a result, we began to idle a portion of our mining equipment at the mine in the latter part of fiscal 2010. in june 2010, the corps issued the federal wetlands permit. subsequently, certain non-governmental organizations filed another lawsuit in the united states district court for the middle district of florida, jacksonville division, contesting the issuance of this federal wetlands permit, alleging that the corps actions in issuing the permit violated several federal laws relating to the protection of the environment. preliminary injunctions entered into in connection with this lawsuit resulted in shutdowns or reduced production at our south fort meade mine until april 2012. following a settlement of the lawsuit in february 2012 and court approval, we were able to resume normal production at our south fort meade mine. the periods of shutdown and reduced phosphate rock production at our south fort meade mine resulted in costs to suspend operations and idle plant costs. lower phosphate rock mining production levels also adversely affected gross margin. in fiscal 2011, we were notified by the corps that it planned to conduct an area-wide environmental impact statement ( aeis ) for the central florida phosphate district. on june 1, 2012 the corps published notice of availability of the draft aeis in the federal register and announced that it would accept public comment on the draft aeis through july 31, 2012. we, along with other members of the public, submitted comments for the corps to consider as it completed the final aeis. the corps issued the final aeis on april 25, 2013. the final aeis includes information on environmental impacts upon which the corps will rely in its consideration of our pending federal wetlands permits for our future mining of our wingate, ona and desoto phosphate rock reserves. we have included additional discussion about permitting for our phosphate mines in florida under environmental, health and safety matters permitting in our management analysis and in note 20 of our consolidated financial statements. we are subject to financial assurance requirements as part of our routine business operations. these financial assurance requirements affect our costs and increase our liquidity requirements. if we were unable to satisfy applicable financial assurance requirements, we might not be able to obtain or maintain permits we need to operate our business as we have in the past. our need to comply with these requirements could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. in many cases, as a condition to procuring or maintaining permits and approvals or otherwise, we are required to comply with financial assurance regulatory requirements. the purpose of these requirements is to provide 33 table of contents comfort to the government that sufficient funds will be available for the ultimate closure, post-closure care and/or reclamation of our facilities. in most cases, these financial assurance requirements have historically been satisfied without the need for any expenditure of corporate funds to the extent our financial statements meet certain balance sheet and income statement financial strength tests. in the event that we are unable to satisfy these financial strength tests, we must utilize alternative methods of complying with the financial assurance requirements or could be subject to enforcement proceedings brought by relevant government agencies. potential alternative methods of compliance include negotiating a consent decree that imposes alternative financial assurance or other conditions or, alternatively, providing credit support in the form of cash escrows or trusts, surety bonds from insurance companies, letters of credit from banks, or other forms of financial instruments or collateral to satisfy the financial assurance requirements. use of these alternative means of financial assurance imposes additional expense on us. some of them, such as letters of credit, also use a portion of our available liquidity. other alternative means of financial assurance, such as surety bonds, may in some cases require collateral and generally require us to obtain a discharge of the bonds or to post additional collateral (typically in the form of cash or letters of credit) at the request of the issuer of the bonds. collateral that is required may be in many forms including letters of credit or other financial instruments that utilize a portion of our available liquidity, or in the form of assets such as real estate, which reduces our flexibility to manage or sell assets. in the past, we have also not always been able to satisfy applicable financial strength tests, and in the future, it is possible that we will not be able to pass the applicable financial strength tests, negotiate consent decrees, establish escrow or trust accounts or obtain letters of credit, surety bonds or other financial instruments on acceptable terms and conditions or at a reasonable cost, or that the form and/or cost of compliance could increase, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. as more fully discussed in note 20 of our consolidated financial statements, the u.s. environmental protection agency is engaged in an ongoing review of mineral processing industries, including us and other phosphoric acid producers, under the u.s. resource conservation and recovery act. we are negotiating with the government the terms of a possible settlement of certain matters related to this review. the final terms of this possible settlement are not yet agreed or approved; however, if a settlement can be achieved, in all likelihood our multi-faceted commitments would include as one of its key elements our deposit into a trust fund of an amount currently estimated at $625 million to pre-fund a material portion of our existing asset retirement obligations for closure and post-closure care of our phosphogypsum management systems. we have included additional discussion about financial assurance requirements under off balance sheet arrangements and obligations other commercial commitments in our management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the other environmental regulations to which we are subject may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition to permitting and financial assurance requirements, we are subject to numerous other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the u.s., canada, china, brazil and other countries where we operate. these laws and regulations govern a wide range of matters, including environmental controls, land reclamation, discharges to air and water and remediation of hazardous substance releases. they significantly affect our operating activities as well as the level of our operating costs and capital expenditures. in some international jurisdictions, environmental laws change frequently and it may be difficult for us to determine if we are in compliance with all material environmental laws at any given time. we are, and may in the future be, involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that could be material to us. these proceedings include legacy matters arising from activities of our predecessor companies and from facilities and businesses that we have never owned or operated. we have in the past been, are currently and may in the future be subject to legal and regulatory proceedings that could be material to our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. joint ventures in which 34 table of contents we participate could also become subject to these sorts of proceedings. these proceedings may be brought by the government or private parties and may arise out of a variety of matters, including: allegations by the government or private parties that we have violated the permitting, financial assurance or other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations discussed above. for example, in connection with possible settlement of matters relating to the u.s. environmental protection agency ongoing review of mineral processing industries under the u.s. resource conservation and recovery act, we anticipate that any settlement would include, in general and among other elements, in addition to the trust fund discussed above, our commitment to capital expenditures likely to exceed $150 million in the aggregate over a period of several years and civil penalties. we are also involved in other proceedings alleging that, or to review whether, we have violated environmental laws in the united states and brazil. other environmental, health and safety matters, including alleged personal injury, wrongful death, complaints that our operations are adversely impacting nearby farms and other business operations, other property damage, subsidence from mining operations, natural resource damages and other damage to the environment, arising out of operations, including accidents. for example, several actions were initiated by the government and private parties related to releases of phosphoric acid process wastewater at our riverview, florida facility during the hurricanes in 2004. antitrust, commercial, tax (including tax audits) and other disputes. for example, we were one of a number of defendants in multiple class-action lawsuits, in which the plaintiffs sought unspecified amounts of damages including treble damages, alleging that we and other defendants conspired to, among other matters, fix the price at which potash was sold in the united states, allocated market shares and customers and fraudulently concealed their anticompetitive conduct. in january 2013, we settled these class action antitrust lawsuits for an aggregate of $43.8 million. the legal and regulatory proceedings to which we are currently or may in the future be subject can, depending on the circumstances, result in monetary damage awards, fines, penalties, other liabilities, injunctions or other court or administrative rulings that interrupt, impede or otherwise materially affect our business operations, and/or criminal sanctions. among other environmental laws, the u.s. comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act ( cercla ) imposes liability, including for cleanup costs, without regard to fault or to the legality of a party conduct, on certain categories of persons, including current and former owners and operators of a site and parties who are considered to have contributed to the release of hazardous substances into the environment. under cercla, or various u.s. state analogs, one party may, under certain circumstances, be required to bear more than its proportional share of cleanup costs at a site where it has liability if payments cannot be obtained from other responsible parties. as a crop nutrient company working with chemicals and other hazardous substances, we will periodically incur liabilities and cleanup costs, under cercla and other environmental laws, with regard to our current or former facilities, adjacent or nearby third-party facilities or offsite disposal locations. pending and potential legal and regulatory proceedings may arise out of our present activities, including operations at current facilities. they may also arise out of past activities by us, our predecessor companies and subsidiaries that our predecessors have sold. these past activities were in some cases at facilities that we and our subsidiaries no longer own or operate and may have never owned or operated. settlements of legal and regulatory matters frequently require court approval. in the event a court were not to approve of a settlement, it is possible that we and the other party or parties to the matter might not be able to settle it on terms that were acceptable to all parties or that we could be required to accept more stringent terms of settlement than required by the opposing parties. 35 table of contents we have included additional information with respect to pending legal and regulatory proceedings in note 20 of our consolidated financial statements and in this report in part i, item 3, legal proceedings . these legal and regulatory proceedings involve inherent uncertainties and could negatively impact our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. the permitting, financial assurance and other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations to which we are subject may become more stringent over time. this could increase the effects on us of these laws and regulations, and the increased effects could be material. continued government and public emphasis on environmental, health and safety issues in the u.s., canada, china, brazil and other countries where we operate can be expected to result in requirements that apply to us and our operations that are more stringent than those that are described above and elsewhere in this report. these more stringent requirements may include among other matters increased levels of future investments and expenditures for environmental controls at ongoing operations which will be charged against income from future operations, increased levels of the financial assurance requirements to which we are subject, increased efforts or costs to obtain permits or denial of permits, other new or interpretations of existing statutes or regulations that impose new or more stringent restrictions or liabilities, including liabilities under cercla or similar statutes, including restrictions or liabilities related to elevated levels of naturally-occurring radiation that arise from disturbing the ground in the course of mining activities, and other matters that could increase our expenses, capital requirements or liabilities or adversely affect our business, liquidity or financial condition. in addition, to the extent restrictions imposed in countries where our competitors operate, such as china, india, former soviet union countries or morocco, are less stringent than in the countries where we operate, our competitors could gain cost or other competitive advantages over us. these effects could be material. among other matters, there are several ongoing initiatives relating to nutrient discharges. new regulatory restrictions from these initiatives could have a material effect on either us or our customers. for example: on december 6, 2010, the epa adopted numeric water quality standards for the discharge of nitrogen and/or phosphorus into florida lakes and streams (the nnc rule ). the nnc rule set criteria for such discharges that would require drastic reductions in the levels of nutrients allowed in florida lakes and streams, and would have required us and others to significantly limit discharges of these nutrients in florida by march, 2012. subsequently, in a lawsuit that we and others brought, a federal court invalidated the nnc rule in part, upheld it in part, remanded the invalid parts of the rule to the epa for reconsideration and reproposal and postponed the effective date of the parts of the rule that the court upheld. the part of the epa nnc rule that applies to lakes and springs is now in effect, and we are reviewing its potential effect on us. other portions of the proposed nnc rule remain pending. the florida department of environmental protection ( fdep ) has adopted, and epa has approved, state nutrient criteria rules that would supplant the federal nnc rule. a recent court ruling paves the way for the epa to withdraw the federal nnc rule for lakes and springs, and to withdraw the proposed federal nnc rule for streams and flowing waters, allowing the fdep criteria to become effective. subject to further rulemaking and litigation developments, we expect that compliance with the requirements of nutrient criteria rules could adversely affect our florida phosphate operations, require significant capital expenditures and substantially increase our annual operating expenses. the gulf coast ecosystem restoration task force, established by executive order of the president and comprised of five gulf states and eleven federal agencies, has delivered a final strategy for long-term ecosystem restoration for the gulf coast. the strategy calls for, among other matters, reduction of the flow of excess nutrients into the gulf through state nutrient reduction frameworks, new nutrient reduction approaches and reduction of agricultural and urban sources of excess nutrients. implementation of the strategy will require legislative or regulatory action at the state level. we cannot predict what the requirements of any such legislative or regulatory action could be or whether or how it would affect us or our customers. 36 table of contents in march 2012, several nongovernmental organizations brought a lawsuit in federal court against the epa, seeking to require it to establish numeric nutrient criteria for nitrogen and phosphorous in the mississippi river basin and the gulf of mexico. the epa had previously denied a 2008 petition seeking such standards. on may 30, 2012, the court granted our motion to intervene in this lawsuit. on september 20, 2013 the court ruled that the epa had to respond directly to the environmental organizations petition as to whether numeric nutrient criteria for the mississippi river basin and gulf of mexico are necessary under the clean water act, but that the epa had the discretion to rely on administrative, policy and other non-technical factors in responding to the petition. the epa is considering appealing the district court decision. in the event that the epa were to adopt numeric nutrient criteria for the mississippi river basin and the gulf of mexico, we cannot predict what these requirements would be or the effects they would have on us or our customers. regulatory restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions in the united states, canada or elsewhere could adversely affect us, and these effects could be material. various governmental initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions are under way or under consideration around the world. these initiatives could restrict our operating activities, require us to make changes in our operating activities that would increase our operating costs, reduce our efficiency or limit our output, require us to make capital improvements to our facilities, increase our energy, raw material and transportation costs or limit their availability, or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, and these effects could be material to us. governmental greenhouse gas emission initiatives include among others: initiatives in the united states: various legislative or regulatory initiatives relating to greenhouse gases have been adopted or considered by the u.s. congress, the epa or various states. it is possible that future legislation or regulation addressing climate change could adversely affect our operating activities, energy, raw material and transportation costs, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, and these effects could be material. initiatives in canada: canada remains committed to addressing climate change. under the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc), canada signed the copenhagen accord in december 2009 and committed to reduce its greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions to 17% below 2005 levels by 2020. the government is pursuing a sector-by-sector regulatory approach aligned with the united states, where appropriate. our saskatchewan potash facilities continue to work with the canadian fertilizer institute and environment canada on a sector based approach. in may 2009, the province of saskatchewan, in which our canadian potash mines are located, began to consider legislation intended to lead to the development and administration of climate change regulation in saskatchewan by the province rather than the federal government. key elements under consideration by the province include a primary focus on achieving a 20% reduction by 2020. under the proposed framework, compliance mechanisms such as the technology fund, recognition for early action, pre-certified investments, emission intensive trade exposed credits and carbon offsets would be established to provide flexibility for regulated emitters to meet their greenhouse gas reduction obligations. international initiatives. although international negotiations concerning greenhouse gas emission reductions and other responses to climate change are underway, final obligations in the post-kyoto protocol period after 2012 remain undefined. any new international agreements addressing climate change could adversely affect our operating activities, energy, raw material and transportation costs, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, and these effects could be material. in addition, to the extent climate change restrictions imposed in countries where our competitors operate, such as china, india, former soviet union countries or morocco, are less stringent than in the united states or canada, our competitors could gain cost or other competitive advantages over us. 37 table of contents future climate change could adversely affect us. the prospective impact of potential climate change on our operations and those of our customers and farmers remains uncertain. some scientists have hypothesized that the impacts of climate change could include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperature levels and that these changes could be severe. these impacts could vary by geographic location. at the present time, we cannot predict the prospective impact of potential climate change on our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, or whether any such effects could be material to us. some of our competitors and potential competitors have greater resources than we do which may place us at a competitive disadvantage and adversely affect our sales and profitability. these competitors include state-owned and government-subsidized entities in other countries. we compete with a number of producers in north america and throughout the world, including state-owned and government-subsidized entities. some of these entities may have greater total resources than we do, and may be less dependent on earnings from crop nutrients sales than we are. in addition, some of these entities may have access to lower cost or government-subsidized natural gas supplies, placing us at a competitive disadvantage. furthermore, governments as owners of some of our competitors may be willing to accept lower prices and profitability on their products in order to support domestic employment or other political or social goals. to the extent other producers of crop nutrients enjoy competitive advantages or are willing to accept lower profit levels, the price of our products, our sales volumes and our profits may be adversely affected. we have substantial cash balances that we invest in what we believe to be relatively short-term, highly liquid and high credit quality investments. we intend the investment risks, including counterparty default and lack of liquidity, on these types of investments to be relatively low, but market rates of return on these types of investments are also generally relatively low. in addition, our efforts to manage the investment risks could be unsuccessful. this could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. our significant cash flows from operations have resulted in cash and cash-equivalents of approximately $5.3 billion as of december 31, 2013. our cash and cash-equivalents should continue to increase when we generate cash from operations, except to the extent we reinvest in our business or make distributions to our stockholders. we generally invest these cash and cash-equivalents in what we believe to be relatively short-term, highly liquid and high credit quality instruments. because of these characteristics of our cash and cash-equivalents, the market rates of return on them are lower than our expectations for the return on capital invested in our business operations. moreover, our efforts to manage investment risk by focusing our investing on short-term, highly liquid and high credit quality investments could prove unsuccessful. the likelihood that our efforts to manage investment risk might prove unsuccessful is heightened during times when there is significant turmoil in the financial markets. as a result, counterparties could default on their obligations to us, or the liquidity of financial instruments that we hold could become impaired. any such event could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. until november 26, 2013, the agreements relating to the cargill transaction restricted our ability to repurchase shares of our stock. since december 31, 2013, we have repurchased approximately 27.2 million class a shares, and we have agreed to repurchase an additional aggregate 24.3 million class a shares. we have also recently announced a share repurchase program of up to $1 billion, in line with our capital management policy. these share repurchases have, and are expected to continue to, reduce our cash balances and liquidity. the agreements relating to the cargill transaction prevented us from repurchasing our shares in a negotiated transaction or through open market repurchases until november 26, 2013. on december 6, 2013, we entered into the mac trusts share repurchase agreement to purchase all of our class a shares held by the mac 38 table of contents trusts through a series of eight purchases during the period january 8, 2014 through july 30, 2014. as of the date of this report, we have repurchased 24,739,436 of such shares for an aggregate of $1.1 billion, and an additional 18,554,579 class a shares remain to be repurchased. in addition to the class a shares repurchased or to be repurchased by mosaic under the mac trusts share repurchase agreement, the mac trusts own an aggregate of 21,647,007 shares of common stock that were converted from outstanding class a shares series a-1, on november 26, 2013. under the mac trusts share repurchase agreement, through january 1, 2015, the mac trusts have granted mosaic certain rights of first offer with respect to proposed sales in a market transaction or block trade, through or with a broker or dealer, of more than 5,000,000 of these shares of common stock, and certain rights of first refusal with respect to other proposed sales by the mac trusts of more than 5,000,000 of these shares of common stock. on february 11, 2014, we also announced that our board of directors has authorized a share repurchase program of up to $1 billion, allowing us to repurchase class a shares or shares of common stock, through direct buybacks or in open market transactions, in line with our capital management policy. on february 14, 2014, we announced that we had entered into the family trusts share repurchase agreements pursuant to which we had purchased 2.4 million class a shares for approximately $112 million and had agreed to repurchase an additional 5.8 million class a shares as of march 17, 2014 as part of the repurchase program. under our capital management policy, we have also indicated our willingness to use our available debt capacity, as well as our surplus cash, to fund share repurchases, financial assurance requirements arising in our business and strategic investments. our use of our surplus cash and/or available debt capacity for these purposes has reduced our available cash and liquidity since december 31, 2013. to the extent we use our surplus cash and/or available debt capacity for these purposes in the future, our available cash and liquidity could be further reduced. our purchase price per class a share for our future purchases under the share repurchase agreements is determined by reference to the market price of our common stock for the twenty trading days preceding each repurchase. to the extent the market price of our common stock increases during this period, the price per class a share under the share repurchase agreements will increase. our purchase price per class a share for future purchases under the share repurchase agreements is determined by the common market price, as defined in mosaic restated certificate of incorporation, which, in turn, is determined by reference to the market price of our common stock for the twenty trading days prior to each repurchase. to the extent the market price of our common stock increases during the twenty trading day period prior to any repurchase, the price per class a share under the share repurchase agreements will increase. if the market price of our common stock increases beyond our expectations, our purchase price could increase beyond our expectations and adversely affect the benefits we anticipate from our repurchases of class a shares under the share repurchase agreements and our liquidity. we do not own a controlling equity interest in our non-consolidated companies, some of which are foreign companies, and therefore our operating results and cash flow may be materially affected by how the governing boards and majority owners operate such businesses. there may also be limitations on monetary distributions from these companies that are outside of our control. together, these factors may lower our equity earnings or cash flow from such businesses and negatively impact our results of operations. we recently entered into the northern promise joint venture to develop a mine and chemical complexes for an estimated $7 billion that would produce phosphate fertilizers, animal feed, feed grade purified phosphoric acid and sodium tripolyphosphate in the kingdom of saudi arabia. we have a 25% interest in the joint venture and expect our cash investment will be up to $1 billion, funded over a four-year period. the success of this joint venture will depend on, among other matters, the ability of the northern promise joint venture to obtain project financing in acceptable amounts and upon acceptable terms, the future success of current plans for the northern promise joint venture and any future changes in those plans. 39 table of contents we also hold minority ownership interests in a joint venture that owns and operates a phosphate rock mine and in other companies that are not controlled by us. we expect that the operations and results of the northern promise joint venture will be, and the operations or results of some of the other joint ventures or companies are, significant to us, and their operations can affect our earnings. because we do not control these companies either at the board or stockholder levels and because local laws in foreign jurisdictions and contractual obligations may place restrictions on monetary distributions by these companies, we cannot ensure that these companies will operate efficiently, pay dividends, or generally follow the desires of our management by virtue of our board or stockholder representation. as a result, these companies may contribute less than anticipated to our earnings and cash flow, negatively impacting our results of operations and liquidity. strikes or other forms of work stoppage or slowdown could disrupt our business and lead to increased costs. our financial performance is dependent on a reliable and productive work force. a significant portion of our workforce, and that of the joint ventures in which we participate, is covered by collective bargaining agreements with unions. unsuccessful contract negotiations or adverse labor relations could result in strikes or slowdowns. any disruptions may decrease our production and sales or impose additional costs to resolve disputes. the risk of adverse labor relations may increase as our profitability increases because labor unions expectations and demands generally rise at those times. our esterhazy mine has had an inflow of salt saturated brine for more than 25 years. since december 1985, we have had inflows of salt saturated brine into our esterhazy, saskatchewan mine. over the past century, several potash mines experiencing water inflow problems have flooded. in order to control brine inflows at esterhazy, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, expenditures, certain of which, due to their nature, have been capitalized, while others have been charged to expense. at various times, we experience changing amounts and patterns of brine inflows at the esterhazy mine. periodically, some of these inflows have exceeded available pumping capacity. if that were to continue for several months without abatement, it could exceed our available storage capacity and ability to effectively manage the brine inflow. this could adversely affect production at the esterhazy mine. see key factors that can affect results of operations and financial condition and potash net sales and gross margin in our management analysis for a discussion of costs and other information relating to the brine inflows. the brine inflow is variable, resulting in both net inflows (the rate of inflow is more than the amount we are pumping out of the mine) and net outflows (when we are pumping more brine out of the mine than the rate of inflow). there can be no assurance that: our pumping, surface storage, underground storage or injection well capacities for brine will continue to be sufficient, or that the pumping, grouting and other measures that we use to manage the inflows at the esterhazy mine will continue to be effective; there will not be a disruption in the supply of calcium chloride, which is a primary material used to reduce or prevent the flow of incoming brine; our estimates of the volumes of net inflows or net outflows of brine, or storage capacity for brine at the esterhazy mine, are accurate; the volumes of the brine inflows will not fluctuate from time to time, the rate of the brine inflows will not be greater than our prior experience or current assumptions, changes in inflow patterns will not adversely affect our ability to locate and manage the inflows, or that any such fluctuations, increases or changes would not be material; and the expenditures to control the inflows will be consistent with our prior experience or future estimates. 40 table of contents from time to time, new or improved technology becomes available to facilitate our remediation of the inflows, such as horizontal drilling techniques. taking advantage of these new or improved technologies may require significant capital expenditures and/or may increase our costs of remediation. it is possible that the costs of remedial efforts at esterhazy may further increase beyond our current estimates in the future and that such an increase could be material, or, in the extreme scenario, that the water inflows, risk to employees or remediation costs may increase to a level which would cause us to change our mining processes or abandon the mine, which in turn could significantly negatively impact our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources. due to the ongoing brine inflow at esterhazy, underground operations at this facility are currently not insurable for water incursion problems. our mines at colonsay, saskatchewan, and carlsbad, new mexico, are also subject to the risks of inflow of water as a result of our shaft mining operations. other accidents occurring in the course of our operating activities could result in significant liabilities, interruptions or shutdowns of facilities or the need for significant safety or other expenditures. we engage in mining and industrial activities that can result in serious accidents. mining, in particular, can be a dangerous activity. if our safety procedures are not effective, or if an accident occurs, we could be subject to liabilities arising out of personal injuries or death, our operations could be interrupted and we might have to shut down or abandon affected facilities. accidents could cause us to expend significant amounts to remediate safety issues or to repair damaged facilities. for example: some of our mines are subject to potential damage from earthquakes. the excavation of mines can result in potential seismic events or can increase the likelihood or potential severity of a seismic event. the rise and fall of water levels, such as those arising from the brine inflows and our remediation activities at our esterhazy mine, can also result in or increase the likelihood or potential severity of a seismic event. our esterhazy mine has experienced minor seismic events from time to time. a significant seismic event at one of our mines could result in damage to or flooding of the mine or, in the extreme scenario, cause us to change our mining process or abandon the mine. our underground potash shaft mines are subject to risk from fire. in the event of a fire, if our emergency procedures are not successful, we could have significant injuries or deaths. in addition, fire at one of our underground shaft mines could halt our operations at the affected mine while we investigate the origin of the fire or for longer periods for remedial work or otherwise. our underground potash shaft mines at esterhazy and colonsay, saskatchewan and carlsbad, new mexico are subject to risk from fire. any failure of our safety procedures in the future could result in serious injuries or death, or shutdowns, which could result in significant liabilities and/or impact on the financial performance of our potash business, including a possible material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we handle significant quantities of ammonia at several of our facilities. if our safety procedures are not effective, an accident involving our ammonia operations could result in serious injuries or death, or result in the shutdown of our facilities. we produce ammonia at our faustina, louisiana phosphate concentrates plant, use ammonia in significant quantities at all of our florida and louisiana phosphates concentrates plants and store ammonia at some of our distribution facilities. for our florida phosphates concentrates plants, ammonia is received at terminals in tampa and transported by pipelines to our facilities. our ammonia is generally stored and transported at high pressures. an accident could occur that could result in serious injuries or death, or the evacuation of areas near an accident. an accident could also result in property 41 table of contents damage or the shutdown of our florida or louisiana phosphates concentrates plants, the ammonia terminals or pipelines serving those plants or our other ammonia storage and handling facilities. as a result, an accident involving ammonia could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we also use or produce other hazardous or volatile chemicals at some of our facilities. if our safety procedures are not effective, an accident involving these other hazardous or volatile chemicals could result in serious injuries or death, or result in the shutdown of our facilities. we use sulfuric acid in the production of concentrated phosphates in our florida and louisiana operations. some of our florida and louisiana facilities produce fluorosilicic acid, which is a hazardous chemical, for resale to third parties. we also use or produce other hazardous or volatile chemicals at some of our facilities. an accident involving any of these chemicals could result in serious injuries or death, or evacuation of areas near an accident. an accident could also result in property damage or shutdown of our facilities, or cause us to expend significant amounts to remediate safety issues or to repair damaged facilities. as a result, an accident involving any of these chemicals could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. deliberate, malicious acts, including terrorism, could damage our facilities, disrupt our operations or injure employees, contractors, customers or the public and result in liability to us. intentional acts of destruction could hinder our sales or production and disrupt our supply chain. our facilities could be damaged or destroyed, reducing our operational production capacity and requiring us to repair or replace our facilities at substantial cost. employees, contractors and the public could suffer substantial physical injury for which we could be liable. governmental authorities may impose security or other requirements that could make our operations more difficult or costly. the consequences of any such actions could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by changing antitrust laws to which we are subject. increases in crop nutrient prices can increase the scrutiny to which we are subject under these laws. we are subject to antitrust and competition laws in various countries throughout the world. we cannot predict how these laws or their interpretation, administration and enforcement will change over time. changes in antitrust laws globally, or in their interpretation, administration or enforcement, may limit our existing or future operations and growth, or the operations of canpotex and phoschem, which serve as export associations for our potash and phosphates businesses, respectively. increases in crop nutrient prices have in the past resulted in increased scrutiny of the crop nutrient industry under antitrust and competition laws and can increase the risk that these laws could be interpreted, administered or enforced in a manner that could affect our operating practices or impose liability on us in a manner that could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by other changes in laws resulting from increases in food and crop nutrient prices. increases in prices for, among other things, food, fuel and crop inputs (including crop nutrients) have in the past been the subject of significant discussion by various governmental bodies and officials throughout the world. in response to increases, it is possible that governments in one of more of the locations in which we operate or where we or our competitors sell our products could take actions that could affect us. such actions could include, among other matters, changes in governmental policies relating to agriculture and biofuels (including changes in subsidy levels), price controls, tariffs, windfall profits taxes or export or import taxes. any such actions could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 42 table of contents our competitive position could be adversely affected if we are unable to participate in continuing industry consolidation. most of our products are readily available from a number of competitors, and price and other competition in the crop nutrient industry is intense. in addition, crop nutrient production facilities and distribution activities frequently benefit from economies of scale. as a result, particularly during pronounced cyclical troughs, the crop nutrient industry has a long history of consolidation. mosaic itself is the result of a number of industry consolidations. we expect consolidation among crop nutrient producers could continue. our competitive position could suffer to the extent we are not able to expand our own resources either through consolidations, acquisitions, joint ventures or partnerships. in the future, we may not be able to find suitable companies to combine with, assets to purchase or joint venture or partnership opportunities to pursue. even if we are able to locate desirable opportunities, we may not be able to enter into transactions on economically acceptable terms. if we do not successfully participate in continuing industry consolidation, our ability to compete successfully could be adversely affected and result in the loss of customers or an uncompetitive cost structure, which could adversely affect our sales and profitability. our strategy for managing market risk may not be effective. our businesses are affected by fluctuations in market prices for our products, the purchase price of natural gas, ammonia and sulfur consumed in operations, freight and shipping costs and foreign currency exchange rates. we periodically enter into derivatives and forward purchase contracts to mitigate some of these risks. however, our strategy may not be successful in minimizing our exposure to these fluctuations. see market risk in our management analysis and note 14 of our consolidated financial statements that is incorporated by reference in this report in part ii, item 8. a shortage of railcars, barges and ships for carrying our products and the raw materials we use in our business could result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of production or sales, and higher transportation or equipment costs. we rely heavily upon truck, rail, barge and ocean freight transportation to obtain the raw materials we need and to deliver our products to our customers. in addition, the cost of transportation is an important part of the final sale price of our products. finding affordable and dependable transportation is important in obtaining our raw materials and to supply our customers. higher costs for these transportation services or an interruption or slowdown due to factors including high demand, high fuel prices, labor disputes, layoffs or other factors affecting the availability of qualified transportation workers, adverse weather or other environmental events, or changes to rail, barge or ocean freight systems, could negatively affect our ability to produce our products or deliver them to our customers, which could affect our performance and results of operations. strong demand for grain and other products and a strong world economy increase the demand for and reduce the availability of transportation, both domestically and internationally. shortages of railcars, barges and ocean transport for carrying product and increased transit time may result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of sales and higher equipment and transportation costs. in addition, during periods when the shipping industry has a shortage of ships the substantial time needed to build new ships prevents rapid market response. delays and missed shipments due to transportation shortages, including vessels, barges, railcars and trucks, could result in customer dissatisfaction or loss of sales potential, which could negatively affect our performance and results of operations. a lack of customers access to credit can adversely affect their ability to purchase our products. some of our customers require access to credit to purchase our products. a lack of available credit to customers in one or more countries, due to global or local economic conditions or for other reasons, could adversely affect demand for crop nutrients. 43 table of contents we extend trade credit to our customers and guarantee the financing that some of our customers use to purchase our products. our results of operations may be adversely affected if these customers are unable to repay the trade credit from us or financing from their banks. increases in prices for crop nutrient, other agricultural inputs and grain may increase this risk. we extend trade credit to our customers in the united states and throughout the world, in some cases for extended periods of time. in brazil, where there are fewer third-party financing sources available to farmers, we also have several programs under which we guarantee customers financing from financial institutions that they use to purchase our products. as our exposure to longer trade credit extended throughout the world and use of guarantees in brazil increases, we are increasingly exposed to the risk that some of our customers will not pay us or the amounts we have guaranteed. additionally, we become increasingly exposed to risk due to weather and crop growing conditions, fluctuations in commodity prices or foreign currencies, and other factors that influence the price, supply and demand for agricultural commodities. significant defaults by our customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. increases in prices for crop nutrients increase the dollar amount of our sales to customers. the larger dollar value of our customers purchases may also lead them to request longer trade credit from us and/or increase their need for us to guarantee their financing of our products. either factor could increase the amount of our exposure to the risk that our customers may be unable to repay the trade credit from us or financing from their banks that we guarantee. in addition, increases in prices for other agricultural inputs and grain may increase the working capital requirements, indebtedness and other liabilities of our customers, increase the risk that they will default on the trade credit from us or their financing that we guarantee, and decrease the likelihood that we will be able to collect from our customers in the event of their default. tax rules governing the cargill transaction limited our ability to execute certain actions for a period of time following the cargill transaction and, if our procedures for compliance with those restrictions were ineffective, notwithstanding the irs ruling and tax opinion issued to cargill in connection with the cargill transaction, we could owe significant tax-related indemnification liabilities to cargill. the irs issued a ruling to the effect that the split-off that was part of the cargill transaction would be tax-free to cargill and its stockholders, and in connection with the completion of the cargill transaction, cargill received a tax opinion relating to certain tax consequences of the cargill transaction. notwithstanding the irs ruling and tax opinion, however, the split-off and debt exchanges could be taxable to cargill and its stockholders under certain circumstances. therefore, we and cargill agreed to tax-related restrictions and indemnities set forth in a tax agreement related to the cargill transaction, under which we were restricted or deterred from taking certain actions until may 26, 2013, including (i) redeeming or purchasing our stock in excess of agreed-upon amounts; (ii) issuing any equity securities in excess of agreed upon amounts; (iii) approving or recommending a third party acquisition of us; (iv) permitting any merger or other combination of mosaic or mos holdings; and (v) entering into an agreement for the purchase of any interest in mosaic or mos holdings, subject to certain exceptions. we agreed to indemnify cargill for taxes and tax-related losses imposed on cargill as a result of the split-off and/or debt exchange failing to qualify as tax-free, if the taxes and related losses are attributable to, arise out of or result from certain prohibited acts or to any breach of, or inaccuracy in, any representation, warranty or covenant made by us in the tax agreement referred to above. the taxes and tax-related losses of cargill would be material if these transactions fail to qualify as tax-free, and, if our procedures for avoiding any of these prohibited acts or breaches were ineffective, this indemnity would result in material liabilities from us to cargill that could have a material adverse effect on us. for a further discussion of the restrictions and indemnities set forth in the agreements related to the cargill transaction, please see note 2 to our consolidated financial statements. provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. our restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of 44 table of contents directors. these provisions include the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, the classification of our board of directors into three classes, a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent and the inability of our stockholders to request that our board of directors or chairman of our board call a special meeting of stockholders. we are also subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. in general, section 203 prohibits a publicly held delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years from the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the interested stockholder attained this status with the approval of the board of directors or unless the business combination was approved in a prescribed manner. a business combination includes mergers, asset sales and other transactions resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder. subject to exceptions, an interested stockholder is a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns, or within three years owned, 15% or more of the corporation voting stock. this statute could prohibit or delay the accomplishment of mergers or other takeover or change in control attempts with respect to us and, accordingly, may discourage attempts to acquire us. these provisions apply not only when they may protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics but even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in our best interests or those of our stockholders. our success will increasingly depend on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified and motivated employees. we believe our continued success depends on the collective abilities and efforts of our employees. like many businesses, a significant number of our employees, including some of our most highly skilled employees with specialized expertise in potash and phosphates operations, will be approaching retirement age throughout the next decade and beyond. in addition, we compete for a talented workforce with other businesses, particularly within the mining and chemicals industries in general and the crop nutrients industry in particular. our expansion plans are highly dependent on our ability to attract, retain and train highly qualified and motivated employees who are essential to the success of our ongoing operations as well as to our expansion plans. if we were to be unsuccessful in attracting, retaining and training the employees we require, our ongoing operations and expansion plans could be materially and adversely affected. future technological innovation could affect our business. future technological innovation such as the development of seeds that require less crop nutrients, or developments in the application of crop nutrients, if they occur, could have the potential to adversely affect the demand for our products and our results of operations, liquidity and capital resources. the success of our strategic initiatives depends on our ability to effectively manage these initiatives. we have initiated several significant strategic initiatives, principally our plans to expand the annual production capacity of our potash business, the northern promise joint venture and the cf phosphate assets acquisition. these strategic initiatives involve capital and other expenditures of several billions of dollars over a number of years and require effective project management. to the extent the processes we (or, for the northern promise joint venture, we together with ma aden and sabic) put in place to manage these initiatives are not effective, our capital expenditure and other costs may exceed our expectations or the benefits we expect from these initiatives might not be fully realized. we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the cf phosphate assets acquisition and the cf ammonia supply agreements within the anticipated time frame or at all. the success of the proposed cf phosphate assets acquisition and the cf ammonia supply agreements will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from combining cf phosphate 45 table of contents mining and production operations with our operations in central florida, our ability to avoid or delay future capital spending as a result of the transactions and our ability to realize cost savings from natural gas based pricing under one of the long term cf ammonia supply agreements. our ability to realize these anticipated benefits and cost savings is subject to certain risks including: our ability to successfully consolidate both companies phosphate mining, manufacturing, purchasing, transportation and logistics activities in central florida and to eliminate duplicative overhead and other costs; our ability to avoid certain planned capital expenditures necessary for future mines through utilization of some of the mining infrastructure assets we would acquire from cf and to avoid the capital expenditures for our own new ammonia plant as a result of the cf ammonia supply agreements; whether the combined operations will perform as expected; whether cf successfully performs its obligations under the cf ammonia supply agreements over the life of its commitment; whether the integration of operations in central florida takes longer than anticipated or involves higher than projected integration costs; whether the integration process disrupts our on-going operations in central florida or diverts the attention of our management from our current operations; and the cooperation of federal, state and local governmental agencies on matters relating to the acquisition, including permitting, replacement of cf $200 million of escrowed financial assurance earmarked for closure and long-term care of cf phosphogypsum stacks in florida, and other regulatory enforcement matters. if we are not able to successfully combine cf operations with our operations within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the anticipated cost savings and other benefits of the proposed acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected, and the combined operations may not perform as expected. in addition, we use ammonia as a raw material in the production of our concentrated phosphate products. under one of the cf ammonia supply agreements, we have agreed to purchase 545,000 to 725,000 tonnes of ammonia per year for up to 15 years at a price to be determined by a formula based on the prevailing price of u.s. natural gas. this agreement is expected to commence prior to january 1, 2017, whether or not the acquisition closes. if the price of natural gas rises or the market price for ammonia falls outside of the range we currently anticipate, we may not fully realize the cost benefit we anticipate from the natural gas based pricing under this agreement, or the cost of our ammonia under this agreement could be a competitive disadvantage. the cf phosphate assets acquisition is subject to review under antitrust laws and requires governmental approvals which could jeopardize completion of the acquisition or impose conditions on the acquisition that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. completion of the acquisition is conditioned upon obtaining certain required governmental authorizations. although we and cf have agreed to use our commercially reasonable efforts, subject to certain limitations, to make certain governmental filings or obtain the required governmental authorizations, as the case may be, there can be no assurance that the authorizations will be obtained, and we and cf are not obligated to accept any and all conditions imposed by governmental authorities in order to obtain such authorizations. in addition, the governmental authorities with or from which these authorizations are required have broad discretion in administering the governing regulations. as a condition to authorization of the acquisition, these governmental authorities may impose requirements, limitations or costs or require divestitures or place restrictions on our 46 table of contents conduct of the business after completion of the acquisition. our acceptance of any such divestiture requests or other restrictions on operations could diminish the benefits of the acquisition and result in additional transaction costs, loss of revenue or other effects associated with restrictions on business operations. in addition, at any time before or after completion of the acquisition, the antitrust division of the u.s. department of justice or the u.s. federal trade commission, any state or certain foreign governments could take various actions under antitrust, competition or similar laws, including seeking to enjoin the completion of the acquisition or to rescind the acquisition. private parties also may seek to take legal action under antitrust, competition or similar laws under certain circumstances. a challenge to the acquisition on antitrust, competition or similar grounds may be made by any of these governmental or private parties and, if such a challenge is made, it is possible that we and cf will not prevail. our benefits from the proposed cf phosphate assets acquisition depend on the accuracy of our estimates of the liabilities and obligations we are assuming in the transaction. we are assuming various liabilities and obligations of cf as part of the cf phosphate assets acquisition. the benefits we expect from the acquisition depend on our estimates of these liabilities and obligations. to the extent we have underestimated these liabilities and obligations, we might not fully realize the benefits we are expecting from the acquisition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we have included a discussion about market risks under market risk in the management analysis that is included in this report in part ii, item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation . this information is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 22 risk factors. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the risks and uncertainties described below. our esterhazy mine has had an inflow of salt saturated brine for more than 25 years. since december 1985, we have had inflows of salt saturated brine into our esterhazy, saskatchewan mine. over the past century, several potash mines experiencing water inflow problems have flooded. in order to control brine inflows at esterhazy, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, expenditures, certain of which, due to their nature, have been capitalized, while others have been charged to expense. at various times, we experience changing amounts and patterns of brine inflows at the esterhazy mine. periodically, some of these inflows have exceeded available pumping capacity. if that were to continue for several months without abatement, it could exceed our available storage capacity and ability to effectively manage the brine inflow. this could adversely affect production at the esterhazy mine. see key factors that can affect results of operations and financial condition and potash net sales and gross margin in our management's analysis for a discussion of costs and other information relating to the brine inflows. the brine inflow is variable, resulting in both net inflows (the rate of inflow is more than the amount we are pumping out of the mine) and net outflows (when we are pumping more brine out of the mine than the rate of inflow). there can be no assurance that: our pumping, surface storage, underground storage or injection well capacities for brine will continue to be sufficient, or that the pumping, grouting and other measures that we use to manage the inflows at the esterhazy mine will continue to be effective; there will not be a disruption in the supply of calcium chloride, which is a primary material used to reduce or prevent the flow of incoming brine; our estimates of the volumes of net inflows or net outflows of brine, or storage capacity for brine at the esterhazy mine, are accurate; the volumes of the brine inflows will not fluctuate from time to time, the rate of the brine inflows will not be greater than our prior experience or current assumptions, changes in inflow patterns will not adversely affect our ability to locate and manage the inflows, or that any such fluctuations, increases or changes would not be material; and the expenditures to control the inflows will be consistent with our prior experience or future estimates. from time to time, new or improved technology becomes available to facilitate our remediation of the inflows, such as horizontal drilling techniques. taking advantage of these new or improved technologies may require significant capital expenditures and/or may increase our costs of remediation. it is possible that the costs of remedial efforts at esterhazy may further increase in the future and that such an increase could be material, or, in the extreme scenario, that the brine inflows, risk to employees or remediation costs may increase to a level which would cause us to change our mining processes or abandon the mines. see key factors that can affect results of operations and financial condition and potash net sales and gross margin in our management's analysis, which is incorporated herein by reference, for a discussion of costs, risks and other information relating to the brine inflows. due to the ongoing brine inflow at esterhazy, subject to exceptions that are limited in scope and amount, we are unable to obtain coverage for underground operations for water incursion problems. our mines at colonsay, saskatchewan, and carlsbad, new mexico, are also subject to the risks of inflow of water as a result of our shaft mining operations. our operating results are highly dependent upon and fluctuate based upon business and economic conditions and governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry where we or our customers operate. these factors are outside of our control and may significantly affect our profitability. our operating results are highly dependent upon business and economic conditions and governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, which we cannot control. the agricultural products business can be affected by a number of factors. the most important of these factors, for u.s. markets, are: weather patterns and field conditions (particularly during periods of traditionally high crop nutrients consumption); quantities of crop nutrients imported to and exported from north america; 22 table of contents current and projected grain inventories and prices, which are heavily influenced by u.s. exports and world-wide grain markets; and u.s. governmental policies, including farm and biofuel policies, which may directly or indirectly influence the number of acres planted, the level of grain inventories, the mix of crops planted or crop prices. international market conditions, which are also outside of our control, may also significantly influence our operating results. the international market for crop nutrients is influenced by such factors as the relative value of the u.s. dollar and its impact upon the cost of importing crop nutrients, foreign agricultural policies, including subsidy policies, the existence of, or changes in, import or foreign currency exchange barriers in certain foreign markets, changes in the hard currency demands of certain countries and other regulatory policies of foreign governments, as well as the laws and policies of the united states affecting foreign trade and investment. our most important products are global commodities, and we face intense global competition from other crop nutrient producers that can affect our prices and volumes. our most important products are concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, including diammonium phosphate, or dap, monoammonium phosphate, or map, microessentials and muriate of potash, or mop. we sell most of our dap, map and mop in the form of global commodities. our sales of these products face intense global competition from other crop nutrient producers. changes in competitors' production or shifts in their marketing focus have in the past significantly affected both the prices at which we sell our products and the volumes that we sell, and are likely to continue to do so in the future. competitors are more likely to increase their production at times when world agricultural and crop nutrient markets are strong, and to focus on sales into regions where their returns are highest. increases in the global supply of dap, map and mop or competitors' increased sales into regions in which we have significant sales could adversely affect our prices and volumes. competitors and potential new entrants in the markets for both concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and potash have in recent years expanded capacity, or begun, or announced plans, to expand capacity or build new facilities. the extent to which current global or local economic and financial conditions, changes in global or local economic and financial conditions, or other factors may cause delays or cancellation of some of these ongoing or planned projects, or result in the acceleration of existing or new projects, is unclear. in addition, the level of exports by producers of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients in china depends to a significant extent on chinese government actions to curb exports through, among other measures, prohibitive export taxes at times when the government believes it desirable to assure ample domestic supplies of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients to stimulate grain and oilseed production. in addition, some of our competitors who are expanding their potash production capacity include other members of canpotex. canpotex members' respective shares of canpotex sales is based upon the members' respective proven peaking capacity for producing potash. when a canpotex member expands its production capacity, the new capacity is added to that member's proven peaking capacity based on a proving run at the maximum production level. antitrust and competition laws prohibit the members of canpotex from coordinating their production decisions, including the timing of their respective proving runs. worldwide potash production levels during these proving runs could exceed then-current market demand, resulting in an oversupply of potash and lower potash prices. we cannot accurately predict when or whether competitors' or new entrants' ongoing or planned capacity expansions or new facilities will be completed, the timing of competitors' tests to prove peaking capacity for canpotex purposes, the cumulative effect of these and recently completed expansions, the impact of future decisions by the chinese government on the level of chinese exports of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, or the effects of these or other actions by our competitors on the prices for our products or the volumes that we will be able to sell. our crop nutrients and other products are subject to price and demand volatility resulting from periodic imbalances of supply and demand, which may cause our results of operations to fluctuate. historically, the market for crop nutrients has been cyclical, and prices and demand for our products have fluctuated to a significant extent, particularly for phosphates and, to a lesser extent, potash. periods of high demand, increasing profits and high capacity utilization tend to lead to new plant investment and increased production. this growth increases supply until the market is over-saturated, leading to declining prices and declining capacity utilization until the cycle repeats. as a result, crop nutrient prices and volumes have been volatile. this price and volume volatility may cause our results of operations to fluctuate and potentially deteriorate. the price at which we sell our crop nutrient products and our sales volumes could fall in the event of industry oversupply conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial 23 table of contents condition and results of operations. in contrast, high prices may lead our customers and farmers to delay purchasing decisions in anticipation of future lower prices, thus impacting our sales volumes. due to reduced market demand, depressed agricultural economic conditions and other factors, we and our predecessors have at various times suspended or reduced production at some of our facilities. the extent to which we utilize available capacity at our facilities will cause fluctuations in our results of operations, as we will incur costs for any temporary or indefinite shutdowns of our facilities and lower sales tend to lead to higher fixed costs as a percentage of sales. variations in crop nutrient application rates may exacerbate the cyclicality of the crop nutrient markets. farmers are able to maximize their economic return by applying optimum amounts of crop nutrients. farmers' decisions about the application rate for each crop nutrient, or to forego application of a crop nutrient, particularly phosphate and potash, vary from year to year depending on a number of factors, including among others, crop prices, crop nutrient and other crop input costs or the level of the crop nutrient remaining in the soil following the previous harvest. farmers are more likely to increase application rates when crop prices are relatively high, crop nutrient and other crop input costs are relatively low and the level of the crop nutrient remaining in the soil is relatively low. conversely, farmers are likely to reduce or forego application when farm economics are weak or declining or the level of the crop nutrients remaining in the soil is relatively high. this variability in application rates can materially accentuate the cyclicality in prices for our products and our sales volumes. our crop nutrient business is seasonal, which may result in carrying significant amounts of inventory and seasonal variations in working capital, and our inability to predict future seasonal crop nutrient demand accurately may result in excess inventory or product shortages. the crop nutrient business is seasonal. farmers tend to apply crop nutrients during two short application periods, the strongest one in the spring before planting and the other in the fall after harvest. as a result, the strongest demand for our products typically occurs during the spring planting season, with a second period of strong demand following the fall harvest. in contrast, we and other crop nutrient producers generally produce our products throughout the year. as a result, we and/or our customers generally build inventories during the low demand periods of the year in order to ensure timely product availability during the peak sales seasons. the seasonality of crop nutrient demand results in our sales volumes and net sales typically being the highest during the north american spring season and our working capital requirements typically being the highest just prior to the start of the spring season. our quarterly financial results can vary significantly from one year to the next due to weather-related shifts in planting schedules and purchasing patterns. if seasonal demand exceeds our projections, we will not have enough product and our customers may acquire products from our competitors, which would negatively impact our profitability. if seasonal demand is less than we expect, we will be left with excess inventory and higher working capital and liquidity requirements. the degree of seasonality of our business can change significantly from year to year due to conditions in the agricultural industry and other factors. the distribution channels for crop nutrients have capacity to build significant levels of inventories, which can adversely affect our sales volumes and selling prices. in order to balance the production needs of crop nutrient producers with farmers' seasonal use of crop nutrients, crop nutrient distribution channels need to have the capacity to build significant inventories. the build-up of inventories in the distribution channels can become excessive, particularly during the cyclical periods of low demand that have been typical in the crop nutrient industry. when there are excessive inventories in the distribution channel, our sales volumes and selling prices can be adversely impacted, even during periods in which farmers' use of crop nutrients may remain strong. changes in transportation costs can affect our sales volumes and selling prices. the cost of delivery is a significant factor in the total cost to customers and farmers of crop nutrients. as a result, changes in transportation costs or in customer expectations about them can affect our sales volumes and prices. customer expectations about future events can have a significant effect on the demand for our products. these expectations can significantly affect our sales volumes and selling prices. customer expectations about future events have had and are expected to continue to have an effect on the demand and prices for crop nutrients. future events that may be affected by customer expectations include, among others: customer expectations about future crop nutrient prices and availability. customer expectations about selling prices and availability of crop nutrients have had and are expected to continue to have an effect on the demand for crop nutrients. when customers anticipate increasing crop nutrient selling prices, 24 table of contents customers tend to accumulate inventories before the anticipated price increases. this can result in a lag in our realization of rising market prices for our products. conversely, customers tend to delay their purchases when they anticipate future selling prices for crop nutrients will stabilize or decrease, adversely affecting our sales volumes and selling prices. customer expectations about availability of crop nutrients can have similar effects on sales volumes and prices. customer expectations about future farmer economics. similarly, customer expectations about future farmer economics have had and are expected to continue to have an effect on the demand for crop nutrients. when customers anticipate improving farmer economics, customers tend to accumulate crop nutrient inventories in anticipation of increasing sales volumes and selling prices. this can result in a lag in our realization of rising market prices for our products. conversely, when customers anticipate declining farmer economics, customers tend to reduce the level of their purchases of crop nutrients, adversely affecting our sales volumes and selling prices. changes in customer expectations about transportation costs. as discussed above, increasing transportation costs effectively increase customers' and farmers' costs for crop nutrients and can reduce the amount we realize for our sales. expectations of decreasing transportation costs can result in customers and farmers anticipating that they may be able to decrease their costs by delaying purchases. as a result, changes in customer expectations about transportation costs can affect our sales volumes and prices. we conduct our operations primarily through a limited number of key production and distribution facilities. any disruption at one of these facilities could have a material adverse impact on our business. the risk of material disruption increases when demand for our products results in high operating rates at our facilities. we conduct our operations through a limited number of key production and distribution facilities. these facilities include our phosphate mines and concentrates plants; our potash mines; and the ports and other distribution facilities through which we, and the export associations and joint ventures in which we participate, conduct our respective businesses, as well as other commercial arrangements with unrelated third parties. any disruption of operations at one of these facilities has the possibility of significantly affecting our production or our ability to distribute our products. operating these facilities at high rates during periods of high demand for our products increases the risk of mechanical or structural failures, decreases the time available for routine maintenance and increases the impact on our operating results from any disruption. a disruption of operations at one of our key facilities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. examples of the types of events that could result in a disruption at one of these facilities include: adverse weather; strikes or other work stoppages; deliberate, malicious acts, including acts of terrorism; political and economic instability; cyber attacks and other risks associated with our international operations; changes in permitting, financial assurance or other environmental, health and safety laws or other changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate; legal and regulatory proceedings; our relationships with other members of an export association and joint ventures in which we participate and their or our exit from participation in such export association or joint ventures; other changes in our commercial arrangements with unrelated third parties; brine inflows at our esterhazy, saskatchewan, mine or our other shaft mines; other accidents occurring in the course of operating activities; and other factors. insurance market conditions, our loss experience and other factors affect the insurance coverage that we carry, and we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. as a result, our insurance coverage may not adequately cover our losses. we maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance policies, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. we are subject to various self-retentions and deductibles under these insurance policies. as a result of market conditions, our loss experience and other factors, our premiums, self-retentions and deductibles for insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. in addition, significantly increased costs could lead us to decide to reduce, or possibly eliminate, coverage. as a result, a disruption of operations at one of our key facilities or a significant casualty could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. important raw materials and energy used in our businesses in the past have been and may in the future be the subject of volatile pricing. changes in the price of our raw materials could have a material impact on our businesses. natural gas, ammonia and sulfur are key raw materials used in the manufacture of phosphate crop nutrient products. natural gas is used as both a chemical feedstock and a fuel to produce anhydrous ammonia, which is a raw material used in the 25 table of contents production of concentrated phosphate products. natural gas is also a significant energy source used in the potash solution mining process. from time to time, our profitability has been and may in the future be impacted by the price and availability of these raw materials and other energy costs. because most of our products are commodities, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass through increased costs to our customers. a significant increase in the price of natural gas, ammonia, sulfur or energy costs that is not recovered through an increase in the price of our related crop nutrients products could have a material adverse impact on our business. during periods when the price for concentrated phosphates is falling because of falling raw material prices, we may experience a lag in realizing the benefits of the falling raw materials prices. this lag can adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. during some periods, changes in market prices for raw materials can lead to changes in the global market prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients. in particular, the global market prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients can be affected by changes in the market prices for sulfur, ammonia, phosphate rock and/or phosphoric acid raw materials. increasing market prices for these raw materials tend to put upward pressure on the selling prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, and decreasing market prices for these raw materials tend to put downward pressure on selling prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients. when the market prices for these raw materials plunge rapidly, the selling prices for our concentrated phosphate crop nutrients can fall more rapidly than we are able to consume our raw material inventory that we purchased or committed to purchase in the past at higher prices. as a result, our costs may not fall as rapidly as the selling prices of our products. until we are able to consume the higher priced raw materials, our gross margins and profitability can be adversely affected. during periods when the prices for our products are falling because of falling raw material prices, we could be required to write-down the value of our inventories. any such write-down would adversely affect our results of operations and the level of our assets. we carry our inventories at the lower of cost or market. in periods when the market prices for our products are falling rapidly in response to falling market prices for raw materials, it is possible that we could be required to write-down the value of our inventories if market prices fall below our costs. any such write-down would adversely affect our results of operations and the level of our assets. any such effect could be material. our estimates of future selling prices reflect in part the purchase commitments we have from our customers. as a result, defaults on these existing purchase commitments because of the global or local economic and financial conditions or for other reasons could adversely affect our estimates of future selling prices and require additional inventory write-downs. in the event of a disruption to existing terminaling facilities or transportation for our products or raw materials, alternative terminaling facilities or transportation might not be available on a timely basis or have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our customers or facilities. in the event of a disruption of existing terminaling facilities or transportation for our products or raw materials, alternative terminaling facilities or transportation might not be available on a timely basis or have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our customers or facilities. terminaling facilities and transportation include the ports and other distribution facilities through which we, and the export associations and joint ventures in which we participate, conduct our respective businesses; transportation and related equipment arrangements; and other commercial arrangements with unrelated third parties. examples of the types of events that could result in a disruption of terminaling facilities or transportation include: adverse weather; strikes or other work stoppages; deliberate, malicious acts; political and economic instability and other risks associated with our international operations; changes in permitting, financial assurance or other environmental, health and safety laws or other changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate; legal and regulatory proceedings; our relationships with other members of export associations and joint ventures in which we participate and their or our exit from participation in such export associations and joint ventures; other changes in our commercial arrangements with unrelated third parties; accidents occurring in the course of operating activities; lack of truck, rail, barge or ship transportation; and other factors. we discuss a number of these examples in more detail throughout this risk factors section. we are subject to risks associated with our international sales and operations, which could negatively affect our sales to customers in foreign countries as well as our operations and assets in foreign countries. some of these factors may also make it less attractive to distribute cash generated by our operations outside the united states to our stockholders, or to utilize cash generated by our operations in one country to fund our operations or repayments of indebtedness in another country or to support other corporate purposes. 26 table of contents for 2014 , we derived approximately 58% of our net sales from customers located outside of the united states. as a result, we are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: difficulties and costs associated with complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory environments; increased government ownership and regulation of the economy in the countries we serve; political and economic instability, including the possibility for civil unrest, inflation and adverse economic conditions resulting from governmental attempts to reduce inflation, such as imposition of higher interest rates and wage and price controls; nationalization of properties by foreign governments; the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls, trade barriers or other restrictions; and currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies, particularly the brazilian real and the canadian dollar. the occurrence of any of the above in the countries in which we operate or elsewhere could jeopardize or limit our ability to transact business there and could adversely affect our revenues and operating results and the value of our assets located outside of the united states. in addition, tax regulations, currency exchange controls and other restrictions may also make it economically unattractive to: distribute cash generated by our operations outside the united states to our stockholders; or utilize cash generated by our operations in one country to fund our operations or repayments of indebtedness in another country or to support other corporate purposes. changes in tax laws or regulations or their interpretation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities, could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we are subject to taxes, including income taxes, resource taxes and royalties, and other non-income based taxes in the u.s., canada, china, brazil and other countries where we operate. changes in tax laws or regulations or their interpretation could result in higher taxes, which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our international assets are located in countries with volatile conditions, which could subject us and our assets to significant risks. we are a global business with substantial assets located outside of the united states and canada. our operations in brazil, china and india are a fundamental part of our business. we also have joint venture investments in the miski mayo mine in peru that supplies phosphate rock to us, and the wa'ad al shamal joint venture that is developing a mine and chemical complexes that we presently expect would produce phosphate fertilizers, animal feed, feed grade purified phosphoric acid and sodium tripolyphosphate in the kingdom of saudi arabia. volatile economic, political and market conditions in these and other emerging market countries may have a negative impact on our operations, operating results and financial condition. natural resource extraction is an important part of the economy in peru, and, in the past, there have been protests against other natural resource operations in peru. as of the date of this report, there remain numerous social conflicts that exist within the natural resource sector in peru and as a result there is potential for active protests against natural resource companies. if the government of peru's proactive efforts to address the social and environmental issues surrounding natural resource activities were not successful, protests could extend to or impact the miski mayo mine and adversely affect our investment in the miski mayo joint venture or the supply of phosphate rock to us from the mine. adverse weather conditions, including the impact of potential hurricanes, and excess heat, cold, snow, rainfall and drought, have in the past, and may in the future, adversely affect our operations, particularly our phosphates business, and result in increased costs, decreased production and potential liabilities. adverse weather conditions, including the impact of potential hurricanes and excess heat, cold, snow, rainfall and drought, have in the past and may in the future adversely affect our operations, particularly our phosphates business. in the past, hurricanes have resulted in minor physical damage to our facilities in florida and louisiana. in addition, a release of phosphoric acid process wastewater at our riverview, florida facility during a hurricane resulted in a small civil fine, settlement for an immaterial amount of claims for natural resource damages by governmental agencies and an ongoing private lawsuit. additionally, water treatment costs, particularly at our florida operations, due to high water balances tend to increase significantly following excess rainfall from hurricanes or other adverse weather. some of our florida facilities have high water levels that may, from time to time, require treatment. the high water balances at phosphate facilities in florida also led the 27 table of contents florida department of environmental protection to adopt new rules requiring phosphate production facilities to meet more stringent process water management objectives for phosphogypsum management systems. if additional excess rainfall or hurricanes occur in coming years, our facilities may be required to take additional measures to manage process water to comply with existing or future requirements and these measures could potentially have a material effect on our business and financial condition. adverse weather may also cause a loss of production due to disruptions in our supply chain. for example, oil refineries that supply sulfur to us can be closed as a result of a hurricane and incoming shipments of ammonia can be delayed, disrupting production at our florida or louisiana facilities. drought can also adversely affect us. for example, drought can reduce farmers' crop yields and the uptake of phosphates and potash, reducing the need for application of additional phosphates and potash for the next planting season. drought can also lower river levels, adversely affecting delivery of our products to our customers. our operations are dependent on having the required permits and approvals from governmental authorities. denial or delay by a government agency in issuing any of our permits and approvals or imposition of restrictive conditions on us with respect to these permits and approvals may impair our business and operations. we hold numerous governmental environmental, mining and other permits and approvals authorizing operations at each of our facilities. a decision by a government agency to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations at the affected facility. expansion of our operations also is predicated upon securing the necessary environmental or other permits or approvals. over the next several years, we and our subsidiaries will be continuing our efforts to obtain permits in support of our anticipated florida mining operations at certain of our properties. a denial of, or delay in issuing, these permits, the issuance of permits with cost-prohibitive conditions, legal actions that prevent us from relying on permits or revocation of permits, could prevent us from mining at these properties and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for example: in florida, local community participation has become an important factor in the permitting process for mining companies, and various local counties and other parties in florida have in the past and continue to file lawsuits challenging the issuance of some of the permits we require. in fiscal 2009, in connection with our efforts to permit an extension of our four corners, florida, phosphate rock mine, non-governmental organizations for the first time filed a lawsuit in federal court against the u.s. army corps of engineers (the corps ) with respect to its actions in issuing a federal wetlands permit. the federal wetlands permit issued by the corps remained in effect. mining on the extension commenced and approximately 600 acres were mined and/or disturbed. in september 2013, this lawsuit was dismissed by the united states district court for the middle district of florida, jacksonville division. delays in receiving a federal wetlands permit impacted the scheduled progression of mining activities for the extension of our south fort meade, florida, phosphate rock mine into hardee county. as a result, we began to idle a portion of our mining equipment at the mine in the latter part of fiscal 2010. in june 2010, the corps issued the federal wetlands permit. subsequently, certain non-governmental organizations filed another lawsuit in the united states district court for the middle district of florida, jacksonville division, contesting the issuance of this federal wetlands permit, alleging that the corps' actions in issuing the permit violated several federal laws relating to the protection of the environment. preliminary injunctions entered into in connection with this lawsuit resulted in shutdowns or reduced production at our south fort meade mine until april 2012. following a settlement of the lawsuit in february 2012 and court approval, we were able to resume normal production at our south fort meade mine. the periods of shutdown and reduced phosphate rock production at our south fort meade mine resulted in costs to suspend operations and idle plant costs. lower phosphate rock mining production levels also adversely affected gross margin. we have included additional discussion about permitting for our phosphate mines in florida under environmental, health, safety and security matters operating requirements and impacts permitting in our management's analysis. we are subject to financial assurance requirements as part of our routine business operations. these financial assurance requirements affect our costs and increase our liquidity requirements. if we were unable to satisfy applicable financial assurance requirements, we might not be able to obtain or maintain permits we need to operate our business as we have 28 table of contents in the past. our need to comply with these requirements could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. in many cases, as a condition to procuring or maintaining permits and approvals or otherwise, we are required to comply with financial assurance regulatory requirements. the purpose of these requirements is to provide comfort to the government that sufficient funds will be available for the ultimate closure, post-closure care and/or reclamation of our facilities. in most cases, these financial assurance requirements have historically been satisfied without the need for any expenditure of corporate funds to the extent our financial statements meet certain balance sheet and income statement financial strength tests. in the event that we are unable to satisfy these financial strength tests, we must utilize alternative methods of complying with the financial assurance requirements or could be subject to enforcement proceedings brought by relevant government agencies. potential alternative methods of compliance include negotiating a consent agreement that imposes alternative financial assurance or other conditions or, alternatively, providing credit support in the form of cash escrows or trusts, surety bonds from insurance companies, letters of credit from banks, or other forms of financial instruments or collateral to satisfy the financial assurance requirements. use of these alternative means of financial assurance imposes additional expense on us. some of them, such as letters of credit, also use a portion of our available liquidity. other alternative means of financial assurance, such as surety bonds, may in some cases require collateral and generally require us to obtain a discharge of the bonds or to post additional collateral (typically in the form of cash or letters of credit) at the request of the issuer of the bonds. collateral that is required may be in many forms including letters of credit or other financial instruments that utilize a portion of our available liquidity, or in the form of assets such as real estate, which reduces our flexibility to manage or sell assets. in the past, we have also not always been able to satisfy applicable financial strength tests, and in the future, it is possible that we will not be able to pass the applicable financial strength tests, negotiate consent decrees, establish escrow or trust accounts or obtain letters of credit, surety bonds or other financial instruments on acceptable terms and conditions or at a reasonable cost, or that the form and/or cost of compliance could increase, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. as more fully discussed in note 20 of our consolidated financial statements, the u.s. environmental protection agency is engaged in an ongoing review of mineral processing industries, including us and other phosphoric acid producers, under the u.s. resource conservation and recovery act. we are negotiating with the government the terms of a possible settlement of certain matters related to this review. the final terms of this possible settlement are not yet agreed or approved; however, if a settlement can be achieved, in all likelihood our multi-faceted commitments would include as one of its key elements our deposit into one or more trust funds of an amount currently estimated at $625 million to pre-fund a material portion of our existing asset retirement obligations for closure and post-closure care of our phosphogypsum management systems. we have included additional discussion about financial assurance requirements under off balance sheet arrangements and obligations other commercial commitments in our management's analysis. the other environmental regulations to which we are subject may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition to permitting and financial assurance requirements, we are subject to numerous other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the u.s., canada, china, brazil and other countries where we operate. these laws and regulations govern a wide range of matters, including environmental controls, land reclamation, discharges to air and water and remediation of hazardous substance releases. they significantly affect our operating activities as well as the level of our operating costs and capital expenditures. in some international jurisdictions, environmental laws change frequently and it may be difficult for us to determine if we are in compliance with all material environmental laws at any given time. we are, and may in the future be, involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that could be material to us. these proceedings include legacy matters arising from activities of our predecessor companies and from facilities and businesses that we have never owned or operated. we have in the past been, are currently and may in the future be subject to legal and regulatory proceedings that could be material to our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. joint ventures in which we participate could also become subject to these sorts of proceedings. these proceedings may be brought by the government or private parties and may arise out of a variety of matters, including: allegations by the government or private parties that we have violated the permitting, financial assurance or other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations discussed above. for example, in connection with possible settlement of matters relating to the u.s. environmental protection agency's ongoing review of mineral processing industries under the u.s. resource conservation and recovery act, we anticipate that any settlement would include, in general and among other elements, in addition to the trust fund discussed above, our commitment to capital expenditures likely to exceed $150 million in the aggregate over a period of several years and civil penalties. we are 29 table of contents also involved in other proceedings alleging that, or to review whether, we have violated environmental laws in the united states and brazil. other environmental, health and safety matters, including alleged personal injury, wrongful death, complaints that our operations are adversely impacting nearby farms and other business operations, other property damage, subsidence from mining operations, natural resource damages and other damage to the environment, arising out of operations, including accidents. for example, several actions were initiated by the government and private parties related to a release of phosphoric acid process wastewater at our riverview, florida facility during a 2004 hurricane. antitrust, commercial, tax (including tax audits) and other disputes. for example, we were one of a number of defendants in multiple class-action lawsuits, in which the plaintiffs sought unspecified amounts of damages including treble damages, alleging that we and other defendants conspired to, among other matters, fix the price at which potash was sold in the united states, allocated market shares and customers and fraudulently concealed their anticompetitive conduct. in january 2013, we settled these class action antitrust lawsuits for an aggregate of $43.8 million. the legal and regulatory proceedings to which we are currently or may in the future be subject can, depending on the circumstances, result in monetary damage awards, fines, penalties, other liabilities, injunctions or other court or administrative rulings that interrupt, impede or otherwise materially affect our business operations, and/or criminal sanctions. among other environmental laws, the u.s. comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act ( cercla ) imposes liability, including for cleanup costs, without regard to fault or to the legality of a party's conduct, on certain categories of persons, including current and former owners and operators of a site and parties who are considered to have contributed to the release of hazardous substances into the environment. under cercla, or various u.s. state analogs, a party may, under certain circumstances, be required to bear more than its proportional share of cleanup costs at a site where it has liability if payments cannot be obtained from other responsible parties. as a crop nutrient company working with chemicals and other hazardous substances, we will periodically incur liabilities and cleanup costs, under cercla and other environmental laws, with regard to our current or former facilities, adjacent or nearby third-party facilities or offsite disposal locations. pending and potential legal and regulatory proceedings may arise out of our present activities, including operations at current facilities. they may also arise out of past activities by us, our predecessor companies and subsidiaries that our predecessors have sold. these past activities were in some cases at facilities that we and our subsidiaries no longer own or operate and may have never owned or operated. settlements of legal and regulatory matters frequently require court approval. in the event a court were not to approve of a settlement, it is possible that we and the other party or parties to the matter might not be able to settle it on terms that were acceptable to all parties or that we could be required to accept more stringent terms of settlement than required by the opposing parties. we have included additional information with respect to pending legal and regulatory proceedings in note 20 of our consolidated financial statements and in this report in part i, item 3, legal proceedings . these legal and regulatory proceedings involve inherent uncertainties and could negatively impact our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. the permitting, financial assurance and other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations to which we are subject may become more stringent over time. this could increase the effects on us of these laws and regulations, and the increased effects could be material. continued government and public emphasis on environmental, health and safety issues in the u.s., canada, china, brazil and other countries where we operate can be expected to result in requirements that apply to us and our operations that are more stringent than those that are described above and elsewhere in this report. these more stringent requirements may include among other matters increased levels of future investments and expenditures for environmental controls at ongoing operations which will be charged against income from future operations, increased levels of the financial assurance requirements to which we are subject, increased efforts or costs to obtain permits or denial of permits, other new or interpretations of existing statutes or regulations that impose new or more stringent restrictions or liabilities, including liabilities under cercla or similar statutes, including restrictions or liabilities related to elevated levels of naturally-occurring radiation that arise from disturbing the ground in the course of mining activities, and other matters that could increase our expenses, capital requirements or liabilities or adversely affect our business, liquidity or financial condition. in addition, to the extent restrictions imposed in countries where our competitors operate, such as china, india, former soviet union countries or morocco, are less stringent than in the countries where we operate, our competitors could gain cost or other competitive advantages over us. these effects could be material. 30 table of contents among other matters, there are several ongoing initiatives relating to nutrient discharges. new regulatory restrictions from these initiatives could have a material effect on either us or our customers. for example: the florida department of environmental protection ( fdep ) has adopted state nutrient criteria rules ( florida nnc rule ) to supplant the requirements of numeric water quality standards for the discharge of nitrogen and/or phosphorus into florida lakes and streams that were adopted by the epa in december 2010 (the nnc rule ). while the epa has withdrawn the federal nnc rule and the fdep criteria now are effective, the possibility remains that still-pending litigation relating to the nnc rule or future litigation could challenge the epa's withdrawal or the effectiveness of the florida nnc rule. subject to further litigation developments, we expect that compliance with the requirements of nutrient criteria rules could adversely affect our florida phosphate operations, require significant capital expenditures or substantially increase our annual operating expenses. the gulf coast ecosystem restoration task force, established by executive order of the president and comprised of five gulf states and eleven federal agencies, has delivered a final strategy for long-term ecosystem restoration for the gulf coast. the strategy calls for, among other matters, reduction of the flow of excess nutrients into the gulf through state nutrient reduction frameworks, new nutrient reduction approaches and reduction of agricultural and urban sources of excess nutrients. implementation of the strategy will require legislative or regulatory action at the state level. we cannot predict what the requirements of any such legislative or regulatory action could be or whether or how it would affect us or our customers. in march 2012, several nongovernmental organizations brought a lawsuit in federal court against the epa, seeking to require it to establish numeric nutrient criteria for nitrogen and phosphorous in the mississippi river basin and the gulf of mexico. the epa had previously denied a 2008 petition seeking such standards. on may 30, 2012, the court granted our motion to intervene in this lawsuit. on september 20, 2013 the court ruled that the epa had to respond directly to the environmental organizations' petition as to whether numeric nutrient criteria for the mississippi river basin and gulf of mexico are necessary under the clean water act, but that the epa had the discretion to rely on administrative, policy and other non-technical factors in responding to the petition. the epa appealed the district court decision, and oral argument before the fifth circuit court of appeals was heard on december 5, 2014. the court's decision on that appeal is pending. in the event that the epa were to adopt numeric nutrient criteria for the mississippi river basin and the gulf of mexico, we cannot predict what these requirements would be or the effects they would have on us or our customers. we continue to monitor proposed regulations and policies prompted by the 2014 algal bloom in lake erie. we cannot predict the effects such initiatives might have to our operations or those of our customers. in addition, in april 2014 the epa and the u.s. army corps of engineers jointly issued a proposed rule that would redefine the scope of waters regulated under the federal clean water act. we believe the new definition would expand the types and extent of water resources regulated under federal law, thereby potentially expanding our permitting and reporting requirements, increasing our costs of compliance, including costs associated with wetlands and stream mitigation, lengthening the time necessary to obtain permits, and restricting our ability to mine certain of our phosphate rock reserves. if the rule were finalized as proposed, we believe it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. regulatory restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions and climate change regulations in the united states, canada or elsewhere could adversely affect us, and these effects could be material. various governmental initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions are under way or under consideration around the world. these initiatives could restrict our operating activities, require us to make changes in our operating activities that would increase our operating costs, reduce our efficiency or limit our output, require us to make capital improvements to our facilities, increase our energy, raw material and transportation costs or limit their availability, or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, and these effects could be material to us. governmental greenhouse gas emission initiatives include among others: initiatives in the united states: various legislative or regulatory initiatives relating to greenhouse gases have been adopted or considered by the u.s. congress, the epa or various states. it is possible that future legislation or regulation addressing climate change could adversely affect our operating activities, energy, raw material and transportation costs, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, and these effects could be material. initiatives in canada: canada remains committed to addressing climate change. under the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc), canada signed the copenhagen accord in december 2009 and committed to reduce its greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions to 17% below 2005 levels by 2020. the government is pursuing a sector-by-sector regulatory approach aligned with the united states, where appropriate. our saskatchewan 31 table of contents potash facilities continue to work with the canadian fertilizer institute and environment canada on a sector based approach. in may 2009, the province of saskatchewan, in which our canadian potash mines are located, began to consider legislation intended to lead to the development and administration of climate change regulation in saskatchewan by the province rather than the federal government. key elements under consideration by the province include a primary focus on achieving a 20% reduction by 2020. under the proposed framework, compliance mechanisms such as the technology fund, recognition for early action, pre-certified investments, emission intensive trade exposed credits and carbon offsets would be established to provide flexibility for regulated emitters to meet their greenhouse gas reduction obligations. international initiatives. although international negotiations concerning greenhouse gas emission reductions and other responses to climate change are underway, final obligations in the post-kyoto protocol period after 2012 remain undefined. any new international agreements addressing climate change could adversely affect our operating activities, energy, raw material and transportation costs, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, and these effects could be material. in addition, to the extent climate change restrictions imposed in countries where our competitors operate, such as china, india, former soviet union countries or morocco, are less stringent than in the united states or canada, our competitors could gain cost or other competitive advantages over us. future climate change could adversely affect us. the prospective impact of climate change on our operations and those of our customers and farmers remains uncertain. some scientists have hypothesized that the impacts of climate change could include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperature levels and that these changes could be severe. these impacts could vary by geographic location. at the present time, we cannot predict the prospective impact of climate change on our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, or whether any such effects could be material to us. some of our competitors and potential competitors have greater resources than we do, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage and adversely affect our sales and profitability. these competitors include state-owned and government-subsidized entities in other countries. we compete with a number of producers throughout the world, including state-owned and government-subsidized entities. some of these entities may have greater total resources than we do, and may be less dependent on earnings from crop nutrients sales than we are. in addition, some of these entities may have access to lower cost or government-subsidized natural gas supplies, placing us at a competitive disadvantage. furthermore, certain governments as owners of some of our competitors may be willing to accept lower prices and profitability on their products in order to support domestic employment or other political or social goals. to the extent other producers of crop nutrients enjoy competitive advantages or are willing to accept lower profit levels, the price of our products, our sales volumes and our profits may be adversely affected. we have substantial cash balances that we invest in what we believe to be relatively short-term, highly liquid and high credit quality investments. we intend the investment risks, including counterparty default and lack of liquidity, on these types of investments to be relatively low, but market rates of return on these types of investments are also generally relatively low. in addition, our efforts to manage the investment risks could be unsuccessful. this could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. our significant cash flows from operations have resulted in cash and cash-equivalents of approximately $2.4 billion as of december 31, 2014 . our cash and cash-equivalents should continue to increase when we generate cash from operations, except to the extent we reinvest in our business or make distributions to our stockholders. we generally invest these cash and cash-equivalents in what we believe to be relatively short-term, highly liquid and high credit quality instruments. because of these characteristics of our cash and cash-equivalents, the market rates of return on them are lower than our expectations for the return on capital invested in our business operations. moreover, our efforts to manage investment risk by focusing our investing on short-term, highly liquid and high credit quality investments could prove unsuccessful. the likelihood that our efforts to manage investment risk might prove unsuccessful is heightened during times when there is significant turmoil in the financial markets. as a result, counterparties could default on their obligations to us, or the liquidity of financial instruments that we hold could become impaired. any such event could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. during 2014 we repurchased approximately 51.5 million class a shares and approximately 7.6 million common shares, and we have approximately $191.3 million remaining under our publicly announced $1 billion share repurchase program. these share repurchases have, and are expected to continue to, reduce our cash balances and liquidity. the agreements relating to the cargill transaction prevented us from repurchasing our shares in a negotiated transaction or through open market repurchases until november 26, 2013. on december 6, 2013, we entered into the mac trusts share 32 table of contents repurchase agreement to purchase all of our class a shares held by the mac trusts through a series of eight purchases during the period january 8, 2014 through july 30, 2014. during 2014, all 43,294,015 class a shares held by the mac trusts were repurchased under the mac trusts share repurchase agreement. in february of 2014, our board of directors authorized a $1 billion share repurchase program (the repurchase program ), allowing us to repurchase class a shares or shares of common stock, through direct buybacks or in open market transactions, in line with our capital management policy. the authorization is in addition to the mac trusts share repurchase agreement under which we have repurchased class a shares from the mac trusts. during 2014, under the repurchase program, 8,193,698 class a shares were repurchased under agreements we entered into with certain cargill family member trusts and 7,585,085 shares of common stock were repurchased in the open market for an aggregate of $727.3 million. under our capital management policy, we have also indicated our willingness to use our available debt capacity, as well as our surplus cash, to fund share repurchases, financial assurance requirements arising in our business and strategic investments. our use of our surplus cash and/or available debt capacity for these purposes has reduced our available cash and liquidity. to the extent we use our surplus cash and/or available debt capacity for these purposes in the future, our available cash and liquidity could be further reduced. we do not own a controlling equity interest in our non-consolidated companies, some of which are foreign companies, and therefore our operating results and cash flow may be materially affected by how the governing boards and majority owners operate such businesses. there may also be limitations on monetary distributions from these companies that are outside of our control. together, these factors may lower our equity earnings or cash flow from such businesses and negatively impact our results of operations. we recently entered into the wa'ad al shamal joint venture to develop a mine and chemical complexes for an estimated $7.5 billion that would produce phosphate fertilizers, animal feed, feed grade purified phosphoric acid and sodium tripolyphosphate in the kingdom of saudi arabia. we have a 25% interest in the joint venture and expect our cash investment will be up to $850 million , funded over a four-year period. the success of this joint venture will depend on, among other matters, the ability of the wa'ad al shamal joint venture to obtain additional planned funding in acceptable amounts and upon acceptable terms, the future success of current plans for the development and operation of the wa'ad al shamal joint venture and any future changes in those plans. we also hold minority ownership interests in a joint venture that owns and operates a phosphate rock mine and in other companies that are not controlled by us. we expect that the operations and results of the wa'ad al shamal joint venture will be, and the operations or results of some of the other joint ventures or companies are, significant to us, and their operations can affect our earnings. because we do not control these companies either at the board or stockholder levels and because local laws in foreign jurisdictions and contractual obligations may place restrictions on monetary distributions by these companies, we cannot ensure that these companies will operate efficiently, pay dividends, or generally follow the desires of our management by virtue of our board or stockholder representation. as a result, these companies may contribute less than anticipated to our earnings and cash flow, negatively impacting our results of operations and liquidity. strikes or other forms of work stoppage or slowdown could disrupt our business and lead to increased costs. our financial performance is dependent on a reliable and productive work force. a significant portion of our workforce, and that of the joint ventures in which we participate, is covered by collective bargaining agreements with unions. unsuccessful contract negotiations or adverse labor relations could result in strikes or slowdowns. any disruptions may decrease our production and sales or impose additional costs to resolve disputes. the risk of adverse labor relations may increase as our profitability increases because labor unions' expectations and demands generally rise at those times. accidents occurring in the course of our operating activities could result in significant liabilities, interruptions or shutdowns of facilities or the need for significant safety or other expenditures. we engage in mining and industrial activities that can result in serious accidents. mining, in particular, can be a dangerous activity. if our safety procedures are not effective, or if an accident occurs, we could be subject to liabilities arising out of personal injuries or death, our operations could be interrupted and we might have to shut down or abandon affected facilities. accidents could cause us to expend significant amounts to remediate safety issues or to repair damaged facilities. for example: some of our mines are subject to potential damage from earthquakes. the excavation of mines can result in potential seismic events or can increase the likelihood or potential severity of a seismic event. the rise and fall of water levels, such as those arising from the brine inflows and our remediation activities at our esterhazy mine, can also result in or increase the likelihood or potential severity of a seismic event. our esterhazy mine has experienced minor seismic events from time to time. a significant seismic event at one of our 33 table of contents mines could result in serious injuries or death, or damage to or flooding of the mine or, in the extreme scenario, cause us to change our mining process or abandon the mine. our underground potash shaft mines are subject to risk from fire. in the event of a fire, if our emergency procedures are not successful, we could have significant injuries or deaths. in addition, fire at one of our underground shaft mines could halt our operations at the affected mine while we investigate the origin of the fire or for longer periods for remedial work or otherwise. our underground potash shaft mines at esterhazy and colonsay, saskatchewan and carlsbad, new mexico are subject to risk from fire. any failure of our safety procedures in the future could result in serious injuries or death, or shutdowns, which could result in significant liabilities and/or impact on the financial performance of our potash business, including a possible material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we handle significant quantities of ammonia at several of our facilities. if our safety procedures are not effective, an accident involving our ammonia operations could result in serious injuries or death, or result in the shutdown of our facilities. we produce ammonia at our faustina, louisiana phosphate concentrates plant, use ammonia in significant quantities at all of our florida and louisiana phosphates concentrates plants and store ammonia at some of our distribution facilities. for our florida phosphates concentrates plants, ammonia is received at terminals in tampa and transported by pipelines and rail to our facilities. our ammonia is generally stored and transported at high pressures. an accident could occur that could result in serious injuries or death, or the evacuation of areas near an accident. an accident could also result in property damage or the shutdown of our florida or louisiana phosphates concentrates plants, the ammonia terminals, pipelines or rail lines serving those plants or our other ammonia storage and handling facilities. as a result, an accident involving ammonia could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we also use or produce other hazardous or volatile chemicals at some of our facilities. if our safety procedures are not effective, an accident involving these other hazardous or volatile chemicals could result in serious injuries or death, or result in the shutdown of our facilities. we use sulfuric acid in the production of concentrated phosphates in our florida and louisiana operations. some of our florida and louisiana facilities produce fluorosilicic acid, which is a hazardous chemical, for resale to third parties. we also use or produce other hazardous or volatile chemicals at some of our facilities. an accident involving any of these chemicals could result in serious injuries or death, or evacuation of areas near an accident. an accident could also result in property damage or shutdown of our facilities, or cause us to expend significant amounts to remediate safety issues or to repair damaged facilities. as a result, an accident involving any of these chemicals could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. deliberate, malicious acts, including terrorism and cyber attacks, could damage our facilities, disrupt our operations or injure employees, contractors, customers or the public and result in liability to us. intentional acts of destruction could hinder our sales or production and disrupt our supply chain. our facilities could be damaged or destroyed, reducing our operational production capacity and requiring us to repair or replace our facilities at substantial cost. employees, contractors and the public could suffer substantial physical injury for which we could be liable. governmental authorities may impose security or other requirements that could make our operations more difficult or costly. the consequences of any such actions could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by changing antitrust laws to which we are subject. increases in crop nutrient prices can increase the scrutiny to which we are subject under these laws. we are subject to antitrust and competition laws in various countries throughout the world. we cannot predict how these laws or their interpretation, administration and enforcement will change over time. changes in antitrust laws globally, or in their interpretation, administration or enforcement, may limit our existing or future operations and growth, or the operations of canpotex, which serves as an export association for our potash business. increases in crop nutrient prices have in the past resulted in increased scrutiny of the crop nutrient industry under antitrust and competition laws and can increase the risk that these laws could be interpreted, administered or enforced in a manner that could affect our operating practices or impose liability on us in a manner that could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by other changes in laws resulting from increases in food and crop nutrient prices. 34 table of contents increases in prices for, among other things, food, fuel and crop inputs (including crop nutrients) have in the past been the subject of significant discussion by various governmental bodies and officials throughout the world. in response to increases, it is possible that governments in one or more of the locations in which we operate or where we or our competitors sell our products could take actions that could affect us. such actions could include, among other matters, changes in governmental policies relating to agriculture and biofuels (including changes in subsidy levels), price controls, tariffs, windfall profits taxes or export or import taxes. any such actions could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our competitive position could be adversely affected if we are unable to participate in continuing industry consolidation. most of our products are readily available from a number of competitors, and price and other competition in the crop nutrient industry is intense. in addition, crop nutrient production facilities and distribution activities frequently benefit from economies of scale. as a result, particularly during pronounced cyclical troughs, the crop nutrient industry has a long history of consolidation. mosaic itself is the result of a number of industry consolidations. we expect consolidation among crop nutrient producers could continue. our competitive position could suffer to the extent we are not able to expand our own resources either through consolidations, acquisitions, joint ventures or partnerships. in the future, we may not be able to find suitable companies to combine with, assets to purchase or joint venture or partnership opportunities to pursue. even if we are able to locate desirable opportunities, we may not be able to enter into transactions on economically acceptable terms. if we do not successfully participate in continuing industry consolidation, our ability to compete successfully could be adversely affected and result in the loss of customers or an uncompetitive cost structure, which could adversely affect our sales and profitability. our strategy for managing market risk may not be effective. our businesses are affected by fluctuations in market prices for our products, the purchase price of natural gas, ammonia and sulfur consumed in operations, freight and shipping costs and foreign currency exchange rates. we periodically enter into derivatives and forward purchase contracts to mitigate some of these risks. however, our strategy may not be successful in minimizing our exposure to these fluctuations. see market risk in our management's analysis and note 14 of our consolidated financial statements that is incorporated by reference in this report in part ii, item 8. a shortage of railcars, barges and ships for carrying our products and the raw materials we use in our business could result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of production or sales, and higher transportation or equipment costs. we rely heavily upon truck, rail, barge and ocean freight transportation to obtain the raw materials we need and to deliver our products to our customers. in addition, the cost of transportation is an important part of the final sale price of our products. finding affordable and dependable transportation is important in obtaining our raw materials and to supply our customers. higher costs for these transportation services or an interruption or slowdown due to factors including high demand, high fuel prices, labor disputes, layoffs or other factors affecting the availability of qualified transportation workers, adverse weather or other environmental events, or changes to rail, barge or ocean freight systems, could negatively affect our ability to produce our products or deliver them to our customers, which could affect our performance and results of operations. strong demand for grain and other products and a strong world economy increase the demand for and reduce the availability of transportation, both domestically and internationally. shortages of railcars, barges and ocean transport for carrying product and increased transit time may result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of sales and higher equipment and transportation costs. in addition, during periods when the shipping industry has a shortage of ships the substantial time needed to build new ships prevents rapid market response. delays and missed shipments due to transportation shortages, including vessels, barges, railcars and trucks, could result in customer dissatisfaction or loss of sales potential, which could negatively affect our performance and results of operations. a lack of customers' access to credit can adversely affect their ability to purchase our products. some of our customers require access to credit to purchase our products. a lack of available credit to customers in one or more countries, due to global or local economic conditions or for other reasons, could adversely affect demand for crop nutrients. we extend trade credit to our customers and guarantee the financing that some of our customers use to purchase our products. our results of operations may be adversely affected if these customers are unable to repay the trade credit from us or financing from their banks. increases in prices for crop nutrient, other agricultural inputs and grain may increase this risk. we extend trade credit to our customers in the united states and throughout the world, in some cases for extended periods of time. in brazil, where there are fewer third-party financing sources available to farmers, we also have several programs under which we guarantee customers' financing from financial institutions that they use to purchase our products. as our exposure to 35 table of contents longer trade credit extended throughout the world and use of guarantees in brazil increases, we are increasingly exposed to the risk that some of our customers will not pay us or the amounts we have guaranteed. additionally, we become increasingly exposed to risk due to weather and crop growing conditions, fluctuations in commodity prices or foreign currencies, and other factors that influence the price, supply and demand for agricultural commodities. significant defaults by our customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. increases in prices for crop nutrients increase the dollar amount of our sales to customers. the larger dollar value of our customers' purchases may also lead them to request longer trade credit from us and/or increase their need for us to guarantee their financing of our products. either factor could increase the amount of our exposure to the risk that our customers may be unable to repay the trade credit from us or financing from their banks that we guarantee. in addition, increases in prices for other agricultural inputs and grain may increase the working capital requirements, indebtedness and other liabilities of our customers, increase the risk that they will default on the trade credit from us or their financing that we guarantee, and decrease the likelihood that we will be able to collect from our customers in the event of their default. tax rules governing the cargill transaction limited our ability to execute certain actions for a period of time following the cargill transaction and, if our procedures for compliance with those restrictions were ineffective, notwithstanding the irs ruling and tax opinion issued to cargill in connection with the cargill transaction, we could owe significant tax-related indemnification liabilities to cargill. the irs issued a ruling to the effect that the split-off that was part of the cargill transaction would be tax-free to cargill and its stockholders, and in connection with the completion of the cargill transaction, cargill received a tax opinion relating to certain tax consequences of the cargill transaction. notwithstanding the irs ruling and tax opinion, however, the split-off and debt exchanges could be taxable to cargill and its stockholders under certain circumstances. therefore, we and cargill agreed to tax-related restrictions and indemnities set forth in a tax agreement related to the cargill transaction, under which we were restricted or deterred from taking certain actions until may 26, 2013, including (i) redeeming or purchasing our stock in excess of agreed-upon amounts; (ii) issuing any equity securities in excess of agreed upon amounts; (iii) approving or recommending a third party's acquisition of us; (iv) permitting any merger or other combination of mosaic or mos holdings; and (v) entering into an agreement for the purchase of any interest in mosaic or mos holdings, subject to certain exceptions. we agreed to indemnify cargill for taxes and tax-related losses imposed on cargill as a result of the split-off and/or debt exchange failing to qualify as tax-free, if the taxes and related losses are attributable to, arise out of or result from certain prohibited acts or to any breach of, or inaccuracy in, any representation, warranty or covenant made by us in the tax agreement referred to above. the taxes and tax-related losses of cargill would be material if these transactions fail to qualify as tax-free, and, if our procedures for avoiding any of these prohibited acts or breaches were ineffective, this indemnity would result in material liabilities from us to cargill that could have a material adverse effect on us. for a further discussion of the restrictions and indemnities set forth in the agreements related to the cargill transaction, please see note 2 to our consolidated financial statements. provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. our restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. these provisions include the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent and the inability of our stockholders to request that our board of directors or chairman of our board call a special meeting of stockholders. we are also subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. in general, section 203 prohibits a publicly held delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years from the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the interested stockholder attained this status with the approval of the board of directors or unless the business combination was approved in a prescribed manner. a business combination includes mergers, asset sales and other transactions resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder. subject to exceptions, an interested stockholder is a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns, or within three years owned, 15% or more of the corporation's voting stock. this statute could prohibit or delay the accomplishment of mergers or other takeover or change in control attempts with respect to us and, accordingly, may discourage attempts to acquire us. these provisions apply not only when they may protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics but even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in our best interests or those of our stockholders. our success will increasingly depend on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified and motivated employees. 36 table of contents we believe our continued success depends on the collective abilities and efforts of our employees. like many businesses, a significant number of our employees, including some of our most highly skilled employees with specialized expertise in potash and phosphates operations, will be approaching retirement age throughout the next decade and beyond. in addition, we compete for a talented workforce with other businesses, particularly within the mining and chemicals industries in general and the crop nutrients industry in particular. our expansion plans are highly dependent on our ability to attract, retain and train highly qualified and motivated employees who are essential to the success of our ongoing operations as well as to our expansion plans. if we were to be unsuccessful in attracting, retaining and training the employees we require, our ongoing operations and expansion plans could be materially and adversely affected. future technological innovation could affect our business. future technological innovation such as the development of seeds that require less crop nutrients, or developments in the application of crop nutrients, if they occur, could have the potential to adversely affect the demand for our products and our results of operations, liquidity and capital resources. the success of our strategic initiatives depends on our ability to effectively manage these initiatives, and to successfully integrate and grow acquired businesses. we have initiated several significant strategic initiatives, principally our plans to expand the annual production capacity of our potash business, the wa'ad al shamal joint venture, the cf phosphate assets acquisition and our acquisition of adm's fertilizer distribution business in brazil and paraguay. these strategic initiatives involve capital and other expenditures of several billions of dollars over a number of years and require effective project management and, in the case of strategic acquisitions, successful integration. to the extent the processes we (or, for the wa'ad al shamal joint venture, we together with ma'aden and sabic) put in place to manage these initiatives or integrate and grow acquired businesses are not effective, our capital expenditure and other costs may exceed our expectations or the benefits we expect from these initiatives might not be fully realized. we may fail to fully realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the cf phosphate assets acquisition and the cf ammonia supply agreements. the success of our cf phosphate assets acquisition and the cf ammonia supply agreements will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from combining cf's phosphate mining and production operations with our operations in central florida, our ability to avoid or delay future capital spending as a result of the transactions and our ability to realize cost savings from natural gas based pricing under one of the long term cf ammonia supply agreements. our ability to realize these anticipated benefits and cost savings is subject to certain risks including: our ability to avoid certain planned capital expenditures necessary for future mines through utilization of some of the mining infrastructure assets we acquired from cf and to avoid the capital expenditures for our own new ammonia plant as a result of the cf ammonia supply agreements; whether the combined operations will perform as expected; whether cf successfully performs its obligations under the cf ammonia supply agreements over the life of its commitment; and the cooperation of federal, state and local governmental agencies on matters relating to the acquisition, including permitting of cf's proposed south pasture extension mine, and other regulatory enforcement matters. in addition, we use ammonia as a raw material in the production of our concentrated phosphate products. under one of the cf ammonia supply agreements, we have agreed to purchase 545,000 to 725,000 tonnes of ammonia per year for up to 15 years at a price to be determined by a formula based on the prevailing price of u.s. natural gas. this agreement is expected to commence prior to january 1, 2017. if the price of natural gas rises or the market price for ammonia falls outside of the range we currently anticipate, we may not fully realize the cost benefit we anticipate from the natural gas based pricing under this agreement, or the cost of our ammonia under this agreement could be a competitive disadvantage. our benefits from the cf phosphate assets acquisition and the acquisition of adm's fertilizer distribution business depend, in part, on the accuracy of our estimates of the liabilities and obligations we are assuming in the transaction. we have assumed various liabilities and obligations of cf and adm as part of the cf phosphate assets acquisition and our acquisition of adm's fertilizer distribution business in brazil and paraguay. the benefits we expect from these acquisitions depend, in part, on the accuracy of our estimates of these liabilities and obligations. to the extent we have underestimated these liabilities and obligations, we might not fully realize the benefits we are expecting from the acquisitions. cyber attacks could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse impact on our business. 37 table of contents we utilize and rely upon information technology systems in many aspects of our business, including internal and external communications and the management of our accounting, financial and supply chain functions. as we become more dependent on information technologies to conduct our operations, and as the number and sophistication of cyber attacks increase, the risks associated with cyber security increase. these risks apply both to us, and to third parties on whose systems we rely for the conduct of our business. failure to effectively anticipate, prevent, detect and recover from the increasing number and sophistication of cyber attacks could result in theft, loss, damage, misuse or modification of and to our information and cause disruptions in our business, reputational damage and third-party claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 41 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we have included a discussion about market risks under market risk in the management's analysis that is included in this report in part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . this information is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 22 risk factors. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the risks and uncertainties described below. our esterhazy mine has had an inflow of salt saturated brine for more than 30 years. since december 1985, we have had inflows of salt saturated brine into our esterhazy, saskatchewan mine. over the past century, several potash mines experiencing water inflow problems have flooded. in order to control brine inflows at esterhazy, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, expenditures, certain of which, due to their nature, have been capitalized, while others have been charged to expense. at various times, we experience changing amounts and patterns of brine inflows at the esterhazy mine. periodically, some of these inflows have exceeded available pumping capacity. if that were to continue for several months without abatement, it could exceed our available storage capacity and ability to effectively manage the brine inflow. this could adversely affect production at the esterhazy mine. see key factors that can affect results of operations and financial condition and potash net sales and gross margin in our management's analysis for a discussion of costs and other information relating to the brine inflows. the brine inflow is variable, resulting in both net inflows (the rate of inflow is more than the amount we are pumping out of the mine) and net outflows (when we are pumping more brine out of the mine than the rate of inflow). there can be no assurance that: our pumping, surface storage, underground storage or injection well capacities for brine will continue to be sufficient, or that the pumping, grouting and other measures that we use to manage the inflows at the esterhazy mine will continue to be effective; there will not be a disruption in the supply of calcium chloride, which is a primary material used to reduce or prevent the flow of incoming brine; our estimates of the volumes of net inflows or net outflows of brine, or storage capacity for brine at the esterhazy mine, are accurate; the volumes of the brine inflows will not fluctuate from time to time, the rate of the brine inflows will not be greater than our prior experience or current assumptions, changes in inflow patterns will not adversely affect our ability to locate and manage the inflows, or that any such fluctuations, increases or changes would not be material; and the expenditures to control the inflows will be consistent with our prior experience or future estimates. from time to time, new or improved technology becomes available to facilitate our remediation of the inflows, such as horizontal drilling techniques. taking advantage of these new or improved technologies may require significant capital expenditures and/or may increase our costs of remediation. it is possible that the costs of remedial efforts at esterhazy may further increase in the future and that such an increase could be material, or, in the extreme scenario, that the brine inflows, risk to employees or remediation costs may increase to a level which would cause us to change our mining processes or abandon the mines. see key factors that can affect results of operations and financial condition and potash net sales and gross margin in our management's analysis, which is incorporated herein by reference, for a discussion of costs, risks and other information relating to the brine inflows. due to the ongoing brine inflow at esterhazy, subject to exceptions that are limited in scope and amount, we are unable to obtain coverage for underground operations for water incursion problems. our mines at colonsay, saskatchewan, and carlsbad, new mexico, are also subject to the risks of inflow of water as a result of our shaft mining operations. our operating results are highly dependent upon and fluctuate based upon business and economic conditions and governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry where we or our customers operate. these factors are outside of our control and may significantly affect our profitability. our operating results are highly dependent upon business and economic conditions and governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, which we cannot control. the agricultural products business can be affected by a number of factors. the most important of these factors, for u.s. markets, are: weather patterns and field conditions (particularly during periods of traditionally high crop nutrients consumption); quantities of crop nutrients imported to and exported from north america; current and projected grain inventories and prices, which are heavily influenced by u.s. exports and world-wide grain markets; and 22 table of contents u.s. governmental policies, including farm and biofuel policies, which may directly or indirectly influence the number of acres planted, the level of grain inventories, the mix of crops planted or crop prices. international market conditions, which are also outside of our control, may also significantly influence our operating results. the international market for crop nutrients is influenced by such factors as the relative value of the u.s. dollar and its impact upon the cost of importing crop nutrients, foreign agricultural policies, including subsidy policies, the existence of, or changes in, import or foreign currency exchange barriers in certain foreign markets, changes in the hard currency demands of certain countries and other regulatory policies of foreign governments, as well as the laws and policies of the united states affecting foreign trade and investment. our most important products are global commodities, and we face intense global competition from other crop nutrient producers that can affect our prices and volumes. our most important products are concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, including diammonium phosphate, or dap, monoammonium phosphate, or map, microessentials and muriate of potash, or mop. we sell most of our dap, map and mop in the form of global commodities. our sales of these products face intense global competition from other crop nutrient producers. changes in competitors' production or shifts in their marketing focus have in the past significantly affected both the prices at which we sell our products and the volumes that we sell, and are likely to continue to do so in the future. competitors are more likely to increase their production at times when world agricultural and crop nutrient markets are strong, and to focus on sales into regions where their returns are highest. increases in the global supply of dap, map and mop or competitors' increased sales into regions in which we have significant sales could adversely affect our prices and volumes. competitors and potential new entrants in the markets for both concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and potash have in recent years expanded capacity, or begun, or announced plans, to expand capacity or build new facilities. the extent to which current global or local economic and financial conditions, changes in global or local economic and financial conditions, or other factors may cause delays or cancellation of some of these ongoing or planned projects, or result in the acceleration of existing or new projects, is unclear. in addition, the level of exports by producers of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients in china depends to a significant extent on chinese government actions to curb exports through, among other measures, prohibitive export taxes at times when the government believes it desirable to assure ample domestic supplies of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients to stimulate grain and oilseed production. in addition, some of our competitors who are expanding their potash production capacity include other members of canpotex. canpotex members' respective shares of canpotex sales is based upon the members' respective proven peaking capacity for producing potash. when a canpotex member expands its production capacity, the new capacity is added to that member's proven peaking capacity based on a proving run at the maximum production level. antitrust and competition laws prohibit the members of canpotex from coordinating their production decisions, including the timing of their respective proving runs. worldwide potash production levels during these proving runs could exceed then-current market demand, resulting in an oversupply of potash and lower potash prices. we cannot accurately predict when or whether competitors' or new entrants' ongoing or planned capacity expansions or new facilities will be completed, the timing of competitors' tests to prove peaking capacity for canpotex purposes, the cumulative effect of these and recently completed expansions, the impact of future decisions by the chinese government on the level of chinese exports of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, or the effects of these or other actions by our competitors on the prices for our products or the volumes that we will be able to sell. our crop nutrients and other products are subject to price and demand volatility resulting from periodic imbalances of supply and demand, which may cause our results of operations to fluctuate. historically, the market for crop nutrients has been cyclical, and prices and demand for our products have fluctuated to a significant extent, particularly for phosphates and, to a lesser extent, potash. periods of high demand, increasing profits and high capacity utilization tend to lead to new plant investment and increased production. this growth increases supply until the market is over-saturated, leading to declining prices and declining capacity utilization until the cycle repeats. as a result, crop nutrient prices and volumes have been volatile. this price and volume volatility may cause our results of operations to fluctuate and potentially deteriorate. the price at which we sell our crop nutrient products and our sales volumes could fall in the event of industry oversupply conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, 23 table of contents financial condition and results of operations. in contrast, high prices may lead our customers and farmers to delay purchasing decisions in anticipation of future lower prices, thus impacting our sales volumes. due to reduced market demand, depressed agricultural economic conditions and other factors, we and our predecessors have at various times suspended or reduced production at some of our facilities. the extent to which we utilize available capacity at our facilities will cause fluctuations in our results of operations, as we will incur costs for any temporary or indefinite shutdowns of our facilities and lower sales tend to lead to higher fixed costs as a percentage of sales. variations in crop nutrient application rates may exacerbate the cyclicality of the crop nutrient markets. farmers are able to maximize their economic return by applying optimum amounts of crop nutrients. farmers' decisions about the application rate for each crop nutrient, or to forego application of a crop nutrient, particularly phosphate and potash, vary from year to year depending on a number of factors, including among others, crop prices, crop nutrient and other crop input costs or the level of the crop nutrient remaining in the soil following the previous harvest. farmers are more likely to increase application rates when crop prices are relatively high, crop nutrient and other crop input costs are relatively low and the level of the crop nutrient remaining in the soil is relatively low. conversely, farmers are likely to reduce or forego application when farm economics are weak or declining or the level of the crop nutrients remaining in the soil is relatively high. this variability in application rates can materially accentuate the cyclicality in prices for our products and our sales volumes. our crop nutrient business is seasonal, which may result in carrying significant amounts of inventory and seasonal variations in working capital, and our inability to predict future seasonal crop nutrient demand accurately may result in excess inventory or product shortages. the crop nutrient business is seasonal. farmers tend to apply crop nutrients during two short application periods, the strongest one in the spring before planting and the other in the fall after harvest. as a result, the strongest demand for our products typically occurs during the spring planting season, with a second period of strong demand following the fall harvest. in contrast, we and other crop nutrient producers generally produce our products throughout the year. as a result, we and/or our customers generally build inventories during the low demand periods of the year in order to ensure timely product availability during the peak sales seasons. the seasonality of crop nutrient demand results in our sales volumes and net sales typically being the highest during the north american spring season and our working capital requirements typically being the highest just prior to the start of the spring season. our quarterly financial results can vary significantly from one year to the next due to weather-related shifts in planting schedules and purchasing patterns. if seasonal demand exceeds our projections, we will not have enough product and our customers may acquire products from our competitors, which would negatively impact our profitability. if seasonal demand is less than we expect, we will be left with excess inventory and higher working capital and liquidity requirements. the degree of seasonality of our business can change significantly from year to year due to conditions in the agricultural industry and other factors. the distribution channels for crop nutrients have capacity to build significant levels of inventories, which can adversely affect our sales volumes and selling prices. in order to balance the production needs of crop nutrient producers with farmers' seasonal use of crop nutrients, crop nutrient distribution channels need to have the capacity to build significant inventories. the build-up of inventories in the distribution channels can become excessive, particularly during the cyclical periods of low demand that have been typical in the crop nutrient industry. when there are excessive inventories in the distribution channel, our sales volumes and selling prices can be adversely impacted, even during periods in which farmers' use of crop nutrients may remain strong. changes in transportation costs can affect our sales volumes and selling prices. the cost of delivery is a significant factor in the total cost to customers and farmers of crop nutrients. as a result, changes in transportation costs or in customer expectations about them can affect our sales volumes and prices. customer expectations about future events can have a significant effect on the demand for our products. these expectations can significantly affect our sales volumes and selling prices. customer expectations about future events have had and are expected to continue to have an effect on the demand and prices for crop nutrients. future events that may be affected by customer expectations include, among others: customer expectations about future crop nutrient prices and availability. 24 table of contents customer expectations about selling prices and availability of crop nutrients have had and are expected to continue to have an effect on the demand for crop nutrients. when customers anticipate increasing crop nutrient selling prices, customers tend to accumulate inventories before the anticipated price increases. this can result in a lag in our realization of rising market prices for our products. conversely, customers tend to delay their purchases when they anticipate future selling prices for crop nutrients will stabilize or decrease, adversely affecting our sales volumes and selling prices. customer expectations about availability of crop nutrients can have similar effects on sales volumes and prices. customer expectations about future farmer economics. similarly, customer expectations about future farmer economics have had and are expected to continue to have an effect on the demand for crop nutrients. when customers anticipate improving farmer economics, customers tend to accumulate crop nutrient inventories in anticipation of increasing sales volumes and selling prices. this can result in a lag in our realization of rising market prices for our products. conversely, when customers anticipate declining farmer economics, customers tend to reduce the level of their purchases of crop nutrients, adversely affecting our sales volumes and selling prices. changes in customer expectations about transportation costs. as discussed above, increasing transportation costs effectively increase customers' and farmers' costs for crop nutrients and can reduce the amount we realize for our sales. expectations of decreasing transportation costs can result in customers and farmers anticipating that they may be able to decrease their costs by delaying purchases. as a result, changes in customer expectations about transportation costs can affect our sales volumes and prices. we conduct our operations primarily through a limited number of key production and distribution facilities. any disruption at one of these facilities could have a material adverse impact on our business. the risk of material disruption increases when demand for our products results in high operating rates at our facilities. we conduct our operations through a limited number of key production and distribution facilities. these facilities include our phosphate mines and concentrates plants; our potash mines; and the ports and other distribution facilities through which we, canpotex and any joint ventures in which we participate, conduct our respective businesses, as well as other commercial arrangements with unrelated third parties. any disruption of operations at one of these facilities has the possibility of significantly affecting our production or our ability to distribute our products. operating these facilities at high rates during periods of high demand for our products increases the risk of mechanical or structural failures, decreases the time available for routine maintenance and increases the impact on our operating results from any disruption. a disruption of operations at one of our key facilities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. examples of the types of events that could result in a disruption at one of these facilities include: adverse weather; strikes or other work stoppages; deliberate, malicious acts, including acts of terrorism; political and economic instability; cyber attacks and other risks associated with our international operations; changes in permitting, financial assurance or other environmental, health and safety laws or other changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate; legal and regulatory proceedings; our relationships with other members of canpotex and any joint ventures in which we participate and their or our exit from participation in canpotex or any such joint ventures; other changes in our commercial arrangements with unrelated third parties; brine inflows at our esterhazy, saskatchewan, mine or our other shaft mines; other accidents occurring in the course of operating activities; and other factors. insurance market conditions, our loss experience and other factors affect the insurance coverage that we carry, and we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. as a result, our insurance coverage may not adequately cover our losses. we maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance policies, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. we are subject to various self-retentions and deductibles under these insurance policies. as a result of market conditions, our loss experience and other factors, our premiums, self-retentions and deductibles for insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. in addition, significantly increased costs could lead us to decide to reduce, or possibly eliminate, coverage. as a result, a disruption of operations at one of our key facilities or a significant casualty could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 25 table of contents important raw materials and energy used in our businesses in the past have been and may in the future be the subject of volatile pricing. changes in the price of our raw materials could have a material impact on our businesses. natural gas, ammonia and sulfur are key raw materials used in the manufacture of phosphate crop nutrient products. natural gas is used as both a chemical feedstock and a fuel to produce anhydrous ammonia, which is a raw material used in the production of concentrated phosphate products. natural gas is also a significant energy source used in the potash solution mining process. from time to time, our profitability has been and may in the future be impacted by the price and availability of these raw materials and other energy costs. because most of our products are commodities, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass through increased costs to our customers. a significant increase in the price of natural gas, ammonia, sulfur or energy costs that is not recovered through an increase in the price of our related crop nutrients products could have a material adverse impact on our business. in addition, in 2017 we expect to commence purchasing ammonia under our long-term cf ammonia supply agreement under which we will purchase approximately 545,000 to 725,000 tonnes of ammonia per year during a term that may extend until december 31, 2032 at a price to be determined by a formula based on the prevailing price of u.s. natural gas. if the price of natural gas rises or the market price for ammonia falls outside of the range we currently anticipate, we may not fully realize the cost benefit from the natural gas based pricing under this agreement, or the cost of our ammonia under this agreement could be a competitive disadvantage. during periods when the price for concentrated phosphates is falling because of falling raw material prices, we may experience a lag in realizing the benefits of the falling raw materials prices. this lag can adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. during some periods, changes in market prices for raw materials can lead to changes in the global market prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients. in particular, the global market prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients can be affected by changes in the market prices for sulfur, ammonia, phosphate rock and/or phosphoric acid raw materials. increasing market prices for these raw materials tend to put upward pressure on the selling prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, and decreasing market prices for these raw materials tend to put downward pressure on selling prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients. when the market prices for these raw materials plunge rapidly, the selling prices for our concentrated phosphate crop nutrients can fall more rapidly than we are able to consume our raw material inventory that we purchased or committed to purchase in the past at higher prices. as a result, our costs may not fall as rapidly as the selling prices of our products. until we are able to consume the higher priced raw materials, our gross margins and profitability can be adversely affected. during periods when the prices for our products are falling because of falling raw material prices, we could be required to write-down the value of our inventories. any such write-down would adversely affect our results of operations and the level of our assets. we carry our inventories at the lower of cost or market. in periods when the market prices for our products are falling rapidly in response to falling market prices for raw materials, it is possible that we could be required to write-down the value of our inventories if market prices fall below our costs. any such write-down would adversely affect our results of operations and the level of our assets. any such effect could be material. our estimates of future selling prices reflect in part the purchase commitments we have from our customers. as a result, defaults on these existing purchase commitments because of the global or local economic and financial conditions or for other reasons could adversely affect our estimates of future selling prices and require additional inventory write-downs. in the event of a disruption to existing terminaling facilities or transportation for our products or raw materials, alternative terminaling facilities or transportation might not be available on a timely basis or have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our customers or facilities. in the event of a disruption of existing terminaling facilities or transportation for our products or raw materials, alternative terminaling facilities or transportation might not be available on a timely basis or have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our customers or facilities. terminaling facilities and transportation include the ports and other distribution facilities through which we, canpotex and the joint ventures in which we participate, conduct our respective businesses; transportation and related equipment arrangements; and other commercial arrangements with unrelated third parties. examples of the types of events that could result in a disruption of terminaling facilities or transportation include: adverse weather; strikes or other work stoppages; deliberate, malicious acts; political and economic instability and other risks associated with our international operations; changes in permitting, financial assurance or other environmental, health and 26 table of contents safety laws or other changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate; legal and regulatory proceedings; our relationships with other members of canpotex and any joint ventures in which we participate and their or our exit from participation in canpotex or any such joint ventures; other changes in our commercial arrangements with unrelated third parties; accidents occurring in the course of operating activities; lack of truck, rail, barge or ship transportation; and other factors. we discuss a number of these examples in more detail throughout this risk factors section. we are subject to risks associated with our international sales and operations, which could negatively affect our sales to customers in foreign countries as well as our operations and assets in foreign countries. some of these factors may also make it less attractive to distribute cash generated by our operations outside the united states to our stockholders, or to utilize cash generated by our operations in one country to fund our operations or repayments of indebtedness in another country or to support other corporate purposes. for 2015 , we derived approximately 63% of our net sales from customers located outside of the united states. as a result, we are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: difficulties and costs associated with complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory environments; increased government ownership and regulation of the economy in the countries we serve; political and economic instability, including the possibility for civil unrest, inflation and adverse economic conditions resulting from governmental attempts to reduce inflation, such as imposition of higher interest rates and wage and price controls; nationalization of properties by foreign governments; the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls, trade barriers or other restrictions, or government-imposed increases in the cost of resources and materials necessary for the conduct of our operations or the completion of strategic initiatives, including with respect to our joint ventures; and currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies, particularly the brazilian real and the canadian dollar. the occurrence of any of the above in the countries in which we operate or elsewhere could jeopardize or limit our ability to transact business there and could adversely affect our revenues and operating results and the value of our assets located outside of the united states. in addition, tax regulations, currency exchange controls and other restrictions may also make it economically unattractive to: distribute cash generated by our operations outside the united states to our stockholders; or utilize cash generated by our operations in one country to fund our operations or repayments of indebtedness in another country or to support other corporate purposes. changes in tax laws or regulations or their interpretation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities, could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we are subject to taxes, including income taxes, resource taxes and royalties, and other non-income based taxes in the u.s., canada, china, brazil and other countries where we operate. changes in tax laws or regulations or their interpretation could result in higher taxes, which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our international assets are located in countries with volatile conditions, which could subject us and our assets to significant risks. we are a global business with substantial assets located outside of the united states and canada. our operations in brazil, china, india and paraguay are a fundamental part of our business. we also have joint venture investments in the miski mayo mine in peru that supplies phosphate rock to us, and mwspc, which is developing a mine and chemical complexes that we presently expect would produce phosphate fertilizers and other downstream products in the kingdom of saudi arabia. volatile economic, political and market conditions in these and other emerging market countries may have a negative impact on our operations, operating results and financial condition. in addition, unfavorable changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, or governmental actions and policies and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and the pricing and sourcing of our raw materials, may also have a negative impact on our operations, operating results and financial condition. natural resource extraction is an important part of the economy in peru, and, in the past, there have been protests against other natural resource operations in peru. as of the date of this report, there remain numerous social conflicts that exist within 27 table of contents the natural resource sector in peru and as a result there is potential for active protests against natural resource companies. if the government of peru's proactive efforts to address the social and environmental issues surrounding natural resource activities were not successful, protests could extend to or impact the miski mayo mine and adversely affect our investment in the miski mayo joint venture or the supply of phosphate rock to us from the mine. adverse weather conditions, including the impact of hurricanes, and excess heat, cold, snow, rainfall and drought, have in the past, and may in the future, adversely affect our operations, particularly our phosphates business, and result in increased costs, decreased production and potential liabilities. adverse weather conditions, including the impact of hurricanes and excess heat, cold, snow, rainfall and drought, have in the past and may in the future adversely affect our operations, particularly our phosphates business. in the past, hurricanes have resulted in minor physical damage to our facilities in florida and louisiana. in addition, a release of process wastewater at our riverview, florida facility during a hurricane resulted in a small civil fine, settlement for an immaterial amount of claims for natural resource damages by governmental agencies and an ongoing private lawsuit. additionally, water treatment costs, particularly at our florida operations, due to high water balances tend to increase significantly following excess rainfall from hurricanes or other adverse weather. some of our florida facilities have high water levels that may, from time to time, require treatment. the high water balances at phosphate facilities in florida also led the florida department of environmental protection to adopt new rules requiring phosphate production facilities to meet more stringent process water management objectives for phosphogypsum management systems. if additional excess rainfall or hurricanes occur in coming years, our facilities may be required to take additional measures to manage process water to comply with existing or future requirements and these measures could potentially have a material effect on our business and financial condition. adverse weather may also cause a loss of production due to disruptions in our supply chain. for example, oil refineries that supply sulfur to us can be closed as a result of a hurricane and incoming shipments of ammonia can be delayed, disrupting production at our florida or louisiana facilities. drought can also adversely affect us. for example, drought can reduce farmers' crop yields and the uptake of phosphates and potash, reducing the need for application of additional phosphates and potash for the next planting season. drought can also lower river levels, adversely affecting delivery of our products to our customers. our operations are dependent on having the required permits and approvals from governmental authorities. denial or delay by a government agency in issuing any of our permits and approvals or imposition of restrictive conditions on us with respect to these permits and approvals may impair our business and operations. we hold numerous governmental environmental, mining and other permits and approvals authorizing operations at each of our facilities. a decision by a government agency to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations at the affected facility. expansion of our operations also is predicated upon securing the necessary environmental or other permits or approvals. over the next several years, we and our subsidiaries will be continuing our efforts to obtain permits in support of our anticipated florida mining operations at certain of our properties. a denial of, or delay in issuing, these permits, the issuance of permits with cost-prohibitive conditions, legal actions that prevent us from relying on permits or revocation of permits, could prevent us from mining at these properties and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for example: in florida, local community participation has become an important factor in the permitting process for mining companies, and various local counties and other parties in florida have in the past and continue to file lawsuits challenging the issuance of some of the permits we require. in fiscal 2009, in connection with our efforts to permit an extension of our four corners, florida, phosphate rock mine, non-governmental organizations for the first time filed a lawsuit in federal court against the u.s. army corps of engineers (the corps ) with respect to its actions in issuing a federal wetlands permit. the federal wetlands permit issued by the corps remained in effect. mining on the extension commenced and approximately 600 acres were mined and/or disturbed. in september 2013, this lawsuit was dismissed by the united states district court for the middle district of florida, jacksonville division. 28 table of contents delays in receiving a federal wetlands permit impacted the scheduled progression of mining activities for the extension of our south fort meade, florida, phosphate rock mine into hardee county. as a result, we began to idle a portion of our mining equipment at the mine in the latter part of fiscal 2010. in june 2010, the corps issued the federal wetlands permit. subsequently, certain non-governmental organizations filed another lawsuit in the united states district court for the middle district of florida, jacksonville division, contesting the issuance of this federal wetlands permit, alleging that the corps' actions in issuing the permit violated several federal laws relating to the protection of the environment. preliminary injunctions entered into in connection with this lawsuit resulted in shutdowns or reduced production at our south fort meade mine until april 2012. following a settlement of the lawsuit in february 2012 and court approval, we were able to resume normal production at our south fort meade mine. the periods of shutdown and reduced phosphate rock production at our south fort meade mine resulted in costs to suspend operations and idle plant costs. lower phosphate rock mining production levels also adversely affected gross margin. we have included additional discussion about permitting for our phosphate mines in florida under environmental, health, safety and security matters operating requirements and impacts permitting in our management's analysis. we are subject to financial assurance requirements as part of our routine business operations. these financial assurance requirements affect our costs and increase our liquidity requirements. if we were unable to satisfy applicable financial assurance requirements, we might not be able to obtain or maintain permits we need to operate our business as we have in the past. our need to comply with these requirements could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. in many cases, as a condition to procuring or maintaining permits and approvals or otherwise, we are required to comply with financial assurance requirements of governmental authorities. the purpose of these requirements is to provide comfort to the government that sufficient funds will be available for the ultimate closure, post-closure care and/or reclamation of our facilities. with respect to the facilities we acquired as part of the cf phosphate assets acquisition, we have funded a trust to meet florida state regulations governing financial assurance related to the closure and post-closure care of phosphogypsum stacks on a closed facility in florida, and under the terms of a consent decree with federal and state regulators we have funded a separate trust as a means of complying with similar requirements relating to our plant city, florida facility. these financial assurance funding obligations require estimates of future expenditures that could be impacted by refinements in scope, technological developments, cost inflation, changes in regulations, discount rates and the timing of activities. additional funding could be required in the future if increases in cost estimates exceed the amounts held in the applicable trusts, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. as more fully discussed in note 20 of our notes to consolidated financial statements, in september 2015 we entered into consent decrees with federal and state regulators that, when effective, will require us to provide meaningful additional financial assurance for the estimated costs of closure and post-closure care of substantially all of our phosphogypsum management systems (excluding those acquired as part of the cf phosphate assets acquisition). after the consent decrees become effective, we will deposit cash, in the total amount of $630 million into two trust funds, corresponding to a material portion of our estimated costs of closure and post-closure care. we will also issue a $50 million letter of credit in 2017 to further support our financial assurance obligations under one of the consent decrees, and we have agreed to guarantee the difference between the amounts held in each trust fund (including earnings) and the estimated closure and long-term care costs. compliance with the financial assurance requirements included in these consent decrees, which are more burdensome than the current state requirements, will satisfy substantially all of our state financial assurance obligations (excluding those relating to the facilities acquired as part of the cf phosphate assets acquisition). however, there can be no assurance that the consent decrees, which are subject to court approval, will be approved or that they will be approved in substantially the form in which they were submitted as to financial assurance. if additional requirements are imposed, such requirements could impose additional expense on us or utilize a larger portion of our available liquidity. with respect to our facilities other than those acquired as part of the cf phosphate assets acquisition, our state financial assurance requirements have historically been satisfied without the need for any expenditure of corporate funds to the extent our financial statements meet certain balance sheet and income statement financial strength tests. in the event that the consent decrees discussed above do not become effective, then in the event that we are unable to satisfy the applicable state financial strength tests, we must utilize alternative methods of complying with the financial assurance requirements or could be subject to enforcement proceedings brought by relevant government agencies. potential alternative methods of compliance include negotiating a consent agreement that imposes alternative financial assurance or other conditions or, alternatively, providing 29 table of contents credit support in the form of cash escrows or trusts, surety bonds from insurance companies, letters of credit from banks, or other forms of financial instruments or collateral to satisfy the financial assurance requirements. use of these alternative means of financial assurance imposes additional expense on us. some of them, such as letters of credit, also use a portion of our available liquidity. other alternative means of financial assurance, such as surety bonds, may in some cases require collateral and generally require us to obtain a discharge of the bonds or to post additional collateral (typically in the form of cash or letters of credit) at the request of the issuer of the bonds. collateral that is required may be in many forms including letters of credit or other financial instruments that utilize a portion of our available liquidity, or in the form of assets such as real estate, which reduces our flexibility to manage or sell assets. in the past, we have also not always been able to satisfy applicable financial strength tests, and in the future, it is possible that we will not be able to pass the applicable financial strength tests, negotiate or receive approval of consent decrees, establish escrow or trust accounts or obtain letters of credit, surety bonds or other financial instruments on acceptable terms and conditions or at a reasonable cost, or that the form and/or cost of compliance could increase, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. we have included additional discussion about financial assurance requirements under off balance sheet arrangements and obligations other commercial commitments in our management's analysis. the other environmental regulations to which we are subject may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition to permitting and financial assurance requirements, we are subject to numerous other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the u.s., canada, china, brazil and other countries where we operate. these laws and regulations govern a wide range of matters, including environmental controls, land reclamation, discharges to air and water and remediation of hazardous substance releases. they significantly affect our operating activities as well as the level of our operating costs and capital expenditures. in some international jurisdictions, environmental laws change frequently and it may be difficult for us to determine if we are in compliance with all material environmental laws at any given time. we are, and may in the future be, involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that could be material to us. these proceedings include legacy matters arising from activities of our predecessor companies and from facilities and businesses that we have never owned or operated. we have in the past been, are currently and may in the future be subject to legal and regulatory proceedings that could be material to our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. joint ventures in which we participate could also become subject to these sorts of proceedings. these proceedings may be brought by the government or private parties and may arise out of a variety of matters, including: allegations by the government or private parties that we have violated the permitting, financial assurance or other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations discussed above. for example, in connection with the consent decrees referred to above we have agreed, among other things, to pay cash penalties of approximately $8 million in the aggregate, and to modify certain operating practices and undertake certain capital improvement projects over a period of several years that are expected to result in capital expenditures likely to exceed $200 million in the aggregate. we are also involved in other proceedings alleging that, or to review whether, we have violated environmental laws in the united states and brazil. other environmental, health and safety matters, including alleged personal injury, wrongful death, complaints that our operations are adversely impacting nearby farms and other business operations, other property damage, subsidence from mining operations, natural resource damages and other damage to the environment, arising out of operations, including accidents. for example, several actions were initiated by the government and private parties related to a release of phosphoric acid process wastewater at our riverview, florida facility during a 2004 hurricane. antitrust, commercial, tax (including tax audits) and other disputes. for example, we were one of a number of defendants in multiple class-action lawsuits, in which the plaintiffs sought unspecified amounts of damages including treble damages, alleging that we and other defendants conspired to, among other matters, fix the price at which potash was sold in the united states, allocated market shares and customers and fraudulently concealed their anticompetitive conduct. in january 2013, we settled these class action antitrust lawsuits for an aggregate of $43.8 million. the legal and regulatory proceedings to which we are currently or may in the future be subject can, depending on the circumstances, result in monetary damage awards, fines, penalties, other liabilities, injunctions or other court or administrative rulings that interrupt, impede or otherwise materially affect our business operations, and/or criminal sanctions. 30 table of contents among other environmental laws, the u.s. comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act ( cercla ) imposes liability, including for cleanup costs, without regard to fault or to the legality of a party's conduct, on certain categories of persons, including current and former owners and operators of a site and parties who are considered to have contributed to the release of hazardous substances into the environment. under cercla, or various u.s. state analogs, a party may, under certain circumstances, be required to bear more than its proportional share of cleanup costs at a site where it has liability if payments cannot be obtained from other responsible parties. as a crop nutrient company working with chemicals and other hazardous substances, we will periodically incur liabilities and cleanup costs, under cercla and other environmental laws, with regard to our current or former facilities, adjacent or nearby third-party facilities or offsite disposal locations. pending and potential legal and regulatory proceedings may arise out of our present activities, including operations at current facilities. they may also arise out of past activities by us, our predecessor companies and subsidiaries that our predecessors have sold. these past activities were in some cases at facilities that we and our subsidiaries no longer own or operate and may have never owned or operated. settlements of legal and regulatory matters frequently require court approval. in the event a court were not to approve of a settlement, it is possible that we and the other party or parties to the matter might not be able to settle it on terms that were acceptable to all parties or that we could be required to accept more stringent terms of settlement than required by the opposing parties. we have included additional information with respect to pending legal and regulatory proceedings in note 20 of our notes to consolidated financial statements and in this report in part i, item 3, legal proceedings . these legal and regulatory proceedings involve inherent uncertainties and could negatively impact our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. the permitting, financial assurance and other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations to which we are subject may become more stringent over time. this could increase the effects on us of these laws and regulations, and the increased effects could be material. continued government and public emphasis on environmental, health and safety issues in the u.s., canada, china, brazil, paraguay and other countries where we operate can be expected to result in requirements that apply to us and our operations that are more stringent than those that are described above and elsewhere in this report. these more stringent requirements may include among other matters increased levels of future investments and expenditures for environmental controls at ongoing operations which will be charged against income from future operations, increased levels of the financial assurance requirements to which we are subject, increased efforts or costs to obtain permits or denial of permits, other new or interpretations of existing statutes or regulations that impose new or more stringent restrictions or liabilities, including liabilities under cercla or similar statutes, including restrictions or liabilities related to elevated levels of naturally-occurring radiation that arise from disturbing the ground in the course of mining activities, and other matters that could increase our expenses, capital requirements or liabilities or adversely affect our business, liquidity or financial condition. in addition, to the extent restrictions imposed in countries where our competitors operate, such as china, india, former soviet union countries or morocco, are less stringent than in the countries where we operate, our competitors could gain cost or other competitive advantages over us. these effects could be material. among other matters, there are several ongoing initiatives relating to nutrient discharges. new regulatory restrictions from these initiatives could have a material effect on either us or our customers. for example: the florida department of environmental protection ( fdep ) has adopted state nutrient criteria rules ( florida nnc rule ) to supplant the requirements of numeric water quality standards for the discharge of nitrogen and/or phosphorus into florida lakes and streams that were adopted by epa in december 2010 (the nnc rule ). while epa has withdrawn the federal nnc rule and the fdep criteria now are effective, the possibility remains that still-pending litigation relating to the nnc rule or future litigation could challenge epa's withdrawal or the effectiveness of the florida nnc rule. subject to further litigation developments, we expect that compliance with the requirements of nutrient criteria rules could adversely affect our florida phosphate operations, require significant capital expenditures or substantially increase our annual operating expenses. the gulf coast ecosystem restoration task force, established by executive order of the president and comprised of five gulf states and eleven federal agencies, has delivered a final strategy for long-term ecosystem restoration for the gulf coast in 2016. the strategy calls for, among other matters, reduction of the flow of excess nutrients into the gulf through state nutrient reduction frameworks, new nutrient reduction approaches and reduction of agricultural 31 table of contents and urban sources of excess nutrients. implementation of the strategy will require legislative or regulatory action at the state level. we cannot predict what the requirements of any such legislative or regulatory action could be or whether or how it would affect us or our customers. in march 2012, several nongovernmental organizations brought a lawsuit in federal court against epa, seeking to require it to establish numeric nutrient criteria for nitrogen and phosphorous in the mississippi river basin and the gulf of mexico. epa had previously denied a 2008 petition seeking such standards. on may 30, 2012, the court granted our motion to intervene in this lawsuit. on september 20, 2013 the court held that epa had to respond directly to the environmental organizations' petition as to whether numeric nutrient criteria for the mississippi river basin and gulf of mexico are necessary under the clean water act, but that epa had the discretion to rely on administrative, policy and other non-technical factors in responding to the petition. epa appealed the district court decision, and the fifth circuit court of appeals issued a decision in april 2015, holding in substantial part that epa was not obligated to make a determination that numeric nutrient criteria are or are not necessary, provided epa gives a reasonable explanation for its conclusion. the court of appeals remanded the case to the district court to decide whether epa can meet that burden. on november 20, 2015, epa filed a motion with the district court seeking summary judgment and on january 14, 2016, non-state intervenors including mosaic filed a brief supporting epa's motion. in the event that epa were to adopt numeric nutrient criteria for the mississippi river basin and the gulf of mexico, we cannot predict what these requirements would be or the effects they would have on us or our customers. we continue to monitor proposed regulations and policies prompted by the 2014 algal bloom in lake erie. we cannot predict the effects such initiatives might have to our operations or those of our customers. in addition, in april 2014 epa and the u.s. army corps of engineers jointly issued a proposed rule that would redefine the scope of waters regulated under the federal clean water act. the final rule was issued in june 2015 and became effective in august 2015, but has been challenged through numerous lawsuits. in october 2015, the u.s. court of appeals for the sixth circuit issued an order staying the effectiveness of the final rule until after the legal validity of the regulation is resolved. we believe the new definition would expand the types and extent of water resources regulated under federal law, thereby potentially expanding our permitting and reporting requirements, increasing our costs of compliance, including costs associated with wetlands and stream mitigation, lengthening the time necessary to obtain permits, and potentially restricting our ability to mine certain of our phosphate rock reserves. these effects could be material. regulatory restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions and climate change regulations in the united states, canada or elsewhere could adversely affect us, and these effects could be material. various governmental initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions are under way or under consideration around the world. these initiatives could restrict our operating activities, require us to make changes in our operating activities that would increase our operating costs, reduce our efficiency or limit our output, require us to make capital improvements to our facilities, increase our energy, raw material and transportation costs or limit their availability, or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, and these effects could be material to us. governmental greenhouse gas emission initiatives include, among others , the december 2015 agreement (the paris agreement ) which was the outcome of the 21 st session of the conference of the parties under the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc). nearly 200 nations including the united states and canada signed the paris agreement, which sets out a goal of limiting the average rise in temperatures for this century to below 2 degrees celsius. each signatory is expected to develop its own plan (referred to as a nationally determined contribution, or ndc ) for reaching that goal. the united states submitted its intended ndc, ahead of the paris agreement, in march 2015. the ndc aims to achieve, by 2025, an economy-wide target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 26-28% below its 2005 level. it also aims to use best efforts to reduce its emissions by 28%. the u.s. target covers all greenhouse gases (ghgs) that were a part of the 2014 inventory of greenhouse gas emissions and sinks. various legislative or regulatory initiatives relating to greenhouse gases have been adopted or considered by the u.s. congress, epa or various states. those already adopted may be used to implement the united states' ndc and as implementation of the paris agreement proceeds, more stringent laws and regulations may be enacted to accomplish the goals set out in its ndc. it is possible that future legislation or regulation addressing climate change, including in response to the paris agreement, could adversely affect our operating activities, energy, raw material and transportation costs, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, and these effects could be material. 32 table of contents canada remains committed to addressing climate change. although the federal government has not released details regarding specific new targets following execution of the paris agreement, it has announced that it will be establishing national targets and ensuring that canadian provinces and territories have the flexibility to design their own carbon pricing policies. our saskatchewan potash facilities continue to work with fertilizer canada and environment canada on a sector based approach. in addition, the province of saskatchewan, in which our canadian potash mines are located, has passed legislation to facilitate the development and administration of climate change regulation in saskatchewan by the province rather than the federal government. this legislation is not yet effective, but key elements under consideration by the province include establishing a provincial greenhouse gas emission reduction target, and compliance mechanisms that would provide flexibility for regulated emitters to meet their greenhouse gas reduction obligations. we continue to monitor developments relating to this legislation, as well as the potential future effect on our operating activities, energy, raw material and transportation costs, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources. prior to the paris agreement, international negotiations concerning greenhouse gas emission reductions and other responses to climate change were underway, but final obligations in the post-kyoto protocol period after 2012 remained undefined. any new international agreements addressing climate change could adversely affect our operating activities, energy, raw material and transportation costs, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, and these effects could be material. in addition, to the extent climate change restrictions imposed in countries where our competitors operate, such as china, india, former soviet union countries or morocco, are less stringent than in the united states or canada, our competitors could gain cost or other competitive advantages over us. future climate change could adversely affect us. the prospective impact of climate change on our operations and those of our customers and farmers remains uncertain. scientists have hypothesized that the impacts of climate change could include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperature levels and that these changes could be severe. these impacts could vary by geographic location. at the present time, we cannot predict the prospective impact of climate change on our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, or whether any such effects could be material to us. some of our competitors and potential competitors have greater resources than we do, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage and adversely affect our sales and profitability. these competitors include state-owned and government-subsidized entities in other countries. we compete with a number of producers throughout the world, including state-owned and government-subsidized entities. some of these entities may have greater total resources than we do, and may be less dependent on earnings from crop nutrients sales than we are. in addition, some of these entities may have access to lower cost or government-subsidized natural gas supplies, placing us at a competitive disadvantage. furthermore, certain governments as owners of some of our competitors may be willing to accept lower prices and profitability on their products in order to support domestic employment or other political or social goals. to the extent other producers of crop nutrients enjoy competitive advantages or are willing to accept lower profit levels, the price of our products, our sales volumes and our profits may be adversely affected. we do not own a controlling equity interest in our non-consolidated companies, some of which are foreign companies, and therefore our operating results and cash flow may be materially affected by how the governing boards and majority owners operate such businesses. there may also be limitations on monetary distributions from these companies that are outside of our control. together, these factors may lower our equity earnings or cash flow from such businesses and negatively impact our results of operations. we recently entered into an agreement to form mwspc, a joint venture to develop a mine and chemical complexes for an estimated $8 billion that is expected to produce phosphate fertilizers and other downstream products in the kingdom of saudi arabia. we have a 25% interest in the joint venture and expect our cash investment will be up to $850 million , funded over a four-year period. the success of this joint venture will depend on, among other matters, the ability of mwspc to obtain additional planned funding in acceptable amounts and upon acceptable terms, the timely development and commencement of operations of production facilities in the kingdom of saudi arabia, the future success of current plans for the development and operation of mwspc, including the availability and affordability of necessary resources and materials and access to appropriate infrastructure, and any future changes in those plans, as well as the general economic and political stability of the region. we also hold minority ownership interests in a joint venture that owns and operates a phosphate rock mine and in other companies that are not controlled by us. we expect that the operations and results of mwspc will be, and the operations or 33 table of contents results of some of the other joint ventures or companies are, significant to us, and their operations can affect our earnings. because we do not control these companies either at the board or stockholder levels and because local laws in foreign jurisdictions and contractual obligations may place restrictions on monetary distributions by these companies, we cannot ensure that these companies will operate efficiently, pay dividends, or generally follow the desires of our management by virtue of our board or stockholder representation. as a result, these companies may contribute less than anticipated to our earnings and cash flow, negatively impacting our results of operations and liquidity. strikes or other forms of work stoppage or slowdown could disrupt our business and lead to increased costs. our financial performance is dependent on a reliable and productive work force. a significant portion of our workforce, and that of the joint ventures in which we participate, is covered by collective bargaining agreements with unions. unsuccessful contract negotiations or adverse labor relations could result in strikes or slowdowns. any disruptions may decrease our production and sales or impose additional costs to resolve disputes. the risk of adverse labor relations may increase as our profitability increases because labor unions' expectations and demands generally rise at those times. accidents occurring in the course of our operating activities could result in significant liabilities, interruptions or shutdowns of facilities or the need for significant safety or other expenditures. we engage in mining and industrial activities that can result in serious accidents. if our safety procedures are not effective, or if an accident occurs, we could be subject to liabilities arising out of personal injuries or death, our operations could be interrupted and we might have to shut down or abandon affected facilities. accidents could cause us to expend significant amounts to remediate safety issues or to repair damaged facilities. for example: some of our mines are subject to potential damage from earthquakes. the excavation of mines can result in potential seismic events or can increase the likelihood or potential severity of a seismic event. the rise and fall of water levels, such as those arising from the brine inflows and our remediation activities at our esterhazy mine, can also result in or increase the likelihood or potential severity of a seismic event. our esterhazy mine has experienced minor seismic events from time to time. a significant seismic event at one of our mines could result in serious injuries or death, or damage to or flooding of the mine or, in the extreme scenario, cause us to change our mining process or abandon the mine. our underground potash shaft mines are subject to risk from fire. in the event of a fire, if our emergency procedures are not successful, we could have significant injuries or deaths. in addition, fire at one of our underground shaft mines could halt our operations at the affected mine while we investigate the origin of the fire or for longer periods for remedial work or otherwise. our underground potash shaft mines at esterhazy and colonsay, saskatchewan and carlsbad, new mexico are subject to risk from fire. any failure of our safety procedures in the future could result in serious injuries or death, or shutdowns, which could result in significant liabilities and/or impact on the financial performance of our potash business, including a possible material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we handle significant quantities of ammonia at several of our facilities. if our safety procedures are not effective, an accident involving our ammonia operations could result in serious injuries or death, or result in the shutdown of our facilities. we produce ammonia at our faustina, louisiana phosphate concentrates plant, use ammonia in significant quantities at all of our florida and louisiana phosphates concentrates plants and store ammonia at some of our distribution facilities. for our florida phosphates concentrates plants, ammonia is received at terminals in tampa and transported by pipelines and rail to our facilities. our ammonia is generally stored and transported at high pressures. an accident could occur that could result in serious injuries or death, or the evacuation of areas near an accident. an accident could also result in property damage or the shutdown of our florida or louisiana phosphates concentrates plants, the ammonia terminals, pipelines or rail lines serving those plants or our other ammonia storage and handling facilities. as a result, an accident involving ammonia could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we also use or produce other hazardous or volatile chemicals at some of our facilities. if our safety procedures are not effective, an accident involving these other hazardous or volatile chemicals could result in serious injuries or death, or result in the shutdown of our facilities. 34 table of contents we use sulfuric acid in the production of concentrated phosphates in our florida and louisiana operations. some of our florida and louisiana facilities produce fluorosilicic acid, which is a hazardous chemical, for resale to third parties. we also use or produce other hazardous or volatile chemicals at some of our facilities. an accident involving any of these chemicals could result in serious injuries or death, or evacuation of areas near an accident. an accident could also result in property damage or shutdown of our facilities, or cause us to expend significant amounts to remediate safety issues or to repair damaged facilities. as a result, an accident involving any of these chemicals could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. deliberate, malicious acts, including terrorism and cyber attacks, could damage our facilities, disrupt our operations or injure employees, contractors, customers or the public and result in liability to us. intentional acts of destruction could hinder our sales or production and disrupt our supply chain. our facilities could be damaged or destroyed, reducing our operational production capacity and requiring us to repair or replace our facilities at substantial cost. employees, contractors and the public could suffer substantial physical injury for which we could be liable. governmental authorities may impose security or other requirements that could make our operations more difficult or costly. the consequences of any such actions could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by changing antitrust laws to which we are subject. increases in crop nutrient prices can increase the scrutiny to which we are subject under these laws. we are subject to antitrust and competition laws in various countries throughout the world. we cannot predict how these laws or their interpretation, administration and enforcement will change over time. changes in antitrust laws globally, or in their interpretation, administration or enforcement, may limit our existing or future operations and growth, or the operations of canpotex, which serves as an export association for our potash business. increases in crop nutrient prices have in the past resulted in increased scrutiny of the crop nutrient industry under antitrust and competition laws and can increase the risk that these laws could be interpreted, administered or enforced in a manner that could affect our operating practices or impose liability on us in a manner that could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by other changes in laws resulting from increases in food and crop nutrient prices. increases in prices for, among other things, food, fuel and crop inputs (including crop nutrients) have in the past been the subject of significant discussion by various governmental bodies and officials throughout the world. in response to increases, it is possible that governments in one or more of the locations in which we operate or where we or our competitors sell our products could take actions that could affect us. such actions could include, among other matters, changes in governmental policies relating to agriculture and biofuels (including changes in subsidy levels), price controls, tariffs, windfall profits taxes or export or import taxes. any such actions could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our competitive position could be adversely affected if we are unable to participate in continuing industry consolidation. most of our products are readily available from a number of competitors, and price and other competition in the crop nutrient industry is intense. in addition, crop nutrient production facilities and distribution activities frequently benefit from economies of scale. as a result, particularly during pronounced cyclical troughs, the crop nutrient industry has a long history of consolidation. mosaic itself is the result of a number of industry consolidations. we expect consolidation among crop nutrient producers could continue. our competitive position could suffer to the extent we are not able to expand our own resources either through consolidations, acquisitions, joint ventures or partnerships. in the future, we may not be able to find suitable companies to combine with, assets to purchase or joint venture or partnership opportunities to pursue. even if we are able to locate desirable opportunities, we may not be able to enter into transactions on economically acceptable terms. if we do not successfully participate in continuing industry consolidation, our ability to compete successfully could be adversely affected and result in the loss of customers or an uncompetitive cost structure, which could adversely affect our sales and profitability. our strategy for managing market risk may not be effective. our businesses are affected by fluctuations in market prices for our products, the purchase price of natural gas, ammonia and sulfur consumed in operations, freight and shipping costs and foreign currency exchange rates. we periodically enter into derivatives and forward purchase contracts to mitigate some of these risks. however, our strategy may not be successful in minimizing our exposure to these fluctuations. see market risk in our management's analysis and note 13 of our notes to consolidated financial statements that is incorporated by reference in this report in part ii, item 8. 35 table of contents a shortage or unavailability of railcars, tugs, barges and ships for carrying our products and the raw materials we use in our business could result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of production or sales and higher transportation or equipment costs. we rely heavily upon truck, rail, tug, barge and ocean freight transportation to obtain the raw materials we need and to deliver our products to our customers. in addition, the cost of transportation is an important part of the final sale price of our products. finding affordable and dependable transportation is important in obtaining our raw materials and to supply our customers. higher costs for these transportation services or an interruption or slowdown due to factors including high demand, high fuel prices, labor disputes, layoffs or other factors affecting the availability of qualified transportation workers, adverse weather or other environmental events, or changes to rail, barge or ocean freight systems, could negatively affect our ability to produce our products or deliver them to our customers, which could affect our performance and results of operations. strong demand for grain and other products and a strong world economy increase the demand for and reduce the availability of transportation, both domestically and internationally. shortages of railcars, barges and ocean transport for carrying product and increased transit time may result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of sales and higher equipment and transportation costs. in addition, during periods when the shipping industry has a shortage of ships the substantial time needed to build new ships prevents rapid market response. delays and missed shipments due to transportation shortages, including vessels, barges, railcars and trucks, could result in customer dissatisfaction or loss of sales potential, which could negatively affect our performance and results of operations. additionally, the long-term cf ammonia supply agreement under which we have agreed to purchase approximately 545,000 to 725,000 tonnes of ammonia per year during a term that may extend until december 31, 2032 at a price to be determined by a formula based on the prevailing price of u.s. natural gas, will become effective in 2017. we will be obligated to provide for transportation of the ammonia under the agreement, and if we fail to take the required minimum annual amount, cf may elect either to require us to make payment of liquidated damages or to terminate the agreement. payment of significant liquidated damages or an election by cf to terminate the agreement could adversely affect our business. a lack of customers' access to credit can adversely affect their ability to purchase our products. some of our customers require access to credit to purchase our products. a lack of available credit to customers in one or more countries, due to global or local economic conditions or for other reasons, could adversely affect demand for crop nutrients. we extend trade credit to our customers and guarantee the financing that some of our customers use to purchase our products. our results of operations may be adversely affected if these customers are unable to repay the trade credit from us or financing from their banks. increases in prices for crop nutrient, other agricultural inputs and grain may increase this risk. we extend trade credit to our customers in the united states and throughout the world, in some cases for extended periods of time. in brazil, where there are fewer third-party financing sources available to farmers, we also have several programs under which we guarantee customers' financing from financial institutions that they use to purchase our products. as our exposure to longer trade credit extended throughout the world and use of guarantees in brazil increases, we are increasingly exposed to the risk that some of our customers will not pay us or the amounts we have guaranteed. additionally, we become increasingly exposed to risk due to weather and crop growing conditions, fluctuations in commodity prices or foreign currencies, and other factors that influence the price, supply and demand for agricultural commodities. significant defaults by our customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. increases in prices for crop nutrients increase the dollar amount of our sales to customers. the larger dollar value of our customers' purchases may also lead them to request longer trade credit from us and/or increase their need for us to guarantee their financing of our products. either factor could increase the amount of our exposure to the risk that our customers may be unable to repay the trade credit from us or financing from their banks that we guarantee. in addition, increases in prices for other agricultural inputs and grain may increase the working capital requirements, indebtedness and other liabilities of our customers, increase the risk that they will default on the trade credit from us or their financing that we guarantee, and decrease the likelihood that we will be able to collect from our customers in the event of their default. 36 table of contents tax rules governing the cargill transaction limited our ability to execute certain actions for a period of time following the cargill transaction and, if our procedures for compliance with those restrictions were ineffective, notwithstanding the irs ruling and tax opinion issued to cargill in connection with the cargill transaction, we could owe significant tax-related indemnification liabilities to cargill. the irs issued a ruling to the effect that the split-off that was part of the cargill transaction would be tax-free to cargill and its stockholders, and in connection with the completion of the cargill transaction, cargill received a tax opinion relating to certain tax consequences of the cargill transaction. notwithstanding the irs ruling and tax opinion, however, the split-off and debt exchanges could be taxable to cargill and its stockholders under certain circumstances. therefore, we and cargill agreed to tax-related restrictions and indemnities set forth in a tax agreement related to the cargill transaction, under which we were restricted or deterred from taking certain actions until may 26, 2013, including (i) redeeming or purchasing our stock in excess of agreed-upon amounts; (ii) issuing any equity securities in excess of agreed upon amounts; (iii) approving or recommending a third party's acquisition of us; (iv) permitting any merger or other combination of mosaic or mos holdings; and (v) entering into an agreement for the purchase of any interest in mosaic or mos holdings, subject to certain exceptions. we agreed to indemnify cargill for taxes and tax-related losses imposed on cargill as a result of the split-off and/or debt exchange failing to qualify as tax-free, if the taxes and related losses are attributable to, arise out of or result from certain prohibited acts or to any breach of, or inaccuracy in, any representation, warranty or covenant made by us in the tax agreement referred to above. the taxes and tax-related losses of cargill would be material if these transactions fail to qualify as tax-free, and, while we do not believe we engaged in any prohibited acts during the relevant period, if our procedures for avoiding any of these prohibited acts or breaches were ineffective, this indemnity would result in material liabilities from us to cargill that could have a material adverse effect on us. for a further discussion of the restrictions and indemnities set forth in the agreements related to the cargill transaction, please see note 17 to our notes to consolidated financial statements. provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. our restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. these provisions include the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent and the inability of our stockholders to request that our board of directors or chairman of our board call a special meeting of stockholders. we are also subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. in general, section 203 prohibits a publicly held delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years from the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the interested stockholder attained this status with the approval of the board of directors or unless the business combination was approved in a prescribed manner. a business combination includes mergers, asset sales and other transactions resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder. subject to exceptions, an interested stockholder is a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns, or within three years owned, 15% or more of the corporation's voting stock. this statute could prohibit or delay the accomplishment of mergers or other takeover or change in control attempts with respect to us and, accordingly, may discourage attempts to acquire us. these provisions apply not only when they may protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics but even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in our best interests or those of our stockholders. our success will continue to depend on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified and motivated employees. we believe our continued success depends on the collective abilities and efforts of our employees. like many businesses, a significant number of our employees, including some of our most highly skilled employees with specialized expertise in potash and phosphates operations, will be approaching retirement age throughout the next decade and beyond. in addition, we compete for a talented workforce with other businesses, particularly within the mining and chemicals industries in general and the crop nutrients industry in particular. our expansion plans are highly dependent on our ability to attract, retain and train highly qualified and motivated employees who are essential to the success of our ongoing operations as well as to our expansion plans. if we were to be unsuccessful in attracting, retaining and training the employees we require, our ongoing operations and expansion plans could be materially and adversely affected. 37 table of contents future product or technological innovation could affect our business. future product or technological innovation such as the development of seeds that require less crop nutrients, the development of substitutes for our products or developments in the application of crop nutrients, if they occur, could have the potential to adversely affect the demand for our products and our results of operations, liquidity and capital resources. the success of our strategic initiatives depends on our ability to effectively manage these initiatives, and to successfully integrate and grow acquired businesses. we have significant ongoing strategic initiatives including, principally our plans to expand the annual production capacity of our potash business and mwspc. these strategic initiatives involve capital and other expenditures of several billions of dollars over a number of years and require effective project management and, in the case of strategic acquisitions, successful integration. to the extent the processes we (or, for the mwspc, we together with ma'aden and sabic) put in place to manage these initiatives or integrate and grow acquired businesses are not effective, our capital expenditure and other costs may exceed our expectations or the benefits we expect from these initiatives might not be fully realized. we may fail to fully realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings of one of our long-term cf ammonia supply agreements. we use ammonia as a raw material in the production of our concentrated phosphate products. under our long-term cf ammonia supply agreement that will commence in 2017, we have agreed to purchase approximately 545,000 to 725,000 tonnes of ammonia per year during a term that may extend until december 31, 2032 at a price to be determined by a formula based on the prevailing price of u.s. natural gas. the success of this agreement will depend, in part, on our ability to realize cost savings from the agreement's natural gas based pricing. if the price of natural gas rises materially or the market price for ammonia falls outside of the range we currently anticipate over the term of the agreement, we may not realize the cost benefit we currently anticipate over that period, or the cost of our ammonia under this agreement could be a competitive disadvantage. in addition, our ability to realize these anticipated benefits and cost savings is subject to certain additional risks including whether cf successfully performs its obligations under the agreement over the life of its commitment and our ability to take delivery of the required minimum annual amount of ammonia over the life of our commitment. we discuss the risks associated with our obligations under this agreement in more detail earlier in this risk factors section. cyber attacks could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse impact on our business. as a global company, we utilize and rely upon information technology systems in many aspects of our business, including internal and external communications and the management of our accounting, financial, production and supply chain functions. as we become more dependent on information technologies to conduct our operations, and as the number and sophistication of cyber attacks increase, the risks associated with cyber security increase. these risks apply both to us, and to third parties on whose systems we rely for the conduct of our business. failure to effectively anticipate, prevent, detect and recover from the increasing number and sophistication of cyber attacks could result in theft, loss or misuse of, or damage or modification of our information, and cause disruptions or delays in our business, reputational damage and third-party claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 41 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we have included a discussion about market risks under market risk in the management's analysis that is included in this report in part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . this information is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 21 risk factors. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the risks and uncertainties described below. our esterhazy mine has had an inflow of salt saturated brine for more than 30 years. since december 1985, we have had inflows of salt saturated brine into our esterhazy, saskatchewan mine. over the past century, several potash mines experiencing water inflow problems have flooded. in order to control brine inflows at esterhazy, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, expenditures, certain of which, due to their nature, have been capitalized, while others have been charged to expense. 21 table of contents at various times, we experience changing amounts and patterns of brine inflows at the esterhazy mine. periodically, some of these inflows have exceeded available pumping capacity. if that were to continue for several months without abatement, it could exceed our available storage capacity and ability to effectively manage the brine inflow. this could adversely affect production at the esterhazy mine. the brine inflow is variable, resulting in both net inflows (the rate of inflow is more than the amount we are pumping out of the mine) and net outflows (when we are pumping more brine out of the mine than the rate of inflow). there can be no assurance that: our pumping, surface storage, underground storage or injection well capacities for brine will continue to be sufficient, or that the pumping, grouting and other measures that we use to manage the inflows at the esterhazy mine will continue to be effective; there will not be a disruption in the supply of calcium chloride, which is a primary material used to reduce or prevent the flow of incoming brine; our estimates of the volumes of net inflows or net outflows of brine, or storage capacity for brine at the esterhazy mine, are accurate; the volumes of the brine inflows will not fluctuate from time to time, the rate of the brine inflows will not be greater than our prior experience or current assumptions, changes in inflow patterns will not adversely affect our ability to locate and manage the inflows, or that any such fluctuations, increases or changes would not be material; and the expenditures to control the inflows will be consistent with our prior experience or future estimates. from time to time, new or improved technology becomes available to facilitate our remediation of the inflows, such as when horizontal drilling techniques were developed and refined. taking advantage of these new or improved technologies may require significant capital expenditures and/or may increase our costs of remediation. it is possible that the costs of remedial efforts at esterhazy may further increase in the future and that such an increase could be material, or, in the extreme scenario, that the brine inflows, risk to employees or remediation costs may increase to a level which would cause us to change our mining processes or abandon the mines. see key factors that can affect results of operations and financial condition and potash net sales and gross margin in our management's analysis, which is incorporated herein by reference, for a discussion of costs, risks and other information relating to the brine inflows. due to the ongoing brine inflow at esterhazy, subject to exceptions that are limited in scope and amount, we are unable to obtain insurance coverage for underground operations for water incursion problems. our mines at colonsay, saskatchewan, and carlsbad, new mexico, are also subject to the risks of inflow of water as a result of our shaft mining operations. our operating results are highly dependent upon and fluctuate based upon business and economic conditions and governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry where we or our customers operate. these factors are outside of our control and may significantly affect our profitability. our operating results are highly dependent upon business and economic conditions and governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, which we cannot control. the agricultural products business can be affected by a number of factors. the most important of these factors, for u.s. markets, are: weather patterns and field conditions (particularly during periods of traditionally high crop nutrients consumption); quantities of crop nutrients imported to and exported from north america; current and projected grain inventories and prices, which are heavily influenced by u.s. exports and world-wide grain markets; and u.s. governmental policies, including farm and biofuel policies, which may directly or indirectly influence the number of acres planted, the level of grain inventories, the mix of crops planted or crop prices or otherwise negatively affect our operating results. international market conditions, which are also outside of our control, may also significantly influence our operating results. the international market for crop nutrients is influenced by such factors as the relative value of the u.s. dollar and its impact upon the cost of importing crop nutrients, foreign agricultural policies, including subsidy policies, the existence of, or changes in, import or foreign currency exchange barriers in certain foreign markets, changes in the hard currency demands of certain countries and other regulatory policies of foreign governments, as well as the laws and policies of the united states affecting foreign trade and investment. 22 table of contents our most important products are global commodities, and we face intense global competition from other crop nutrient producers that can affect our prices and volumes. our most important products are concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, including diammonium phosphate, or dap, monoammonium phosphate, or map, microessentials and muriate of potash, or mop. we sell most of our dap, map and mop in the form of global commodities. our sales of these products face intense global competition from other crop nutrient producers. changes in competitors' production or shifts in their marketing focus have in the past significantly affected both the prices at which we sell our products and the volumes that we sell, and are likely to continue to do so in the future. competitors are more likely to increase their production at times when world agricultural and crop nutrient markets are strong, and to focus on sales into regions where their returns are highest. increases in the global supply of dap, map and mop or competitors' increased sales into regions in which we have significant sales could adversely affect our prices and volumes. competitors and potential new entrants in the markets for both concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and potash have in recent years expanded capacity, or begun, or announced plans, to expand capacity or build new facilities. the extent to which current global or local economic and financial conditions, changes in global or local economic and financial conditions, or other factors may cause delays or cancellation of some of these ongoing or planned projects, or result in the acceleration of existing or new projects, is unclear. in addition, the level of exports by producers of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients in china depends to a significant extent on chinese government actions to curb exports through, among other measures, prohibitive export taxes at times when the government believes it desirable to assure ample domestic supplies of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients to stimulate grain and oilseed production. in addition, some of our competitors who are expanding their potash production capacity include other members of canpotex. canpotex members' respective shares of canpotex sales is based upon the members' respective proven peaking capacity for producing potash. when a canpotex member expands its production capacity, the new capacity is added to that member's proven peaking capacity based on a proving run at the maximum production level. alternatively, after january 2017, canpotex members may elect to rely on an independent engineering firm and approved protocols to calculate their proven peaking capacity. antitrust and competition laws prohibit the members of canpotex from coordinating their production decisions, including the timing of their respective proving runs. worldwide potash production levels during these proving runs could exceed then-current market demand, resulting in an oversupply of potash and lower potash prices. we cannot accurately predict when or whether competitors' or new entrants' ongoing or planned capacity expansions or new facilities will be completed, the timing of competitors' tests to prove peaking capacity for canpotex purposes, the cumulative effect of these and recently completed expansions, the impact of future decisions by the chinese government on the level of chinese exports of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, or the effects of these or other actions by our competitors on the prices for our products or the volumes that we will be able to sell. our crop nutrients and other products are subject to price and demand volatility resulting from periodic imbalances of supply and demand, which may cause our results of operations to fluctuate. historically, the market for crop nutrients has been cyclical, and prices and demand for our products have fluctuated to a significant extent, particularly for phosphates and, to a lesser extent, potash. periods of high demand, increasing profits and high capacity utilization tend to lead to new plant investment and increased production. this growth increases supply until the market is over-saturated, leading to declining prices and declining capacity utilization until the cycle repeats. as a result, crop nutrient prices and volumes have been volatile. this price and volume volatility may cause our results of operations to fluctuate and potentially deteriorate. the price at which we sell our crop nutrient products and our sales volumes could fall in the event of industry oversupply conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in contrast, high prices may lead our customers and farmers to delay purchasing decisions in anticipation of future lower prices, thus impacting our sales volumes. due to reduced market demand, depressed agricultural economic conditions and other factors, we and our predecessors have at various times suspended or reduced production at some of our facilities. the extent to which we utilize available capacity at our facilities will cause fluctuations in our results of operations, as we will incur costs for any temporary or indefinite shutdowns of our facilities and lower sales tend to lead to higher fixed costs as a percentage of sales. 23 table of contents variations in crop nutrient application rates may exacerbate the cyclicality of the crop nutrient markets. farmers are able to maximize their economic return by applying optimum amounts of crop nutrients. farmers' decisions about the application rate for each crop nutrient, or to forego application of a crop nutrient, particularly phosphate and potash, vary from year to year depending on a number of factors, including among others, crop prices, crop nutrient and other crop input costs or the level of the crop nutrient remaining in the soil following the previous harvest. farmers are more likely to increase application rates when crop prices are relatively high, crop nutrient and other crop input costs are relatively low and the level of the crop nutrient remaining in the soil is relatively low. conversely, farmers are likely to reduce or forego application when farm economics are weak or declining or the level of the crop nutrients remaining in the soil is relatively high. this variability in application rates can materially accentuate the cyclicality in prices for our products and our sales volumes. our crop nutrient business is seasonal, which may result in carrying significant amounts of inventory and seasonal variations in working capital, and our inability to predict future seasonal crop nutrient demand accurately may result in excess inventory or product shortages. the crop nutrient business is seasonal. farmers tend to apply crop nutrients during two short application periods, the strongest one in the spring before planting and the other in the fall after harvest. as a result, the strongest demand for our products typically occurs during the spring planting season, with a second period of strong demand following the fall harvest. in contrast, we and other crop nutrient producers generally produce our products throughout the year. as a result, we and/or our customers generally build inventories during the low demand periods of the year in order to ensure timely product availability during the peak sales seasons. the seasonality of crop nutrient demand results in our sales volumes and net sales typically being the highest during the north american spring season and our working capital requirements typically being the highest just prior to the start of the spring season. our quarterly financial results can vary significantly from one year to the next due to weather-related shifts in planting schedules and purchasing patterns. if seasonal demand exceeds our projections, we will not have enough product and our customers may acquire products from our competitors, which would negatively impact our profitability. if seasonal demand is less than we expect, we will be left with excess inventory and higher working capital and liquidity requirements. the degree of seasonality of our business can change significantly from year to year due to conditions in the agricultural industry and other factors. the distribution channels for crop nutrients have capacity to build significant levels of inventories, which can adversely affect our sales volumes and selling prices. in order to balance the production needs of crop nutrient producers with farmers' seasonal use of crop nutrients, crop nutrient distribution channels need to have the capacity to build significant inventories. the build-up of inventories in the distribution channels can become excessive, particularly during the cyclical periods of low demand that have been typical in the crop nutrient industry. when there are excessive inventories in the distribution channel, our sales volumes and selling prices can be adversely impacted, even during periods in which farmers' use of crop nutrients may remain strong. changes in transportation costs can affect our sales volumes and selling prices. the cost of delivery is a significant factor in the total cost to customers and farmers of crop nutrients. as a result, changes in transportation costs or in customer expectations about them can affect our sales volumes and prices. customer expectations about future events can have a significant effect on the demand for our products. these expectations can significantly affect our sales volumes and selling prices. customer expectations about future events have had and are expected to continue to have an effect on the demand and prices for crop nutrients. future events that may be affected by customer expectations include, among others: customer expectations about future crop nutrient prices and availability. customer expectations about selling prices and availability of crop nutrients have had and are expected to continue to have an effect on the demand for crop nutrients. when customers anticipate increasing crop nutrient selling prices, customers tend to accumulate inventories before the anticipated price increases. this can result in a lag in our realization of rising market prices for our products. conversely, customers tend to delay their purchases when they anticipate future selling prices for crop nutrients will stabilize or decrease, adversely affecting our sales volumes and selling prices. customer expectations about availability of crop nutrients can have similar effects on sales volumes and prices. 24 table of contents customer expectations about future farmer economics. similarly, customer expectations about future farmer economics have had and are expected to continue to have an effect on the demand for crop nutrients. when customers anticipate improving farmer economics, customers tend to accumulate crop nutrient inventories in anticipation of increasing sales volumes and selling prices. this can result in a lag in our realization of rising market prices for our products. conversely, when customers anticipate declining farmer economics, customers tend to reduce the level of their purchases of crop nutrients, adversely affecting our sales volumes and selling prices. changes in customer expectations about transportation costs. as discussed above, increasing transportation costs effectively increase customers' and farmers' costs for crop nutrients and can reduce the amount we realize for our sales. expectations of decreasing transportation costs can result in customers and farmers anticipating that they may be able to decrease their costs by delaying purchases. as a result, changes in customer expectations about transportation costs can affect our sales volumes and prices. we conduct our operations primarily through a limited number of key production and distribution facilities. any disruption at one of these facilities could have a material adverse impact on our business. the risk of material disruption increases when demand for our products results in high operating rates at our facilities. we conduct our operations through a limited number of key production and distribution facilities. these facilities include our phosphate mines and concentrates plants; our potash mines; and the ports and other distribution facilities through which we, canpotex and any joint ventures in which we participate, conduct our respective businesses, as well as other commercial arrangements with unrelated third parties. any disruption of operations at one of these facilities has the possibility of significantly affecting our production or our ability to distribute our products. operating these facilities at high rates during periods of high demand for our products increases the risk of mechanical or structural failures, decreases the time available for routine maintenance and increases the impact on our operating results from any disruption. a disruption of operations at one of our key facilities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. examples of the types of events that could result in a disruption at one of these facilities include: adverse weather; strikes or other work stoppages; deliberate, malicious acts, including acts of terrorism; political and economic instability; cyber attacks and other risks associated with our international operations; changes in permitting, financial assurance or other environmental, health and safety laws or other changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate; legal and regulatory proceedings; our relationships with other members of canpotex and any joint ventures in which we participate and their or our exit from participation in canpotex or any such joint ventures; other changes in our commercial arrangements with unrelated third parties; brine inflows at our esterhazy, saskatchewan, mine or our other shaft mines; mechanical failure and accidents occurring in the course of operating activities; and other factors. insurance market conditions, our loss experience and other factors affect the insurance coverage that we carry, and we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. as a result, our insurance coverage may not adequately cover our losses. we maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance policies, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. we are subject to various self-retentions and deductibles under these insurance policies. as a result of market conditions, our loss experience and other factors, our premiums, self-retentions and deductibles for insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. in addition, significantly increased costs could lead us to decide to reduce, or possibly eliminate, coverage. as a result, a disruption of operations at one of our key facilities or a significant casualty could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. important raw materials and energy used in our businesses in the past have been and may in the future be the subject of volatile pricing. changes in the price of our raw materials could have a material impact on our businesses. natural gas, ammonia and sulfur are key raw materials used in the manufacture of phosphate crop nutrient products. natural gas is used as both a chemical feedstock and a fuel to produce anhydrous ammonia, which is a raw material used in the production of concentrated phosphate products. natural gas is also a significant energy source used in the potash solution mining process. from time to time, our profitability has been and may in the future be impacted by the price and availability of these raw materials and other energy costs. because most of our products are commodities, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass through increased costs to our customers. a significant increase in the price of natural gas, ammonia, 25 table of contents sulfur or energy costs that is not recovered through an increase in the price of our related crop nutrients products could have a material adverse impact on our business. in addition, under our long-term cf ammonia supply agreement we have agreed to purchase approximately 545,000 to 725,000 tonnes of ammonia per year during a term that may extend until december 31, 2032 at a price to be determined by a formula based on the prevailing price of u.s. natural gas. if the price of natural gas rises or the market price for ammonia falls outside of the range anticipated at execution of the agreement, we may not realize a cost benefit from the natural gas based pricing over the term of the agreement, or the cost of our ammonia under the agreement could be a competitive disadvantage. during periods when the price for concentrated phosphates is falling because of falling raw material prices, we may experience a lag in realizing the benefits of the falling raw materials prices. this lag can adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. during some periods, changes in market prices for raw materials can lead to changes in the global market prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients. in particular, the global market prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients can be affected by changes in the market prices for sulfur, ammonia, phosphate rock and/or phosphoric acid raw materials. increasing market prices for these raw materials tend to put upward pressure on the selling prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, and decreasing market prices for these raw materials tend to put downward pressure on selling prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients. when the market prices for these raw materials plunge rapidly, the selling prices for our concentrated phosphate crop nutrients can fall more rapidly than we are able to consume our raw material inventory that we purchased or committed to purchase in the past at higher prices. as a result, our costs may not fall as rapidly as the selling prices of our products. until we are able to consume the higher priced raw materials, our gross margins and profitability can be adversely affected. during periods when the prices for our products are falling because of falling raw material prices, we could be required to write-down the value of our inventories. any such write-down would adversely affect our results of operations and the level of our assets. we carry our inventories at the lower of cost or market. in periods when the market prices for our products are falling rapidly in response to falling market prices for raw materials, it is possible that we could be required to write-down the value of our inventories if market prices fall below our costs. any such write-down would adversely affect our results of operations and the level of our assets. any such effect could be material. our estimates of future selling prices reflect in part the purchase commitments we have from our customers. as a result, defaults on these existing purchase commitments because of the global or local economic and financial conditions or for other reasons could adversely affect our estimates of future selling prices and require additional inventory write-downs. in the event of a disruption to existing terminaling facilities or transportation for our products or raw materials, alternative terminaling facilities or transportation might not be available on a timely basis or have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our customers or facilities. in the event of a disruption of existing terminaling facilities or transportation for our products or raw materials, alternative terminaling facilities or transportation might not be available on a timely basis or have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our customers or facilities. terminaling facilities and transportation include the ports and other distribution facilities through which we, canpotex and the joint ventures in which we participate, conduct our respective businesses; transportation and related equipment arrangements; and other commercial arrangements with unrelated third parties. examples of the types of events that could result in a disruption of terminaling facilities or transportation include: adverse weather; strikes or other work stoppages; deliberate, malicious acts; political and economic instability and other risks associated with our international operations; changes in permitting, financial assurance or other environmental, health and safety laws or other changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate; legal and regulatory proceedings; our relationships with other members of canpotex and any joint ventures in which we participate and their or our exit from participation in canpotex or any such joint ventures; other changes in our commercial arrangements with unrelated third parties; accidents occurring in the course of operating activities; lack of truck, rail, barge or ship transportation; and other factors. we discuss a number of these examples in more detail throughout this risk factors section. 26 table of contents we are subject to risks associated with our international sales and operations, which could negatively affect our sales to customers in foreign countries as well as our operations and assets in foreign countries. some of these factors may also make it less attractive to distribute cash generated by our operations outside the united states to our stockholders, or to utilize cash generated by our operations in one country to fund our operations or repayments of indebtedness in another country or to support other corporate purposes. for 2016 , we derived approximately 63% of our net sales from customers located outside of the united states, of which our international distribution segment accounted for 56%. as a result, we are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: difficulties and costs associated with complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory environments; increased government ownership and regulation of the economy in the countries we serve; political and economic instability, including the possibility for civil unrest, inflation and adverse economic conditions resulting from governmental attempts to reduce inflation, such as imposition of higher interest rates and wage and price controls; nationalization of properties by foreign governments; the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls, trade barriers or other restrictions, or government-imposed increases in the cost of resources and materials necessary for the conduct of our operations or the completion of strategic initiatives, including with respect to our joint ventures; and currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies, particularly the brazilian real and the canadian dollar. the occurrence of any of the above in the countries in which we operate or elsewhere could jeopardize or limit our ability to transact business there and could adversely affect our revenues and operating results and the value of our assets located outside of the united states. in addition, tax regulations, currency exchange controls and other restrictions may also make it economically unattractive to: distribute cash generated by our operations outside the united states to our stockholders; or utilize cash generated by our operations in one country to fund our operations or repayments of indebtedness in another country or to support other corporate purposes. changes in tax laws or regulations or their interpretation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities, could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we are subject to taxes, including income taxes, resource taxes and royalties, and other non-income based taxes in the u.s., canada, china, brazil and other countries where we operate. changes in tax laws or regulations or their interpretation could result in higher taxes, which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our international assets are located in countries with volatile conditions, which could subject us and our assets to significant risks. we are a global business with substantial assets located outside of the united states and canada. our operations in brazil, china, india and paraguay are a fundamental part of our business. we also have joint venture investments in the miski mayo mine in peru that supplies phosphate rock to us, and mwspc, which is developing a mine and chemical complexes that we presently expect would produce phosphate fertilizers and other downstream products in the kingdom of saudi arabia. volatile economic, political and market conditions in these and other emerging market countries may have a negative impact on our operations, operating results and financial condition. in addition, unfavorable changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, or governmental actions and policies and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and the pricing and sourcing of our raw materials, may also have a negative impact on our operations, operating results and financial condition. natural resource extraction is an important part of the economy in peru, and, in the past, there have been protests against other natural resource operations in peru. as of the date of this report, there remain numerous social conflicts that exist within the natural resource sector in peru and as a result there is potential for active protests against natural resource companies. if the government of peru's proactive efforts to address the social and environmental issues surrounding natural resource activities were not successful, protests could extend to or impact the miski mayo mine and adversely affect our investment in the miski mayo joint venture or the supply of phosphate rock to us from the mine. 27 table of contents adverse weather conditions, including the impact of hurricanes, and excess heat, cold, snow, rainfall and drought, have in the past, and may in the future, adversely affect our operations, particularly our phosphates business, and result in increased costs, decreased production and potential liabilities. adverse weather conditions, including the impact of hurricanes and excess heat, cold, snow, rainfall and drought, have in the past and may in the future adversely affect our operations, particularly our phosphates business. in the past, hurricanes have resulted in minor physical damage to our facilities in florida and louisiana. in addition, a release of process wastewater at our riverview, florida facility during a hurricane resulted in a small civil fine, settlement for an immaterial amount of claims for natural resource damages by governmental agencies and an ongoing private lawsuit. additionally, water treatment costs, particularly at our florida operations, due to high water balances tend to increase significantly following excess rainfall from hurricanes or other adverse weather. some of our florida facilities have had or could have high water levels that may require treatment. high water balances in the past at phosphate facilities in florida also led the florida department of environmental protection (" fdep ") to adopt new rules requiring phosphate production facilities to meet more stringent process water management objectives for phosphogypsum management systems. if additional excess rainfall or hurricanes occur in coming years, our facilities may be required to take additional measures to manage process water to comply with existing or future requirements and these measures could potentially have a material effect on our business and financial condition. adverse weather may also cause a loss of production due to disruptions in our supply chain or adversely affect delivery of our products to our customers. for example, oil refineries that supply sulfur to us may suspend operations as a result of a hurricane and incoming shipments of ammonia can be delayed, disrupting production at our florida or louisiana facilities and delivery of our products. drought can also adversely affect us. for example, drought can reduce farmers' crop yields and the uptake of phosphates and potash, reducing the need for application of additional phosphates and potash for the next planting season. drought can also lower river levels, adversely affecting delivery of our products to our customers. our operations are dependent on having the required permits and approvals from governmental authorities. denial or delay by a government agency in issuing any of our permits and approvals or imposition of restrictive conditions on us with respect to these permits and approvals may impair our business and operations. we hold numerous governmental environmental, mining and other permits and approvals authorizing operations at each of our facilities. a decision by a government agency to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations at the affected facility. expansion of our operations also is predicated upon securing the necessary environmental or other permits or approvals. over the next several years, we and our subsidiaries will be continuing our efforts to obtain permits in support of our anticipated florida mining operations at certain of our properties. a denial of, or delay in issuing, these permits, the issuance of permits with cost-prohibitive conditions, legal actions that prevent us from relying on permits or revocation of permits, could prevent us from mining at these properties and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for example: in florida, local community participation has become an important factor in the permitting process for mining companies, and various local counties and other parties in florida have in the past and continue to file lawsuits challenging the issuance of some of the permits we require. these actions can significantly delay permit issuance. in fiscal 2009, in connection with our efforts to permit the altman extension of our four corners, florida, phosphate rock mine, non-governmental organizations filed a lawsuit in federal court against the corps with respect to its actions in issuing a federal wetlands permit. the permit issued by the corps remained in effect. mining on the extension commenced and approximately 600 acres were mined and/or disturbed. in september 2013, this lawsuit was dismissed by the united states district court for the middle district of florida, jacksonville division. delays in receiving a federal wetlands permit impacted the scheduled progression of mining activities for the extension of our south fort meade, florida, phosphate rock mine into hardee county. as a result, we began to idle a portion of our mining equipment at the mine in the latter part of fiscal 2010. in june 2010, the corps issued the federal wetlands permit. subsequently, certain non-governmental organizations filed another lawsuit in the united states district court for the middle district of florida, jacksonville division, contesting the issuance of this federal 28 table of contents wetlands permit, alleging that the corps' actions in issuing the permit violated several federal laws relating to the protection of the environment. preliminary injunctions entered into in connection with this lawsuit resulted in shutdowns or reduced production at our south fort meade mine until april 2012. following a settlement of the lawsuit in february 2012 and court approval, we were able to resume normal production at our south fort meade mine. the periods of shutdown and reduced phosphate rock production at our south fort meade mine resulted in costs to suspend operations and idle plant costs. lower phosphate rock mining production levels also adversely affected gross margin. we have included additional discussion about permitting for our phosphate mines in florida under environmental, health, safety and security matters operating requirements and impacts permitting in our management's analysis. we are subject to financial assurance requirements as part of our routine business operations. these financial assurance requirements affect our costs and increase our liquidity requirements. if we were unable to satisfy applicable financial assurance requirements, we might not be able to obtain or maintain permits we need to operate our business as we have in the past. our need to comply with these requirements could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. in many cases, as a condition to procuring or maintaining permits and approvals or otherwise, we are required to comply with financial assurance requirements of governmental authorities. the purpose of these requirements is to provide comfort to the government that sufficient funds will be available for the ultimate closure, post-closure care and/or reclamation of our facilities. in some cases we are able to comply through the satisfaction of applicable state financial strength tests, but if we are unable to do so, we must utilize alternative methods of complying with the financial assurance requirements or we could be subject to enforcement proceedings brought by relevant government agencies. potential alternative methods of compliance include providing credit support in the form of cash escrows or trusts, surety bonds from insurance companies, letters of credit from banks, or other forms of financial instruments or collateral to satisfy the financial assurance requirements or negotiating a consent agreement that establishes a different form of financial assurance. use of alternative means of financial assurance imposes additional expense on us. some of them, such as letters of credit, also use a portion of our available liquidity. other alternative means of financial assurance, such as surety bonds, may in some cases require collateral and generally require us to obtain a discharge of the bonds or to post additional collateral (typically in the form of cash or letters of credit) at the request of the issuer of the bonds. collateral that is required may be in many forms including letters of credit or other financial instruments that utilize a portion of our available liquidity, or in the form of assets such as real estate, which reduces our flexibility to manage or sell assets. for example: with respect to two facilities we acquired as part of the cf phosphate assets acquisition, (i) we have funded a trust to meet florida state regulations governing financial assurance related to the post-closure care of the phosphogypsum stack at our closed bonnie facility in florida, and (ii) under the terms of a consent decree with federal and state regulators we currently provide credit support in the form of a surety bond from insurance companies, as a means of financial assurance for closure and post-closure care requirements for the phosphogypsum stack at our plant city, florida facility. these financial assurance funding obligations require estimates of future expenditures that could be impacted by refinements in scope, technological developments, cost inflation, changes in regulations, discount rates and the timing of activities. additional funding could be required in the future if increases in cost estimates exceed the amount held in the trust or face amount of the surety bond, as applicable. in addition, with respect to the plant city facility, our use of a surety bond may in some cases require that we obtain a discharge of the bond or post collateral at the request of the issuers of the bond. required collateral may be in many forms including letters of credit or other financial instruments that utilize a portion of our available liquidity. any of these circumstances could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. as more fully discussed in note 13 of our notes to consolidated financial statements, in 2016 under the terms of two consent decrees with federal and state regulators we deposited a total of $630 million into two trust funds to provide additional financial assurance for the estimated costs of closure and post-closure care of most of our other phosphogypsum management systems in florida (excluding those acquired as part of the cf phosphate assets acquisition) and louisiana. as required under one of the consent decrees, we will also issue a $50 million letter of credit in 2017 to further support our financial assurance obligations. we have also agreed to guarantee the 29 table of contents difference between the amounts held in each trust fund (including earnings) and the estimated closure and long-term care costs. compliance with the financial assurance requirements included in these consent decrees satisfies substantially all of our state financial assurance obligations relating to the covered facilities, which were historically satisfied without the need for any expenditure of corporate funds to the extent our financial statements met certain balance sheet and income statement financial strength tests. in the past, we have also not always been able to satisfy applicable financial strength tests, and in the future, it is possible that we will not be able to pass the applicable financial strength tests, negotiate or receive approval of consent decrees, establish escrow or trust accounts or obtain letters of credit, surety bonds or other financial instruments on acceptable terms and conditions or at a reasonable cost, or that the form and/or cost of compliance could increase, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. we have included additional discussion about financial assurance requirements under off balance sheet arrangements and obligations other commercial commitments in our management's analysis. the other environmental regulations to which we are subject may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition to permitting and financial assurance requirements, we are subject to numerous other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the u.s., canada, china, brazil and other countries where we operate. these laws and regulations govern a wide range of matters, including environmental controls, land reclamation, discharges to air and water and remediation of hazardous substance releases. they significantly affect our operating activities as well as the level of our operating costs and capital expenditures. in some international jurisdictions, environmental laws change frequently and it may be difficult for us to determine if we are in compliance with all material environmental laws at any given time. we are, and may in the future be, involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that could be material to us. these proceedings include legacy matters arising from activities of our predecessor companies and from facilities and businesses that we have never owned or operated. we have in the past been, are currently and may in the future be subject to legal and regulatory proceedings that could be material to our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. joint ventures in which we participate could also become subject to these sorts of proceedings. these proceedings may be brought by the government or private parties and may arise out of a variety of matters, including: allegations by the government or private parties that we have violated the permitting, financial assurance or other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations discussed above. for example, in connection with our settlement of matters relating to the u.s. environmental protection agency's ongoing review of mineral processing industries under the u.s. resource conservation and recovery act, we entered into the consent decrees discussed above and in note 13 of our notes to consolidated financial statements, which required us to provide additional financial assurance as described above, pay cash penalties of approximately $8 million in the aggregate, and modify certain operating practices and undertake certain capital improvement projects over a period of several years that are expected to result in capital expenditures likely to exceed $200 million in the aggregate. we are also involved in other proceedings alleging that, or to review whether, we have violated environmental laws in the united states and brazil. other environmental, health and safety matters, including alleged personal injury, wrongful death, complaints that our operations are adversely impacting nearby farms and other business operations, other property damage, subsidence from mining operations, natural resource damages and other damage to the environment, arising out of operations, including accidents. for example, several actions were initiated by the government and private parties related to a release of phosphoric acid process wastewater at our riverview, florida facility during a 2004 hurricane. in addition, a putative class action lawsuit was filed following the water loss incident that occurred at our new wales, florida facility in 2016 and in connection with that incident we also entered into an administrative consent order with the fdep as discussed in greater detail in note 21 of our notes to consolidated financial statements. antitrust, commercial, tax (including tax audits) and other disputes. for example, we were one of a number of defendants in multiple class-action lawsuits, in which the plaintiffs sought unspecified amounts of damages including treble damages, alleging that we and other defendants conspired to, among other matters, fix the price at which potash was sold in the united states, allocated market shares and customers and fraudulently concealed their anticompetitive conduct. in january 2013, we settled these class action antitrust lawsuits for an aggregate of $43.8 million. 30 table of contents the legal and regulatory proceedings to which we are currently or may in the future be subject can, depending on the circumstances, result in monetary damage awards, fines, penalties, other liabilities, injunctions or other court or administrative rulings that interrupt, impede or otherwise materially affect our business operations, and/or criminal sanctions. among other environmental laws, the u.s. comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act ( cercla ) imposes liability, including for cleanup costs, without regard to fault or to the legality of a party's conduct, on certain categories of persons, including current and former owners and operators of a site and parties who are considered to have contributed to the release of hazardous substances into the environment. under cercla, or various u.s. state analogues, a party may, under certain circumstances, be required to bear more than its proportional share of cleanup costs at a site where it has liability if payments cannot be obtained from other responsible parties. as a crop nutrient company working with chemicals and other hazardous substances, we will periodically incur liabilities and cleanup costs, under cercla and other environmental laws, with regard to our current or former facilities, adjacent or nearby third-party facilities or offsite disposal locations. pending and potential legal and regulatory proceedings may arise out of our present activities, including operations at current facilities. they may also arise out of past activities by us, our predecessor companies and subsidiaries that our predecessors have sold. these past activities were in some cases at facilities that we and our subsidiaries no longer own or operate and may have never owned or operated. settlements of legal and regulatory matters frequently require court approval. in the event a court were not to approve of a settlement, it is possible that we and the other party or parties to the matter might not be able to settle it on terms that were acceptable to all parties or that we could be required to accept more stringent terms of settlement than required by the opposing parties. we have included additional information with respect to pending legal and regulatory proceedings in note 21 of our notes to consolidated financial statements and in this report in part i, item 3, legal proceedings . these legal and regulatory proceedings involve inherent uncertainties and could negatively impact our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. the permitting, financial assurance and other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations to which we are subject may become more stringent over time. this could increase the effects on us of these laws and regulations, and the increased effects could be material. continued government and public emphasis on environmental, health and safety issues in the u.s., canada, china, brazil, paraguay and other countries where we operate can be expected to result in requirements that apply to us and our operations that are more stringent than those that are described above and elsewhere in this report. these more stringent requirements may include among other matters increased levels of future investments and expenditures for environmental controls at ongoing operations which will be charged against income from future operations, increased levels of the financial assurance requirements to which we are subject, increased efforts or costs to obtain permits or denial of permits, other new or interpretations of existing statutes or regulations that impose new or more stringent restrictions or liabilities, including liabilities or additional financial assurance requirements under cercla or similar statutes, including restrictions or liabilities related to elevated levels of naturally-occurring radiation that arise from disturbing the ground in the course of mining activities, and other matters that could increase our expenses, capital requirements or liabilities or adversely affect our business, liquidity or financial condition. in addition, to the extent restrictions imposed in countries where our competitors operate, such as china, india, former soviet union countries or morocco, are less stringent than in the countries where we operate, our competitors could gain cost or other competitive advantages over us. these effects could be material. among other matters, there are several recent or ongoing initiatives relating to nutrient discharges. new regulatory restrictions from these initiatives could have a material effect on either us or our customers. for example: the fdep has adopted state nutrient criteria rules ( florida nnc rule ) to supplant the requirements of numeric water quality standards for the discharge of nitrogen and/or phosphorus into florida lakes and streams that were adopted by epa in december 2010 (the nnc rule ). while epa has withdrawn the federal nnc rule and the fdep criteria now are effective, the possibility remains that still-pending litigation relating to the nnc rule or future litigation could challenge epa's withdrawal or the effectiveness of the florida nnc rule. subject to further litigation developments, we expect that compliance with the requirements of nutrient criteria rules could adversely affect our florida phosphate operations, require significant capital expenditures or substantially increase our annual operating expenses. 31 table of contents the gulf coast ecosystem restoration task force, established by executive order of the president and comprised of five gulf states and eleven federal agencies, has delivered a final strategy for long-term ecosystem restoration for the gulf coast in 2016. the strategy calls for, among other matters, reduction of the flow of excess nutrients into the gulf through state nutrient reduction frameworks, new nutrient reduction approaches and reduction of agricultural and urban sources of excess nutrients. implementation of the strategy will require legislative or regulatory action at the state level. we cannot predict what the requirements of any such legislative or regulatory action could be or whether or how it would affect us or our customers. in march 2012, several nongovernmental organizations brought a lawsuit in federal court against epa, seeking to require it to establish numeric nutrient criteria for nitrogen and phosphorous in the mississippi river basin and the gulf of mexico. epa had previously denied a 2008 petition seeking such standards. on may 30, 2012, the court granted our motion to intervene in this lawsuit. on september 20, 2013 the court held that while epa was required to respond directly to the petition and find that numeric nutrient criteria either were or were not necessary for the mississippi river watershed, epa had the discretion to decide this issue based on non-technical factors, including cost, policy considerations and administrative complexity. epa appealed the decision, and the fifth circuit court of appeals issued a decision in april 2015, holding in substantial part that epa was not obligated to make a determination that numeric nutrient criteria are or are not necessary, provided epa gives a reasonable explanation for its conclusion. the court of appeals remanded the case to the district court to decide whether epa can meet that burden. on november 20, 2015, epa filed a motion with the district court seeking summary judgment and on january 14, 2016, non-state intervenors including mosaic filed a brief supporting epa's motion. on december 15, 2016, the louisiana district court granted epa's motion for summary judgment. in the event that epa were to adopt numeric nutrient criteria for the mississippi river basin and the gulf of mexico, we cannot predict what these requirements would be or the effects they would have on us or our customers. in addition, in april 2014 epa and the u.s. army corps of engineers jointly issued a proposed rule that would redefine the scope of waters regulated under the federal clean water act. the final rule was issued in june 2015 and became effective in august 2015, but has been challenged through numerous lawsuits. in october 2015, the u.s. court of appeals for the sixth circuit issued an order staying the effectiveness of the final rule until after the legal validity of the regulation is resolved. we believe the new definition would expand the types and extent of water resources regulated under federal law, thereby potentially expanding our permitting and reporting requirements, increasing our costs of compliance, including costs associated with wetlands and stream mitigation, lengthening the time necessary to obtain permits, and potentially restricting our ability to mine certain of our phosphate rock reserves. these effects could be material. regulatory restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions and climate change regulations in the united states, canada or elsewhere could adversely affect us, and these effects could be material. various governmental initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions are under way or under consideration around the world. these initiatives could restrict our operating activities, require us to make changes in our operating activities that would increase our operating costs, reduce our efficiency or limit our output, require us to make capital improvements to our facilities, increase our energy, raw material and transportation costs or limit their availability, or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, and these effects could be material to us. governmental greenhouse gas emission initiatives include, among others , the december 2015 agreement (the paris agreement ) which was the outcome of the 21 st session of the conference of the parties under the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc). the paris agreement, which was signed by nearly 200 nations including the united states and canada, entered into force in late 2016 and sets out a goal of limiting the average rise in temperatures for this century to below 2 degrees celsius. each signatory is expected to develop its own plan (referred to as a nationally determined contribution, or ndc ) for reaching that goal. the ndc submitted by the united states in 2015 aims to achieve, by 2025, an economy-wide target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 26-28% below its 2005 level. it also aims to use best efforts to reduce its emissions by 28%. the u.s. target covers all greenhouse gases that were a part of the 2014 inventory of greenhouse gas emissions and sinks. while it is unclear whether the new u.s. executive administration will seek to implement the u.s. ndc, various legislative or regulatory initiatives relating to greenhouse gases have already been adopted or considered by the u.s. congress, epa or various states and those already adopted may be used to implement the u.s.'s ndc. additionally, more stringent laws and regulations may be enacted to accomplish the goals set out in the ndc. canada's intended ndc aims to achieve, by 2030, an economy-wide target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 30% below 2005 levels. in addition, in late 2016 the federal government announced plans for a comprehensive tax on carbon 32 table of contents emissions, under which provinces opting out of the tax would have the option of adopting a cap-and-trade system. while no tax has formally been proposed, as implementation of the paris agreement proceeds, more stringent laws and regulations may be enacted to accomplish the goals set out in canada's ndc. in addition, the province of saskatchewan, in which our canadian potash mines are located, has passed legislation to facilitate the development and administration of climate change regulation in saskatchewan by the province rather than the federal government. this legislation is not yet effective, but key elements under consideration by the province include establishing a provincial greenhouse gas emission reduction target, and compliance mechanisms that would provide flexibility for regulated emitters to meet their greenhouse gas reduction obligations. our saskatchewan potash facilities will continue to work with the saskatchewan ministry of environment and environment canada, through participation in industry associations, to determine next steps. we will also continue to monitor developments relating to the anticipated proposed legislation, as well as the potential future effect on our operating activities, energy, raw material and transportation costs, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources. it is possible that future legislation or regulation addressing climate change, including in response to the paris agreement or any new international agreements, could adversely affect our operating activities, energy, raw material and transportation costs, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, and these effects could be material. in addition, to the extent climate change restrictions imposed in countries where our competitors operate, such as china, india, former soviet union countries or morocco, are less stringent than in the united states or canada, our competitors could gain cost or other competitive advantages over us. future climate change could adversely affect us. the prospective impact of climate change on our operations and those of our customers and farmers remains uncertain. scientists have hypothesized that the impacts of climate change could include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperature levels and that these changes could be severe. these impacts could vary by geographic location. at the present time, we cannot predict the prospective impact of climate change on our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, or whether any such effects could be material to us. some of our competitors and potential competitors have greater resources than we do, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage and adversely affect our sales and profitability. these competitors include state-owned and government-subsidized entities in other countries. we compete with a number of producers throughout the world, including state-owned and government-subsidized entities. some of these entities may have greater total resources than we do, and may be less dependent on earnings from crop nutrients sales than we are. in addition, some of these entities may have access to lower cost or government-subsidized natural gas supplies, placing us at a competitive disadvantage. furthermore, certain governments as owners of some of our competitors may be willing to accept lower prices and profitability on their products in order to support domestic employment or other political or social goals. to the extent other producers of crop nutrients enjoy competitive advantages or are willing to accept lower profit levels, the price of our products, our sales volumes and our profits may be adversely affected. we do not own a controlling equity interest in our non-consolidated companies, some of which are foreign companies, and therefore our operating results and cash flow may be materially affected by how the governing boards and majority owners operate such businesses. there may also be limitations on monetary distributions from these companies that are outside of our control. together, these factors may lower our equity earnings or cash flow from such businesses and negatively impact our results of operations. in 2013 we entered into an agreement to form mwspc, a joint venture to develop a mine and chemical complexes for an estimated $8.0 billion that is expected to produce phosphate fertilizers and other downstream products in the kingdom of saudi arabia. we have a 25% interest in the joint venture and expect our cash investment will be up to $850 million , approximately $707 million of which had been funded as of december 31, 2016. we also expect to provide financial guarantees with respect to our proportionate share of certain future planned funding facilities of mwspc. the success of mwspc will depend on, among other matters, its ability to obtain the future planned funding facilities in acceptable amounts and upon acceptable terms, the timely development and commencement of operations of production facilities in the kingdom of saudi arabia, the future success of current plans for the development and operation of mwspc, including the availability and affordability of necessary resources and materials and access to appropriate infrastructure, and any future changes in those plans, as well as the general economic and political stability of the region. we also hold minority ownership interests in a joint venture that owns and operates a phosphate rock mine and in other companies that are not controlled by us. we expect that the operations and results of mwspc will be, and the operations or 33 table of contents results of some of the other joint ventures or companies are, significant to us, and their operations can affect our earnings. because we do not control these companies either at the board or stockholder levels and because local laws in foreign jurisdictions and contractual obligations may place restrictions on monetary distributions by these companies, we cannot ensure that these companies will operate efficiently (or, in the case of mwspc, in compliance with the terms of any future funding facility for which we may provide financial guarantees), pay dividends, or generally follow the desires of our management by virtue of our board or stockholder representation. as a result, these companies may contribute less than anticipated to our earnings and cash flow, negatively impacting our results of operations and liquidity. additionally, in the case of mwspc we may be called upon to provide funds to satisfy mwspc's debt obligations to the extent we provide financial guarantees in connection with future planned funding facilities as discussed above. strikes or other forms of work stoppage or slowdown could disrupt our business and lead to increased costs. our financial performance is dependent on a reliable and productive work force. a significant portion of our workforce, and that of the joint ventures in which we participate, is covered by collective bargaining agreements with unions. unsuccessful contract negotiations or adverse labor relations could result in strikes or slowdowns. any disruptions may decrease our production and sales or impose additional costs to resolve disputes. the risk of adverse labor relations may increase as our profitability increases because labor unions' expectations and demands generally rise at those times. accidents occurring in the course of our operating activities could result in significant liabilities, interruptions or shutdowns of facilities or the need for significant safety or other expenditures. we engage in mining and industrial activities that can result in serious accidents. if our safety procedures are not effective, or if an accident occurs, we could be subject to liabilities arising out of personal injuries or death, our operations could be interrupted and we might have to shut down or abandon affected facilities. accidents could cause us to expend significant amounts to remediate safety issues or to repair damaged facilities. for example: some of our mines are subject to potential damage from earthquakes. the excavation of mines can result in potential seismic events or can increase the likelihood or potential severity of a seismic event. the rise and fall of water levels, such as those arising from the brine inflows and our remediation activities at our esterhazy mine, can also result in or increase the likelihood or potential severity of a seismic event. our esterhazy mine has experienced minor seismic events from time to time. a significant seismic event at one of our mines could result in serious injuries or death, or damage to or flooding of the mine or, in the extreme scenario, cause us to change our mining process or abandon the mine. our underground potash shaft mines are subject to risk from fire. in the event of a fire, if our emergency procedures are not successful, we could have significant injuries or deaths. in addition, fire at one of our underground shaft mines could halt our operations at the affected mine while we investigate the origin of the fire or for longer periods for remedial work or otherwise. our underground potash shaft mines at esterhazy and colonsay, saskatchewan and carlsbad, new mexico are subject to risk from fire. any failure of our safety procedures in the future could result in serious injuries or death, or shutdowns, which could result in significant liabilities and/or impact on the financial performance of our potash business, including a possible material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we handle significant quantities of ammonia at several of our facilities. if our safety procedures are not effective, an accident involving our ammonia operations could result in serious injuries or death, or result in the shutdown of our facilities. we produce ammonia at our faustina, louisiana phosphate concentrates plant, use ammonia in significant quantities at all of our florida and louisiana phosphates concentrates plants and store ammonia at some of our distribution facilities. for our florida phosphates concentrates plants, ammonia is received at terminals in tampa and transported by pipelines and rail to our facilities. our ammonia is generally stored and transported at high pressures or cryogenically. an accident could occur that could result in serious injuries or death, or the evacuation of areas near an accident. an accident could also result in property damage or the shutdown of our florida or louisiana phosphates concentrates plants, the ammonia terminals, pipelines or rail lines serving those plants or our other ammonia storage and handling facilities. as a result, an accident involving ammonia could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. 34 table of contents we also use or produce other hazardous or volatile chemicals at some of our facilities. if our safety procedures are not effective, an accident involving these other hazardous or volatile chemicals could result in serious injuries or death, or result in the shutdown of our facilities. we use sulfuric acid in the production of concentrated phosphates in our florida and louisiana operations. some of our florida and louisiana facilities produce fluorosilicic acid, which is a hazardous chemical, for resale to third parties. we also use or produce other hazardous or volatile chemicals at some of our facilities. an accident involving any of these chemicals could result in serious injuries or death, or evacuation of areas near an accident. an accident could also result in property damage or shutdown of our facilities, or cause us to expend significant amounts to remediate safety issues or to repair damaged facilities. as a result, an accident involving any of these chemicals could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. deliberate, malicious acts, including terrorism, could damage our facilities, disrupt our operations or injure employees, contractors, customers or the public and result in liability to us. intentional acts of destruction could hinder our sales or production and disrupt our supply chain. our facilities could be damaged or destroyed, reducing our operational production capacity and requiring us to repair or replace our facilities at substantial cost. employees, contractors and the public could suffer substantial physical injury for which we could be liable. governmental authorities may impose security or other requirements that could make our operations more difficult or costly. the consequences of any such actions could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by changing antitrust laws to which we are subject. increases in crop nutrient prices can increase the scrutiny to which we are subject under these laws. we are subject to antitrust and competition laws in various countries throughout the world. we cannot predict how these laws or their interpretation, administration and enforcement will change over time. changes in antitrust laws globally, or in their interpretation, administration or enforcement, may limit our existing or future operations and growth, or the operations of canpotex, which serves as an export association for our potash business. increases in crop nutrient prices have in the past resulted in increased scrutiny of the crop nutrient industry under antitrust and competition laws and can increase the risk that these laws could be interpreted, administered or enforced in a manner that could affect our operating practices or impose liability on us in a manner that could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by other changes in laws resulting from increases in food and crop nutrient prices. increases in prices for, among other things, food, fuel and crop inputs (including crop nutrients) have in the past been the subject of significant discussion by various governmental bodies and officials throughout the world. in response to increases, it is possible that governments in one or more of the locations in which we operate or where we or our competitors sell our products could take actions that could affect us. such actions could include, among other matters, changes in governmental policies relating to agriculture and biofuels (including changes in subsidy levels), price controls, tariffs, windfall profits taxes or export or import taxes. any such actions could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our competitive position could be adversely affected if we are unable to participate in continuing industry consolidation. most of our products are readily available from a number of competitors, and price and other competition in the crop nutrient industry is intense. in addition, crop nutrient production facilities and distribution activities frequently benefit from economies of scale. as a result, particularly during pronounced cyclical troughs, the crop nutrient industry has a long history of consolidation. mosaic itself is the result of a number of industry consolidations. we expect consolidation among crop nutrient producers could continue. our competitive position could suffer to the extent we are not able to expand our own resources either through consolidations, acquisitions, joint ventures or partnerships. in the future, we may not be able to find suitable companies to combine with, assets to purchase or joint venture or partnership opportunities to pursue. even if we are able to locate desirable opportunities, we may not be able to enter into transactions on economically acceptable terms. if we do not successfully participate in continuing industry consolidation, our ability to compete successfully could be adversely affected and result in the loss of customers or an uncompetitive cost structure, which could adversely affect our sales and profitability. our strategy for managing market and interest rate risk may not be effective. our businesses are affected by fluctuations in market prices for our products, the purchase price of natural gas, ammonia and sulfur consumed in operations, freight and shipping costs, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. we periodically 35 table of contents enter into derivatives and forward purchase contracts to mitigate some of these risks. however, our strategy may not be successful in minimizing our exposure to these fluctuations. see market risk in our management's analysis and note 14 of our notes to consolidated financial statements that is incorporated by reference in this report in part ii, item 8. a shortage or unavailability of railcars, tugs, barges and ships for carrying our products and the raw materials we use in our business could result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of production or sales and higher transportation or equipment costs. we rely heavily upon truck, rail, tug, barge and ocean freight transportation to obtain the raw materials we need and to deliver our products to our customers. in addition, the cost of transportation is an important part of the final sale price of our products. finding affordable and dependable transportation is important in obtaining our raw materials and to supply our customers. higher costs for these transportation services or an interruption or slowdown due to factors including high demand, high fuel prices, labor disputes, layoffs or other factors affecting the availability of qualified transportation workers, adverse weather or other environmental events, or changes to rail, barge or ocean freight systems, could negatively affect our ability to produce our products or deliver them to our customers, which could affect our performance and results of operations. strong demand for grain and other products and a strong world economy increase the demand for and reduce the availability of transportation, both domestically and internationally. shortages of railcars, barges and ocean transport for carrying product and increased transit time may result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of sales and higher equipment and transportation costs. in addition, during periods when the shipping industry has a shortage of ships the substantial time needed to build new ships prevents rapid market response. delays and missed shipments due to transportation shortages, including vessels, barges, railcars and trucks, could result in customer dissatisfaction or loss of sales potential, which could negatively affect our performance and results of operations. additionally, we have agreed under our long-term cf ammonia supply agreement to purchase approximately 545,000 to 725,000 tonnes of ammonia per year beginning with 2017, during a term that may extend until december 31, 2032, at a price to be determined by a formula based on the prevailing price of u.s. natural gas. for 2017, our remaining minimum purchase obligation is approximately 410,000 tonnes following our entry into a separate arrangement with cf under which we were deemed to have purchased approximately 135,000 tonnes in exchange for providing ammonia storage space and use of related terminal facilities to cf. we will be obligated to provide for transportation of the ammonia under the agreement, and if we fail to take the required minimum annual amount, cf may elect to require us to make payment of liquidated damages or, with respect to such failures in years after 2017, terminate the agreement. payment of significant liquidated damages or an election by cf to terminate the agreement could adversely affect our business. a lack of customers' access to credit can adversely affect their ability to purchase our products. some of our customers require access to credit to purchase our products. a lack of available credit to customers in one or more countries, due to global or local economic conditions or for other reasons, could adversely affect demand for crop nutrients. we extend trade credit to our customers and guarantee the financing that some of our customers use to purchase our products. our results of operations may be adversely affected if these customers are unable to repay the trade credit from us or financing from their banks. increases in prices for crop nutrient, other agricultural inputs and grain may increase this risk. we extend trade credit to our customers in the united states and throughout the world, in some cases for extended periods of time. in brazil, where there are fewer third-party financing sources available to farmers, we also have several programs under which we guarantee customers' financing from financial institutions that they use to purchase our products. as our exposure to longer trade credit extended throughout the world and use of guarantees in brazil increases, we are increasingly exposed to the risk that some of our customers will not pay us or the amounts we have guaranteed. additionally, we become increasingly exposed to risk due to weather and crop growing conditions, fluctuations in commodity prices or foreign currencies, and other factors that influence the price, supply and demand for agricultural commodities. significant defaults by our customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. increases in prices for crop nutrients increase the dollar amount of our sales to customers. the larger dollar value of our customers' purchases may also lead them to request longer trade credit from us and/or increase their need for us to guarantee their financing of our products. either factor could increase the amount of our exposure to the risk that our customers may be unable to repay the trade credit from us or financing from their banks that we guarantee. in addition, increases in prices for 36 table of contents other agricultural inputs and grain may increase the working capital requirements, indebtedness and other liabilities of our customers, increase the risk that they will default on the trade credit from us or their financing that we guarantee, and decrease the likelihood that we will be able to collect from our customers in the event of their default. tax rules governing the cargill transaction limited our ability to execute certain actions for a period of time following the cargill transaction and, if our procedures for compliance with those restrictions were ineffective, notwithstanding the irs ruling and tax opinion issued to cargill in connection with the cargill transaction, we could owe significant tax-related indemnification liabilities to cargill. the irs issued a ruling to the effect that the split-off that was part of the cargill transaction would be tax-free to cargill and its stockholders, and in connection with the completion of the cargill transaction, cargill received a tax opinion relating to certain tax consequences of the cargill transaction. notwithstanding the irs ruling and tax opinion, however, the split-off and debt exchanges could be taxable to cargill and its stockholders under certain circumstances. therefore, we and cargill agreed to tax-related restrictions and indemnities set forth in a tax agreement related to the cargill transaction, under which we were restricted or deterred from taking certain actions until may 26, 2013, including (i) redeeming or purchasing our stock in excess of agreed-upon amounts; (ii) issuing any equity securities in excess of agreed upon amounts; (iii) approving or recommending a third party's acquisition of us; (iv) permitting any merger or other combination of mosaic or mos holdings inc.; and (v) entering into an agreement for the purchase of any interest in mosaic or mos holdings inc., subject to certain exceptions. we agreed to indemnify cargill for taxes and tax-related losses imposed on cargill as a result of the split-off and/or debt exchange failing to qualify as tax-free, if the taxes and related losses are attributable to, arise out of or result from certain prohibited acts or to any breach of, or inaccuracy in, any representation, warranty or covenant made by us in the tax agreement referred to above. the taxes and tax-related losses of cargill would be material if these transactions fail to qualify as tax-free, and, while we do not believe we engaged in any prohibited acts during the relevant period, if our procedures for avoiding any of these prohibited acts or breaches were ineffective, this indemnity would result in material liabilities from us to cargill that could have a material adverse effect on us. for a further discussion of the restrictions and indemnities set forth in the agreements related to the cargill transaction, please see note 18 to our notes to consolidated financial statements. provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. our restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. these provisions include the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent and the inability of our stockholders to request that our board of directors or chairman of our board call a special meeting of stockholders. we are also subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. in general, section 203 prohibits a publicly held delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years from the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the interested stockholder attained this status with the approval of the board of directors or unless the business combination was approved in a prescribed manner. a business combination includes mergers, asset sales and other transactions resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder. subject to exceptions, an interested stockholder is a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns, or within three years owned, 15% or more of the corporation's voting stock. this statute could prohibit or delay the accomplishment of mergers or other takeover or change in control attempts with respect to us and, accordingly, may discourage attempts to acquire us. these provisions apply not only when they may protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics but even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in our best interests or those of our stockholders. our success will continue to depend on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified and motivated employees. we believe our continued success depends on the collective abilities and efforts of our employees. like many businesses, a significant number of our employees, including some of our most highly skilled employees with specialized expertise in potash and phosphates operations, will be approaching retirement age throughout the next decade and beyond. in addition, we compete for a talented workforce with other businesses, particularly within the mining and chemicals industries in general and the crop nutrients industry in particular. our expansion plans are highly dependent on our ability to attract, retain and train highly qualified and motivated employees who are essential to the success of our ongoing operations as well as to our 37 table of contents expansion plans. if we were to be unsuccessful in attracting, retaining and training the employees we require, our ongoing operations and expansion plans could be materially and adversely affected. future product or technological innovation could affect our business. future product or technological innovation such as the development of seeds that require less crop nutrients, the development of substitutes for our products or developments in the application of crop nutrients, if they occur, could have the potential to adversely affect the demand for our products and our results of operations, liquidity and capital resources. our acquisition of the global phosphate and potash operations of vale s.a. ( vale ) conducted through vale fertilizantes s.a. (the transaction ) is subject to review under antitrust laws and requires governmental approvals which could jeopardize completion of the acquisition or in some cases impose conditions on the acquisition that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction. completion of the transaction is conditioned upon obtaining certain required governmental authorizations. there can be no assurance that the authorizations will be obtained, and we and the sellers are not obligated to accept any and all conditions imposed by governmental authorities in order to obtain such authorizations. in addition, the governmental authorities with or from which these authorizations are required have broad discretion in administering the governing regulations. as a condition to authorization of the acquisition, these governmental authorities may impose requirements, limitations or costs or require divestitures or place restrictions on our conduct of the business after completion of the transaction. our acceptance of any such divestiture requests or other restrictions on operations could diminish the benefits of the transaction and result in additional transaction costs, loss of revenue or other effects associated with restrictions on business operations. in addition, at any time before or after completion of the acquisition, the antitrust division of the u.s. department of justice or the u.s. federal trade commission, any state or certain foreign governments could take various actions under antitrust, competition or similar laws, including seeking to enjoin the completion of the transaction or to rescind the transaction. private parties also may seek to take legal action under antitrust, competition or similar laws under certain circumstances. a challenge to the transaction on antitrust, competition or similar grounds may be made by any of these governmental or private parties and, if such a challenge is made, it is possible that we and the sellers will not prevail. the transaction is also subject to additional risks, contingencies and uncertainties that could result in delays to completion of the transaction, in the failure of the transaction to be completed or in our inability to realize the anticipated benefits and synergies of the transaction. completion of the transaction is subject to certain additional closing conditions, including (i) the timely completion of restructuring transactions by the sellers, including the transfer of vale fertilizantes s.a.'s cubat o business to vale and its affiliates; (ii) the achievement of certain additional specified regulatory and operational milestones; and (iii) the absence of governmental actions due to the recent water loss incident at our new wales, florida facility that result in a reduction or suspension of operations or increased operating costs at the facility and would be reasonably be expected to materially adversely impact mosaic and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole. any failure to satisfy these conditions could result in delays to completion of the transaction or in the failure of the transaction to be completed. there are also additional risks, contingencies and uncertainties associated with the transaction, including: the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstances that could give rise to the right of a party to terminate the acquisition agreement; that we may not be able to secure financing, or financing on satisfactory terms and in amounts sufficient to fund the cash portion of the purchase price without utilizing our other liquidity sources; that we will continue to incur additional costs and expend significant additional time and effort prior to the closing of the transaction, and if the transaction is delayed or not completed we may not be able to realize any benefit therefrom; possible distraction of our management from ongoing business operations due to the transaction or the integration of vale fertilizantes following the transaction; the impact of the issuance of our common stock as consideration in the transaction on our current stockholders, including dilution of their ownership and voting interests; and 38 table of contents difficulties realizing the anticipated benefits, cost savings or synergies of the transaction, including the risks that: the acquired business may not be integrated successfully or integration involves higher than projected costs, that we have underestimated the liabilities and obligations we are assuming in the transaction, or that the anticipated synergies or cost or capital expenditure savings from the transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected, including because of political and economic instability in brazil or changes in government regulation or policy in brazil, or because the combined operations do not perform as expected. the success of our other strategic initiatives depends on our ability to effectively manage these initiatives, and to successfully integrate and grow acquired businesses. in addition to the transaction, we have other significant ongoing strategic initiatives including, principally our plans to expand the annual production capacity of our potash business and mwspc. these strategic initiatives involve capital and other expenditures of several billions of dollars over a number of years and require effective project management and, in the case of strategic acquisitions, successful integration. to the extent the processes we (or, for the mwspc, we together with ma'aden and sabic) put in place to manage these initiatives or integrate and grow acquired businesses are not effective, our capital expenditure and other costs may exceed our expectations or the benefits we expect from these initiatives might not be fully realized. we may fail to fully realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings of our long-term cf ammonia supply agreement. we use ammonia as a raw material in the production of our concentrated phosphate products. under our long-term cf ammonia supply agreement we have agreed to purchase approximately 545,000 to 725,000 tonnes of ammonia per year during a term that may extend until december 31, 2032 at a price to be determined by a formula based on the prevailing price of u.s. natural gas. the success of this agreement will depend, in part, on our ability to realize cost savings from the agreement's natural gas based pricing. if the price of natural gas rises materially or the market price for ammonia falls outside of the range we currently anticipate over the term of the agreement, we may not realize a cost benefit from the agreement, or the cost of our ammonia under the agreement could be a competitive disadvantage. in addition, our ability to realize benefits and cost savings is subject to certain additional risks including whether cf successfully performs its obligations under the agreement over the life of its commitment and our ability to take delivery of the required minimum annual amount of ammonia over the life of our commitment. we discuss the risks associated with our obligations under this agreement in more detail earlier in this risk factors section. cyber attacks could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse impact on our business. as a global company, we utilize and rely upon information technology systems in many aspects of our business, including internal and external communications and the management of our accounting, financial, production and supply chain functions. as we become more dependent on information technologies to conduct our operations, and as the number and sophistication of cyber attacks increase, the risks associated with cyber security increase. these risks apply both to us, and to third parties on whose systems we rely for the conduct of our business. failure to effectively anticipate, prevent, detect and recover from the increasing number and sophistication of cyber attacks could result in theft, loss or misuse of, or damage or modification of our information, and cause disruptions or delays in our business, reputational damage and third-party claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we have included a discussion about market risks under market risk in the management's analysis that is included in this report in part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . this information is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 21 risk factors. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the risks and uncertainties described below. our esterhazy mine has had an inflow of salt saturated brine for more than 30 years. since december 1985, we have had inflows of salt saturated brine into our esterhazy, saskatchewan mine. over the past century, several potash mines experiencing water inflow problems have flooded. in order to control brine inflows at esterhazy, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, expenditures, certain of which, due to their nature, have been capitalized, while others have been charged to expense. at various times, we experience changing amounts and patterns of brine inflows at the esterhazy mine. periodically, some of these inflows have exceeded available pumping capacity. if that were to continue for several months without abatement, it could exceed our available storage capacity and ability to effectively manage the brine inflow. this could adversely affect production at the esterhazy mine. the brine inflow is variable, resulting in both net inflows (the rate of inflow is more than the amount we are pumping out of the mine) and net outflows (when we are pumping more brine out of the mine than the rate of inflow). there can be no assurance that: our pumping, surface storage, underground storage or injection well capacities for brine will continue to be sufficient, or that the pumping, grouting and other measures that we use to manage the inflows at the esterhazy mine will continue to be effective; there will not be a disruption in the supply of calcium chloride, which is a primary material used to reduce or prevent the flow of incoming brine; 21 table of contents our estimates of the volumes of net inflows or net outflows of brine, or storage capacity for brine at the esterhazy mine, are accurate; the volumes of the brine inflows will not fluctuate from time to time, the rate of the brine inflows will not be greater than our prior experience or current assumptions, changes in inflow patterns will not adversely affect our ability to locate and manage the inflows, or that any such fluctuations, increases or changes would not be material; and the expenditures to control the inflows will be consistent with our prior experience or future estimates. from time to time, new or improved technology becomes available to facilitate our remediation of the inflows, such as when horizontal drilling techniques were developed and refined. taking advantage of these new or improved technologies may require significant capital expenditures and/or may increase our costs of remediation. it is possible that the costs of remedial efforts at esterhazy may further increase in the future and that such an increase could be material, or, in the extreme scenario, that the brine inflows, risk to employees or remediation costs may increase to a level which would cause us to change our mining processes or abandon the mines. see key factors that can affect results of operations and financial condition and potash net sales and gross margin in our management's analysis, which is incorporated herein by reference, for a discussion of costs, risks and other information relating to the brine inflows. due to the ongoing brine inflow at esterhazy, subject to exceptions that are limited in scope and amount, we are unable to obtain insurance coverage for underground operations for water incursion problems. our mines at colonsay, saskatchewan, and carlsbad, new mexico, are also subject to the risks of inflow of water as a result of our shaft mining operations. our operating results are highly dependent upon and fluctuate based upon business and economic conditions and governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry where we or our customers operate. these factors are outside of our control and may significantly affect our profitability. our operating results are highly dependent upon business and economic conditions and governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, which we cannot control. the agricultural products business can be affected by a number of factors. the most important of these factors, for u.s. markets, are: weather patterns and field conditions (particularly during periods of traditionally high crop nutrients consumption); quantities of crop nutrients imported to and exported from north america; current and projected grain inventories and prices, which are heavily influenced by u.s. exports and world-wide grain markets; and u.s. governmental policies, including farm and biofuel policies, which may directly or indirectly influence the number of acres planted, the level of grain inventories, the mix of crops planted or crop prices or otherwise negatively affect our operating results. international market conditions, which are also outside of our control, may also significantly influence our operating results. the international market for crop nutrients is influenced by such factors as the relative value of the u.s. dollar and its impact upon the cost of importing crop nutrients, foreign agricultural policies, including subsidy policies, the existence of, or changes in, import or foreign currency exchange barriers in certain foreign markets, changes in the hard currency demands of certain countries and other regulatory policies of foreign governments, as well as the laws and policies of the united states affecting foreign trade and investment. our most important products are global commodities, and we face intense global competition from other crop nutrient producers that can affect our prices and volumes. our most important products are concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, including diammonium phosphate, or dap, monoammonium phosphate, or map, microessentials and muriate of potash, or mop. we sell most of our dap, map and mop in the form of global commodities. our sales of these products face intense global competition from other crop nutrient producers. changes in competitors' production or shifts in their marketing focus have in the past significantly affected both the prices at which we sell our products and the volumes that we sell, and are likely to continue to do so in the future. competitors are more likely to increase their production at times when world agricultural and crop nutrient markets are strong, and to focus on sales into regions where their returns are highest. increases in the global supply of dap, map and mop or competitors' increased sales into regions in which we have significant sales could adversely affect our prices and volumes. 22 table of contents competitors and potential new entrants in the markets for both concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and potash have in recent years expanded capacity, or begun, or announced plans, to expand capacity or build new facilities. the extent to which current global or local economic and financial conditions, changes in global or local economic and financial conditions, or other factors may cause delays or cancellation of some of these ongoing or planned projects, or result in the acceleration of existing or new projects, is unclear. in addition, the level of exports by producers of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients in china depends to a significant extent on chinese government actions to curb exports through, among other measures, prohibitive export taxes at times when the government believes it desirable to assure ample domestic supplies of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients to stimulate grain and oilseed production. in addition, the other member of canpotex is among our competitors who are expanding their potash production capacity. canpotex members' respective shares of canpotex sales is based upon the members' respective proven peaking capacity for producing potash. when a canpotex member expands its production capacity, the new capacity is added to that member's proven peaking capacity based on a proving run at the maximum production level. alternatively, after january 2017, canpotex members may elect to rely on an independent engineering firm and approved protocols to calculate their proven peaking capacity. antitrust and competition laws prohibit the members of canpotex from coordinating their production decisions, including the timing of their respective proving runs. worldwide potash production levels during these proving runs could exceed then-current market demand, resulting in an oversupply of potash and lower potash prices. we cannot accurately predict when or whether competitors' or new entrants' ongoing or planned capacity expansions or new facilities will be completed, the timing of competitors' tests to prove peaking capacity for canpotex purposes, the cumulative effect of these and recently completed expansions, the impact of future decisions by the chinese government on the level of chinese exports of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, or the effects of these or other actions by our competitors on the prices for our products or the volumes that we will be able to sell. our crop nutrients and other products are subject to price and demand volatility resulting from periodic imbalances of supply and demand, which may cause our results of operations to fluctuate. historically, the market for crop nutrients has been cyclical, and prices and demand for our products have fluctuated to a significant extent, particularly for phosphates and, to a lesser extent, potash. periods of high demand, increasing profits and high capacity utilization tend to lead to new plant investment and increased production. this growth increases supply until the market is over-saturated, leading to declining prices and declining capacity utilization until the cycle repeats. as a result, crop nutrient prices and volumes have been volatile. this price and volume volatility may cause our results of operations to fluctuate and potentially deteriorate. the price at which we sell our crop nutrient products and our sales volumes could fall in the event of industry oversupply conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in contrast, high prices may lead our customers and farmers to delay purchasing decisions in anticipation of future lower prices, thus impacting our sales volumes. due to reduced market demand, depressed agricultural economic conditions and other factors, we and our predecessors have at various times suspended or reduced production at some of our facilities. the extent to which we utilize available capacity at our facilities will cause fluctuations in our results of operations, as we will incur costs for any temporary or indefinite shutdowns of our facilities and lower sales tend to lead to higher fixed costs as a percentage of sales. variations in crop nutrient application rates may exacerbate the cyclicality of the crop nutrient markets. farmers are able to maximize their economic return by applying optimum amounts of crop nutrients. farmers' decisions about the application rate for each crop nutrient, or to forego application of a crop nutrient, particularly phosphate and potash, vary from year to year depending on a number of factors, including among others, crop prices, crop nutrient and other crop input costs or the level of the crop nutrient remaining in the soil following the previous harvest. farmers are more likely to increase application rates when crop prices are relatively high, crop nutrient and other crop input costs are relatively low and the level of the crop nutrient remaining in the soil is relatively low. conversely, farmers are likely to reduce or forego application when farm economics are weak or declining or the level of the crop nutrients remaining in the soil is relatively high. this variability in application rates can materially accentuate the cyclicality in prices for our products and our sales volumes. 23 table of contents our crop nutrient business is seasonal, which may result in carrying significant amounts of inventory and seasonal variations in working capital, and our inability to predict future seasonal crop nutrient demand accurately may result in excess inventory or product shortages. the crop nutrient business is seasonal. farmers tend to apply crop nutrients during two short application periods, the strongest one in the spring before planting and the other in the fall after harvest. as a result, the strongest demand for our products typically occurs during the spring planting season, with a second period of strong demand following the fall harvest. in contrast, we and other crop nutrient producers generally produce our products throughout the year. as a result, we and/or our customers generally build inventories during the low demand periods of the year in order to ensure timely product availability during the peak sales seasons. the seasonality of crop nutrient demand results in our sales volumes and net sales typically being the highest during the north american spring season and our working capital requirements typically being the highest just prior to the start of the spring season. our quarterly financial results can vary significantly from one year to the next due to weather-related shifts in planting schedules and purchasing patterns. if seasonal demand exceeds our projections, we will not have enough product and our customers may acquire products from our competitors, which would negatively impact our profitability. if seasonal demand is less than we expect, we will be left with excess inventory and higher working capital and liquidity requirements. the degree of seasonality of our business can change significantly from year to year due to conditions in the agricultural industry and other factors. the distribution channels for crop nutrients have capacity to build significant levels of inventories, which can adversely affect our sales volumes and selling prices. in order to balance the production needs of crop nutrient producers with farmers' seasonal use of crop nutrients, crop nutrient distribution channels need to have the capacity to build significant inventories. the build-up of inventories in the distribution channels can become excessive, particularly during the cyclical periods of low demand that have been typical in the crop nutrient industry. when there are excessive inventories in the distribution channel, our sales volumes and selling prices can be adversely impacted, even during periods in which farmers' use of crop nutrients may remain strong. changes in transportation costs can affect our sales volumes and selling prices. the cost of delivery is a significant factor in the total cost to customers and farmers of crop nutrients. as a result, changes in transportation costs or in customer expectations about them can affect our sales volumes and prices. customer expectations about future events can have a significant effect on the demand for our products. these expectations can significantly affect our sales volumes and selling prices. customer expectations about future events have had and are expected to continue to have an effect on the demand and prices for crop nutrients. future events that may be affected by customer expectations include, among others: customer expectations about future crop nutrient prices and availability. customer expectations about selling prices and availability of crop nutrients have had and are expected to continue to have an effect on the demand for crop nutrients. when customers anticipate increasing crop nutrient selling prices, customers tend to accumulate inventories before the anticipated price increases. this can result in a lag in our realization of rising market prices for our products. conversely, customers tend to delay their purchases when they anticipate future selling prices for crop nutrients will stabilize or decrease, adversely affecting our sales volumes and selling prices. customer expectations about availability of crop nutrients can have similar effects on sales volumes and prices. customer expectations about future farmer economics. similarly, customer expectations about future farmer economics have had and are expected to continue to have an effect on the demand for crop nutrients. when customers anticipate improving farmer economics, customers tend to accumulate crop nutrient inventories in anticipation of increasing sales volumes and selling prices. this can result in a lag in our realization of rising market prices for our products. conversely, when customers anticipate declining farmer economics, customers tend to reduce the level of their purchases of crop nutrients, adversely affecting our sales volumes and selling prices. changes in customer expectations about transportation costs. 24 table of contents as discussed above, increasing transportation costs effectively increase customers' and farmers' costs for crop nutrients and can reduce the amount we realize for our sales. expectations of decreasing transportation costs can result in customers and farmers anticipating that they may be able to decrease their costs by delaying purchases. as a result, changes in customer expectations about transportation costs can affect our sales volumes and prices. we conduct our operations primarily through a limited number of key production and distribution facilities. any disruption at one of these facilities could have a material adverse impact on our business. the risk of material disruption increases when demand for our products results in high operating rates at our facilities. we conduct our operations through a limited number of key production and distribution facilities. these facilities include our phosphate mines and concentrates plants; our potash mines; and the ports and other distribution facilities through which we, canpotex and any joint ventures in which we participate, conduct our respective businesses, as well as other commercial arrangements with unrelated third parties. any disruption of operations at one of these facilities has the possibility of significantly affecting our production or our ability to distribute our products. operating these facilities at high rates during periods of high demand for our products increases the risk of mechanical or structural failures, decreases the time available for routine maintenance and increases the impact on our operating results from any disruption. a disruption of operations at one of our key facilities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. examples of the types of events that could result in a disruption at one of these facilities include: adverse weather; strikes or other work stoppages; deliberate, malicious acts, including acts of terrorism; political and economic instability; cyber attacks and other risks associated with our international operations; changes in permitting, financial assurance or other environmental, health and safety laws or other changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate; legal and regulatory proceedings; our relationships with other member of canpotex and any joint ventures in which we participate and their or our exit from participation in canpotex or any such joint ventures; other changes in our commercial arrangements with unrelated third parties; brine inflows at our esterhazy, saskatchewan, mine or our other shaft mines; mechanical failure and accidents occurring in the course of operating activities; and other factors. insurance market conditions, our loss experience and other factors affect the insurance coverage that we carry, and we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. as a result, our insurance coverage may not adequately cover our losses. we maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance policies, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. we are subject to various self-retentions and deductibles under these insurance policies. as a result of market conditions, our loss experience and other factors, our premiums, self-retentions and deductibles for insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. in addition, significantly increased costs could lead us to decide to reduce, or possibly eliminate, coverage. as a result, a disruption of operations at one of our key facilities or a significant casualty could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. important raw materials and energy used in our businesses in the past have been and may in the future be the subject of volatile pricing. changes in the price of our raw materials could have a material impact on our businesses. natural gas, ammonia and sulfur are key raw materials used in the manufacture of phosphate crop nutrient products. natural gas is used as both a chemical feedstock and a fuel to produce anhydrous ammonia, which is a raw material used in the production of concentrated phosphate products. natural gas is also a significant energy source used in the potash solution mining process. from time to time, our profitability has been and may in the future be impacted by the price and availability of these raw materials and other energy costs. because most of our products are commodities, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass through increased costs to our customers. a significant increase in the price of natural gas, ammonia, sulfur or energy costs that is not recovered through an increase in the price of our related crop nutrients products could have a material adverse impact on our business. in addition, under our long-term cf ammonia supply agreement we have agreed to purchase approximately 545,000 to 725,000 tonnes of ammonia per year during a term that may extend until december 31, 2032 at a price to be determined by a formula based on the prevailing price of u.s. natural gas. if the price of natural gas rises or the market price for ammonia falls outside of the range anticipated at execution of the agreement, we may not realize a cost benefit from the natural gas based pricing over the term of the agreement, or the cost of our ammonia under the agreement could be a competitive disadvantage. 25 table of contents during periods when the price for concentrated phosphates is falling because of falling raw material prices, we may experience a lag in realizing the benefits of the falling raw materials prices. this lag can adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. during some periods, changes in market prices for raw materials can lead to changes in the global market prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients. in particular, the global market prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients can be affected by changes in the market prices for sulfur, ammonia, phosphate rock and/or phosphoric acid raw materials. increasing market prices for these raw materials tend to put upward pressure on the selling prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, and decreasing market prices for these raw materials tend to put downward pressure on selling prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients. when the market prices for these raw materials plunge rapidly, the selling prices for our concentrated phosphate crop nutrients can fall more rapidly than we are able to consume our raw material inventory that we purchased or committed to purchase in the past at higher prices. as a result, our costs may not fall as rapidly as the selling prices of our products. until we are able to consume the higher priced raw materials, our gross margins and profitability can be adversely affected. during periods when the prices for our products are falling because of falling raw material prices, we could be required to write-down the value of our inventories. any such write-down would adversely affect our results of operations and the level of our assets. we carry our inventories at the lower of cost or market. in periods when the market prices for our products are falling rapidly, including in response to falling market prices for raw materials, it is possible that we could be required to write-down the value of our inventories if market prices fall below our costs. any such write-down would adversely affect our results of operations and the level of our assets. any such effect could be material. our estimates of future selling prices reflect in part the purchase commitments we have from our customers. as a result, defaults on these existing purchase commitments because of the global or local economic and financial conditions or for other reasons could adversely affect our estimates of future selling prices and require additional inventory write-downs. in the event of a disruption to existing terminaling facilities or transportation for our products or raw materials, alternative terminaling facilities or transportation might not be available on a timely basis or have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our customers or facilities. in the event of a disruption of existing terminaling facilities or transportation for our products or raw materials, alternative terminaling facilities or transportation might not be available on a timely basis or have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our customers or facilities. terminaling facilities and transportation include the ports and other distribution facilities through which we, canpotex and the joint ventures in which we participate, conduct our respective businesses; transportation and related equipment arrangements; and other commercial arrangements with unrelated third parties. examples of the types of events that could result in a disruption of terminaling facilities or transportation include: adverse weather; strikes or other work stoppages; deliberate, malicious acts; political and economic instability and other risks associated with our international operations; changes in permitting, financial assurance or other environmental, health and safety laws or other changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate; legal and regulatory proceedings; our relationships with other member of canpotex and any joint ventures in which we participate and their or our exit from participation in canpotex or any such joint ventures; other changes in our commercial arrangements with unrelated third parties; accidents occurring in the course of operating activities; lack of truck, rail, barge or ship transportation; and other factors. we discuss a number of these examples in more detail throughout this risk factors section. we are subject to risks associated with our international sales and operations, which could negatively affect our sales to customers in foreign countries as well as our operations and assets in foreign countries. some of these factors may also make it less attractive to distribute cash generated by our operations outside the united states to our stockholders, or to utilize cash generated by our operations in one country to fund our operations or repayments of indebtedness in another country or to support other corporate purposes. for 2017 , we derived approximately 64% of our net sales from customers located outside of the united states, of which our international distribution segment accounted for 57%. as a result, we are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: difficulties and costs associated with complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; 26 table of contents unexpected changes in regulatory environments; increased government ownership and regulation of the economy in the countries we serve; political and economic instability, including the possibility for civil unrest, inflation and adverse economic conditions resulting from governmental attempts to reduce inflation, such as imposition of higher interest rates and wage and price controls; nationalization of properties by foreign governments; the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls, trade barriers or other restrictions, or government-imposed increases in the cost of resources and materials necessary for the conduct of our operations or the completion of strategic initiatives, including with respect to our joint ventures; and currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies, particularly the brazilian real and the canadian dollar. the occurrence of any of the above in the countries in which we operate or elsewhere could jeopardize or limit our ability to transact business there and could adversely affect our revenues and operating results and the value of our assets located outside of the united states. in addition, tax regulations, currency exchange controls and other restrictions may also make it economically unattractive to: distribute cash generated by our operations outside the united states to our stockholders; or utilize cash generated by our operations in one country to fund our operations or repayments of indebtedness in another country or to support other corporate purposes. changes in tax laws or regulations or their interpretation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities, could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we are subject to taxes, including income taxes, resource taxes and royalties, and other non-income based taxes in the u.s., canada, china, brazil and other countries where we operate. changes in tax laws or regulations or their interpretation could result in higher taxes, which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our international assets are located in countries with volatile conditions, which could subject us and our assets to significant risks. we are a global business with substantial assets located outside of the united states and canada. our operations in brazil, china, india and paraguay are a fundamental part of our business. we have a majority interest in the joint venture entity operating the miski mayo mine in peru that supplies phosphate rock to us. we also have a joint venture investment in mwspc, which is developing a mine and chemical complexes that we presently expect to produce phosphate fertilizers and other downstream products in the kingdom of saudi arabia. volatile economic, political and market conditions in these and other emerging market countries may have a negative impact on our operations, operating results and financial condition. in addition, unfavorable changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, or governmental actions and policies and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and the pricing and sourcing of our raw materials, may also have a negative impact on our operations, operating results and financial condition. natural resource extraction is an important part of the economy in peru, and, in the past, there have been protests against other natural resource operations in peru. as of the date of this report, there remain numerous social conflicts that exist within the natural resource sector in peru and as a result there is potential for active protests against natural resource companies. if the government of peru's proactive efforts to address the social and environmental issues surrounding natural resource activities were not successful, protests could extend to or impact the miski mayo mine and adversely affect our interest in the miski mayo joint venture or the supply of phosphate rock to us from the mine. adverse weather conditions, including the impact of hurricanes, and excess heat, cold, snow, rainfall and drought, have in the past, and may in the future, adversely affect our operations, particularly our phosphates business, and result in increased costs, decreased production and potential liabilities. adverse weather conditions, including the impact of hurricanes and excess heat, cold, snow, rainfall and drought, have in the past and may in the future adversely affect our operations, particularly our phosphates business. in the past, hurricanes have resulted in minor physical damage to our facilities in florida and louisiana. in addition, a release of process wastewater at our riverview, florida facility during a 2004 hurricane resulted in a small civil fine, settlement for an immaterial amount of claims for natural resource damages by governmental agencies and an ongoing private lawsuit. 27 table of contents additionally, water treatment costs, particularly at our florida operations, due to high water balances tend to increase significantly following excess rainfall from hurricanes or other adverse weather. some of our florida facilities have had or could have high water levels that may require treatment. high water balances in the past at phosphate facilities in florida also led the florida department of environmental protection ( fdep ) to adopt new rules requiring phosphate production facilities to meet more stringent process water management objectives for phosphogypsum management systems. if additional excess rainfall or hurricanes occur in coming years, our facilities may be required to take additional measures to manage process water to comply with existing or future requirements and these measures could potentially have a material effect on our business and financial condition. adverse weather may also cause a loss of production due to disruptions in our supply chain or adversely affect delivery of our products to our customers. for example, oil refineries that supply sulfur to us may suspend operations as a result of a hurricane and incoming shipments of ammonia can be delayed, disrupting production at our florida or louisiana facilities and delivery of our products. drought can also adversely affect us. for example, drought can reduce farmers' crop yields and the uptake of phosphates and potash, reducing the need for application of additional phosphates and potash for the next planting season. drought can also lower river levels, adversely affecting delivery of our products to our customers. our operations are dependent on having the required permits and approvals from governmental authorities. denial or delay by a government agency in issuing any of our permits and approvals or imposition of restrictive conditions on us with respect to these permits and approvals may impair our business and operations. we hold numerous governmental environmental, mining and other permits and approvals authorizing operations at each of our facilities. our ability to continue operations at a facility could be materially affected by a government agency decision to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed permit or approval, to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval or to substantially change conditions applicable to a permit modification, or by legal actions that successfully challenge our permits. expanding our operations or extending operations into new areas is also predicated upon securing the necessary environmental or other permits or approvals. we have been engaged in, and over the next several years, we and our subsidiaries will be continuing our, efforts to obtain permits in support of our anticipated florida mining operations at certain of our properties. a denial of our permits, the issuance of permits with cost-prohibitive conditions, substantial delays in issuing key permits, or legal actions that prevent us from relying on permits or revocation of permits, could prevent us from mining at certain of our properties and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for example: in florida, local community involvement has become an increasingly important factor in the permitting process for mining companies, and various counties and other parties in florida have in the past filed and continue to file lawsuits challenging the issuance of some of the permits we require. these actions can significantly delay permit issuance. delays in receiving a federal wetlands permit impacted the scheduled progression of mining activities for the extension of our south fort meade, florida, phosphate rock mine into hardee county. as a result, we began to idle a portion of our mining equipment at the mine in the latter part of fiscal 2010. in june 2010, the u.s. army corps of engineers, or corps, issued the federal wetlands permit. subsequently, certain non-governmental organizations filed another lawsuit in the united states district court for the middle district of florida, jacksonville division, contesting the issuance of this federal wetlands permit, alleging that the corps' actions in issuing the permit violated several federal laws relating to the protection of the environment. preliminary injunctions entered into in connection with this lawsuit resulted in shutdowns or reduced production at our south fort meade mine until april 2012. following a settlement of the lawsuit in february 2012 and court approval, we were able to resume normal production at our south fort meade mine. the periods of shutdown and reduced phosphate rock production at our south fort meade mine resulted in costs to suspend operations and idle plant costs. lower phosphate rock mining production levels also adversely affected gross margin. 28 table of contents we have included additional discussion about permitting for our phosphate mines in florida under environmental, health, safety and security matters operating requirements and impacts permitting in our management's analysis. we are subject to financial assurance requirements as part of our routine business operations. these financial assurance requirements affect our costs and increase our liquidity requirements. if we were unable to satisfy applicable financial assurance requirements, we might not be able to obtain or maintain permits we need to operate our business as we have in the past. our need to comply with these requirements could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. in many cases, as a condition to procuring or maintaining permits and approvals or otherwise, we are required to comply with financial assurance requirements of governmental authorities. the purpose of these requirements is to provide comfort to the government that sufficient funds will be available for the ultimate closure, post-closure care and/or reclamation of our facilities. in some cases we are able to comply through the satisfaction of applicable state financial strength tests, but if we are unable to do so, we must utilize alternative methods of complying with the financial assurance requirements or we could be subject to enforcement proceedings brought by relevant government agencies. potential alternative methods of compliance include providing credit support in the form of cash escrows or trusts, surety bonds from insurance companies, letters of credit from banks, or other forms of financial instruments or collateral to satisfy the financial assurance requirements or negotiating a consent agreement that establishes a different form of financial assurance. use of alternative means of financial assurance imposes additional expense on us. some of them, such as letters of credit, also use a portion of our available liquidity. other alternative means of financial assurance, such as surety bonds, may in some cases require collateral and generally require us to obtain a discharge of the bonds or to post additional collateral (typically in the form of cash or letters of credit) at the request of the issuer of the bonds. collateral that is required may be in many forms including letters of credit or other financial instruments that utilize a portion of our available liquidity, or in the form of assets such as real estate, which reduces our flexibility to manage or sell assets. for example: with respect to two facilities we acquired as part of our acquisition of the florida phosphate assets and assumption of certain related liabilities of cf (the cf phosphate assets acquisition ), (i) we have funded a trust to meet florida state regulations governing financial assurance related to the post-closure care of the phosphogypsum stack at our closed bonnie facility in florida, and (ii) under the terms of a consent decree with federal and state regulators we currently provide credit support in the form of a surety bond from insurance companies, as a means of financial assurance for closure and post-closure care requirements for the phosphogypsum stack at our plant city, florida facility. these financial assurance funding obligations require estimates of future expenditures that could be impacted by refinements in scope, technological developments, cost inflation, changes in regulations, discount rates and the timing of activities. additional funding could be required in the future if increases in cost estimates exceed the amount held in the trust or face amount of the surety bond, as applicable. in addition, with respect to the plant city facility, our use of a surety bond may in some cases require that we obtain a discharge of the bond or post collateral at the request of the issuers of the bond. required collateral may be in many forms including letters of credit or other financial instruments that utilize a portion of our available liquidity. any of these circumstances could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. as more fully discussed in note 13 of our notes to consolidated financial statements, in 2016 under the terms of two consent decrees with federal and state regulators we deposited a total of $630 million into two trust funds to provide additional financial assurance for the estimated costs of closure and post-closure care of most of our other phosphogypsum management systems in florida (excluding those acquired as part of the cf phosphate assets acquisition) and louisiana. as required under one of the consent decrees, we have also issued a $50 million letter of credit to further support our financial assurance obligations. we have also agreed to guarantee the difference between the amounts held in each trust fund (including earnings) and the estimated closure and long-term care costs. compliance with the financial assurance requirements included in these consent decrees satisfies substantially all of our state financial assurance obligations relating to the covered facilities, which were historically satisfied without the need for any expenditure of corporate funds to the extent our financial statements met certain balance sheet and income statement financial strength tests. in the past, we have also not always been able to satisfy applicable financial strength tests, and in the future, it is possible that we will not be able to pass the applicable financial strength tests, negotiate or receive approval of consent decrees, establish escrow or trust accounts or obtain letters of credit, surety bonds or other financial instruments on acceptable terms and 29 table of contents conditions or at a reasonable cost, or that the form and/or cost of compliance could increase, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. we have included additional discussion about financial assurance requirements under off balance sheet arrangements and obligations other commercial commitments in our management's analysis. the other environmental regulations to which we are subject may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition to permitting and financial assurance requirements, we are subject to numerous other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the u.s., canada, china, brazil and other countries where we operate. these laws and regulations govern a wide range of matters, including environmental controls, land reclamation, discharges to air and water and remediation of hazardous substance releases. they significantly affect our operating activities as well as the level of our operating costs and capital expenditures. in some international jurisdictions, environmental laws change frequently and it may be difficult for us to determine if we are in compliance with all material environmental laws at any given time. we are, and may in the future be, involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that could be material to us. these proceedings include legacy matters arising from activities of our predecessor companies and from facilities and businesses that we have never owned or operated. we have in the past been, are currently and may in the future be subject to legal and regulatory proceedings that could be material to our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. joint ventures in which we participate could also become subject to these sorts of proceedings. these proceedings may be brought by the government or private parties and may arise out of a variety of matters, including: allegations by the government or private parties that we have violated the permitting, financial assurance or other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations discussed above. for example, in connection with our settlement of matters relating to the u.s. environmental protection agency's ongoing review of mineral processing industries under the u.s. resource conservation and recovery act, we entered into the consent decrees discussed above and in note 13 of our notes to consolidated financial statements, which required us to provide additional financial assurance as described above, pay cash penalties of approximately $8 million in the aggregate, and modify certain operating practices and undertake certain capital improvement projects over a period of several years that are expected to result in capital expenditures likely to exceed $200 million in the aggregate. we are also involved in other proceedings alleging that, or to review whether, we have violated environmental laws in the united states and brazil. other environmental, health and safety matters, including alleged personal injury, wrongful death, complaints that our operations are adversely impacting nearby farms and other business operations, other property damage, subsidence from mining operations, natural resource damages and other damage to the environment, arising out of operations, including accidents. for example, several actions were initiated by the government and private parties related to a release of phosphoric acid process wastewater at our riverview, florida facility during a 2004 hurricane. in addition, a putative class action lawsuit was filed following the water loss incident that occurred at our new wales, florida facility in 2016 and in connection with that incident we also entered into an administrative consent order with the fdep as discussed in greater detail in note 21 of our notes to consolidated financial statements. antitrust, commercial, tax (including tax audits) and other disputes. for example, we were one of a number of defendants in multiple class-action lawsuits, in which the plaintiffs sought unspecified amounts of damages including treble damages, alleging that we and other defendants conspired to, among other matters, fix the price at which potash was sold in the united states, allocated market shares and customers and fraudulently concealed their anticompetitive conduct. in january 2013, we settled these class action antitrust lawsuits for an aggregate of $43.8 million. the legal and regulatory proceedings to which we are currently or may in the future be subject can, depending on the circumstances, result in monetary damage awards, fines, penalties, other liabilities, injunctions or other court or administrative rulings that interrupt, impede or otherwise materially affect our business operations, and/or criminal sanctions. among other environmental laws, the u.s. comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act ( cercla ) imposes liability, including for cleanup costs, without regard to fault or to the legality of a party's conduct, on certain categories of persons, including current and former owners and operators of a site and parties who are considered to have contributed to the release of hazardous substances into the environment. under cercla, or various u.s. state analogues, a party may, under certain circumstances, be required to bear more than its proportional share of cleanup costs at a 30 table of contents site where it has liability if payments cannot be obtained from other responsible parties. as a crop nutrient company working with chemicals and other hazardous substances, we will periodically incur liabilities and cleanup costs, under cercla and other environmental laws, with regard to our current or former facilities, adjacent or nearby third-party facilities or offsite disposal locations. pending and potential legal and regulatory proceedings may arise out of our present activities, including operations at current facilities. they may also arise out of past activities by us, our predecessor companies and subsidiaries that our predecessors have sold. these past activities were in some cases at facilities that we and our subsidiaries no longer own or operate and may have never owned or operated. settlements of legal and regulatory matters frequently require court approval. in the event a court were not to approve of a settlement, it is possible that we and the other party or parties to the matter might not be able to settle it on terms that were acceptable to all parties or that we could be required to accept more stringent terms of settlement than required by the opposing parties. we have included additional information with respect to pending legal and regulatory proceedings in note 21 of our notes to consolidated financial statements and in this report in part i, item 3, legal proceedings . these legal and regulatory proceedings involve inherent uncertainties and could negatively impact our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. the permitting, financial assurance and other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations to which we are subject may become more stringent over time. this could increase the effects on us of these laws and regulations, and the increased effects could be material. continued government and public emphasis on environmental, health and safety issues in the u.s., canada, china, brazil, paraguay and other countries where we operate can be expected to result in requirements that apply to us and our operations that are more stringent than those that are described above and elsewhere in this report. these more stringent requirements may include among other matters increased levels of future investments and expenditures for environmental controls at ongoing operations which will be charged against income from future operations, increased levels of the financial assurance requirements to which we are subject, increased efforts or costs to obtain permits or denial of permits, other new or interpretations of existing statutes or regulations that impose new or more stringent restrictions or liabilities, including liabilities or additional financial assurance requirements under cercla or similar statutes, including restrictions or liabilities related to elevated levels of naturally-occurring radiation that arise from disturbing the ground in the course of mining activities, and other matters that could increase our expenses, capital requirements or liabilities or adversely affect our business, liquidity or financial condition. in addition, to the extent restrictions imposed in countries where our competitors operate, such as china, india, former soviet union countries or morocco, are less stringent than in the countries where we operate, our competitors could gain cost or other competitive advantages over us. these effects could be material. among other matters, in recent years there have been a number of initiatives relating to nutrient discharges. new regulatory restrictions from these initiatives could have a material effect on either us or our customers. for example, the gulf coast ecosystem restoration task force, established by executive order of the president and comprised of five gulf states and eleven federal agencies, delivered a final strategy for long-term ecosystem restoration for the gulf coast in 2016. the strategy calls for, among other matters, reduction of the flow of excess nutrients into the gulf through state nutrient reduction frameworks, new nutrient reduction approaches and reduction of agricultural and urban sources of excess nutrients. implementation of the strategy will require legislative or regulatory action at the state level. we cannot predict what the requirements of any such legislative or regulatory action could be or whether or how it would affect us or our customers. in addition, in april 2014, epa and the corps jointly issued a proposed rule that would redefine the scope of waters regulated under the federal clean water act. the final rule (the clean water rule ) became effective in august 2015, but has been challenged through numerous lawsuits. in october 2015, the u.s. court of appeals for the sixth circuit issued an order staying the effectiveness of the final rule until after the legal validity of the regulation is resolved. in early 2017, the united states president issued an executive order directing epa and the corps to publish a proposed rule rescinding or revising the new rule. in june 2017, epa and the corps issued a proposed rule that would rescind the clean water rule and re-codify regulatory text that existed prior to enactment of the clean water rule. in november 2017, epa issued a rule notice proposing to extend the applicability date of the clean water rule for two years from the date of final action on the proposed rule, to provide continuity and regulatory certainty while agencies proceed to consider potential changes to the clean water rule. we believe the clean water rule, if not rescinded, would expand the types and extent of water resources regulated under federal law, thereby potentially expanding our permitting and reporting requirements, increasing our costs of 31 table of contents compliance, including costs associated with wetlands and stream mitigation, lengthening the time necessary to obtain permits, and potentially restricting our ability to mine certain of our phosphate rock reserves. these effects could be material. regulatory restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions and climate change regulations in the united states, canada or elsewhere could adversely affect us, and these effects could be material. various governmental initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions are under way or under consideration around the world. these initiatives could restrict our operating activities, require us to make changes in our operating activities that would increase our operating costs, reduce our efficiency or limit our output, require us to make capital improvements to our facilities, increase our energy, raw material and transportation costs or limit their availability, or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, and these effects could be material to us. governmental greenhouse gas emission initiatives include, among others , the december 2015 agreement (the paris agreement ) which was the outcome of the 21 st session of the conference of the parties under the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc). the paris agreement, which was signed by nearly 200 nations including the united states and canada, entered into force in late 2016 and sets out a goal of limiting the average rise in temperatures for this century to below 2 degrees celsius. each signatory is expected to develop its own plan (referred to as a nationally determined contribution, or ndc ) for reaching that goal. in may 2017, the united states president announced that the united states would withdraw from the paris agreement. under article 28 of that agreement, the earliest such a withdrawal could be effective is november 2020. in 2015, prior to this announcement, the united states had submitted an ndc aiming to achieve, by 2025, an economy-wide target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 26-28% below its 2005 level. the ndc also aims to use best efforts to reduce emissions by 28%. the u.s. target covers all greenhouse gases that were a part of the 2014 inventory of greenhouse gas emissions and sinks. while it is unclear whether the u.s. executive administration will proceed to withdraw from the paris agreement, various legislative or regulatory initiatives relating to greenhouse gases have been adopted or considered by the u.s. congress, epa or various states and those initiatives already adopted may be used to implement the u.s.'s ndc. additionally, more stringent laws and regulations may be enacted to accomplish the goals set out in the ndc. canada's intended ndc aims to achieve, by 2030, an economy-wide target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 30% below 2005 levels. in late 2016, the federal government announced plans for a comprehensive tax on carbon emissions, under which provinces opting out of the tax would have the option of adopting a cap-and-trade system. in the plans, the federal government also committed to implementing a federal carbon pricing backstop system that will apply in any province or territory that does not have a carbon pricing system in place by 2018. while no tax has formally been proposed, as implementation of the paris agreement proceeds, more stringent laws and regulations may be enacted to accomplish the goals set out in canada's ndc. in addition, the province of saskatchewan, in which our canadian potash mines are located, has publicly stated that a carbon pricing system will not be implemented in the province and that legal action will be sought against the federal government, if necessary. in december 2017, saskatchewan announced a comprehensive plan to address climate change that does not include an economy-wide price on carbon but does include a system of tariffs and credits for large emitters. the plan is subject to federal review and approval in late 2018. our saskatchewan potash facilities will continue to work with the saskatchewan ministry of environment and environment and climate change canada, through participation in industry associations, to determine next steps. we will also continue to monitor developments relating to the anticipated proposed legislation, as well as the potential future effect on our operating activities, energy, raw material and transportation costs, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources. it is possible that future legislation or regulation addressing climate change, including in response to the paris agreement or any new international agreements, could adversely affect our operating activities, energy, raw material and transportation costs, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, and these effects could be material or adversely impact our competitive advantage. in addition, to the extent climate change restrictions imposed in countries where our competitors operate, such as china, india, former soviet union countries or morocco, are less stringent than in the united states or canada, our competitors could gain cost or other competitive advantages over us. future climate change could adversely affect us. the prospective impact of climate change on our operations and those of our customers and farmers remains uncertain. scientists have hypothesized that the impacts of climate change could include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperature levels and that these changes could be severe. these impacts could vary by geographic location. severe climate change could impact our costs and operating activities, the location and cost of global grain and oilseed production, and the supply and demand for grains and oilseeds. at 32 table of contents the present time, we cannot predict the prospective impact of climate change on our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, or whether any such effects could be material to us. some of our competitors and potential competitors have greater resources than we do, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage and adversely affect our sales and profitability. these competitors include state-owned and government-subsidized entities in other countries. we compete with a number of producers throughout the world, including state-owned and government-subsidized entities. some of these entities may have greater total resources than we do, and may be less dependent on earnings from crop nutrients sales than we are. in addition, some of these entities may have access to lower cost or government-subsidized natural gas supplies, placing us at a competitive disadvantage. furthermore, certain governments as owners of some of our competitors may be willing to accept lower prices and profitability on their products in order to support domestic employment or other political or social goals. to the extent other producers of crop nutrients enjoy competitive advantages or are willing to accept lower profit levels, the price of our products, our sales volumes and our profits may be adversely affected. we do not own a controlling equity interest in our non-consolidated companies, some of which are foreign companies, and therefore our operating results and cash flow may be materially affected by how the governing boards and majority owners operate such businesses. there may also be limitations on monetary distributions from these companies that are outside of our control. together, these factors may lower our equity earnings or cash flow from such businesses and negatively impact our results of operations. in 2013, we entered into an agreement to form mwspc, a joint venture to develop a mine and chemical complexes for an estimated $8.0 billion that is expected to produce phosphate fertilizers and other downstream products in the kingdom of saudi arabia. we have a 25% interest in the joint venture and expect our cash investment will be up to $840 million , approximately $770 million of which had been funded as of december 31, 2017. we also expect to provide financial guarantees with respect to our proportionate share of approximately $140 million of certain funding facilities obtained by mwspc. the success of mwspc will depend on, among other matters, the completion of development and full commencement of operations of production facilities in the kingdom of saudi arabia, the future success of current plans for completion of the development and for the operation of mwspc, including the availability and affordability of necessary resources and materials and access to appropriate infrastructure, and any future changes in those plans, as well as the general economic and political stability of the region. we also hold minority ownership interests in companies that are not controlled by us. we expect that the operations and results of mwspc will be, and the operations or results of some of the other companies are, significant to us, and their operations can affect our earnings. because we do not control these companies either at the board or stockholder levels and because local laws in foreign jurisdictions and contractual obligations may place restrictions on monetary distributions by these companies, we cannot ensure that these companies will operate efficiently (or, in the case of mwspc, in compliance with the terms of any funding facility for which we may provide financial guarantees), pay dividends, or generally follow the desires of our management by virtue of our board or stockholder representation. as a result, these companies may contribute less than anticipated to our earnings and cash flow, negatively impacting our results of operations and liquidity. additionally, in the case of mwspc we may be called upon to provide funds to satisfy mwspc's debt obligations to the extent we provide financial guarantees in connection with its funding facilities. strikes or other forms of work stoppage or slowdown could disrupt our business and lead to increased costs. our financial performance is dependent on a reliable and productive work force. a significant portion of our workforce, and that of the joint ventures in which we participate, is covered by collective bargaining agreements with unions. unsuccessful contract negotiations or adverse labor relations could result in strikes or slowdowns. any disruptions may decrease our production and sales or impose additional costs to resolve disputes. the risk of adverse labor relations may increase as our profitability increases because labor unions' expectations and demands generally rise at those times. accidents occurring in the course of our operating activities could result in significant liabilities, interruptions or shutdowns of facilities or the need for significant safety or other expenditures. we engage in mining and industrial activities that can result in serious accidents. if our safety procedures are not effective, or if an accident occurs, we could be subject to liabilities arising out of personal injuries or death, our operations could be interrupted and we might have to shut down or abandon affected facilities. accidents could cause us to expend significant amounts to remediate safety issues or to repair damaged facilities. for example: 33 table of contents some of our mines are subject to potential damage from earthquakes. the excavation of mines can result in potential seismic events or can increase the likelihood or potential severity of a seismic event. the rise and fall of water levels, such as those arising from the brine inflows and our remediation activities at our esterhazy mine, can also result in or increase the likelihood or potential severity of a seismic event. our esterhazy mine has experienced minor seismic events from time to time. a significant seismic event at one of our mines could result in serious injuries or death, or damage to or flooding of the mine or, in the extreme scenario, cause us to change our mining process or abandon the mine. our underground potash shaft mines are subject to risk from fire. in the event of a fire, if our emergency procedures are not successful, we could have significant injuries or deaths. in addition, fire at one of our underground shaft mines could halt our operations at the affected mine while we investigate the origin of the fire or for longer periods for remedial work or otherwise. our underground potash shaft mines at esterhazy and colonsay, saskatchewan and carlsbad, new mexico are subject to risk from fire. any failure of our safety procedures in the future could result in serious injuries or death, or shutdowns, which could result in significant liabilities and/or impact on the financial performance of our potash business, including a possible material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we handle significant quantities of ammonia at several of our facilities. if our safety procedures are not effective, an accident involving our ammonia operations could result in serious injuries or death, or result in the shutdown of our facilities. we produce ammonia at our faustina, louisiana phosphate concentrates plant, use ammonia in significant quantities at all of our florida and louisiana phosphates concentrates plants and store ammonia at some of our distribution facilities. for our florida phosphates concentrates plants, ammonia is received at terminals in tampa and transported by pipelines and rail to our facilities. our ammonia is generally stored and transported at high pressures or cryogenically. an accident could occur that could result in serious injuries or death, or the evacuation of areas near an accident. an accident could also result in property damage or the shutdown of our florida or louisiana phosphates concentrates plants, the ammonia terminals, pipelines or rail lines serving those plants or our other ammonia storage and handling facilities. as a result, an accident involving ammonia could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we also use or produce other hazardous or volatile chemicals at some of our facilities. if our safety procedures are not effective, an accident involving these other hazardous or volatile chemicals could result in serious injuries or death, or result in the shutdown of our facilities. we use sulfuric acid in the production of concentrated phosphates in our florida and louisiana operations. some of our florida and louisiana facilities produce fluorosilicic acid, which is a hazardous chemical, for resale to third parties. we also use or produce other hazardous or volatile chemicals at some of our facilities. an accident involving any of these chemicals could result in serious injuries or death, or evacuation of areas near an accident. an accident could also result in property damage or shutdown of our facilities, or cause us to expend significant amounts to remediate safety issues or to repair damaged facilities. as a result, an accident involving any of these chemicals could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. deliberate, malicious acts, including terrorism, could damage our facilities, disrupt our operations or injure employees, contractors, customers or the public and result in liability to us. intentional acts of destruction could hinder our sales or production and disrupt our supply chain. our facilities could be damaged or destroyed, reducing our operational production capacity and requiring us to repair or replace our facilities at substantial cost. employees, contractors and the public could suffer substantial physical injury for which we could be liable. governmental authorities may impose security or other requirements that could make our operations more difficult or costly. the consequences of any such actions could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by changing antitrust laws to which we are subject. increases in crop nutrient prices can increase the scrutiny to which we are subject under these laws. we are subject to antitrust and competition laws in various countries throughout the world. we cannot predict how these laws or their interpretation, administration and enforcement will change over time. changes in antitrust laws globally, or in their interpretation, administration or enforcement, may limit our existing or future operations and growth, or the operations of 34 table of contents canpotex, which serves as an export association for our potash business. increases in crop nutrient prices have in the past resulted in increased scrutiny of the crop nutrient industry under antitrust and competition laws and can increase the risk that these laws could be interpreted, administered or enforced in a manner that could affect our operating practices or impose liability on us in a manner that could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by other changes in laws resulting from increases in food and crop nutrient prices. increases in prices for, among other things, food, fuel and crop inputs (including crop nutrients) have in the past been the subject of significant discussion by various governmental bodies and officials throughout the world. in response to increases, it is possible that governments in one or more of the locations in which we operate or where we or our competitors sell our products could take actions that could affect us. such actions could include, among other matters, changes in governmental policies relating to agriculture and biofuels (including changes in subsidy levels), price controls, tariffs, windfall profits taxes or export or import taxes. any such actions could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our competitive position could be adversely affected if we are unable to participate in continuing industry consolidation. most of our products are readily available from a number of competitors, and price and other competition in the crop nutrient industry is intense. in addition, crop nutrient production facilities and distribution activities frequently benefit from economies of scale. as a result, particularly during pronounced cyclical troughs, the crop nutrient industry has a long history of consolidation. mosaic itself is the result of a number of industry consolidations. we expect consolidation among crop nutrient producers could continue. our competitive position could suffer to the extent we are not able to expand our own resources either through consolidations, acquisitions, joint ventures or partnerships. in the future, we may not be able to find suitable companies to combine with, assets to purchase or joint venture or partnership opportunities to pursue. even if we are able to locate desirable opportunities, we may not be able to enter into transactions on economically acceptable terms. if we do not successfully participate in continuing industry consolidation, our ability to compete successfully could be adversely affected and result in the loss of customers or an uncompetitive cost structure, which could adversely affect our sales and profitability. our strategy for managing market and interest rate risk may not be effective. our businesses are affected by fluctuations in market prices for our products, the purchase price of natural gas, ammonia and sulfur consumed in operations, freight and shipping costs, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. we periodically enter into derivatives and forward purchase contracts to mitigate some of these risks. however, our strategy may not be successful in minimizing our exposure to these fluctuations. see market risk in our management's analysis and note 14 of our notes to consolidated financial statements that is incorporated by reference in this report in part ii, item 8. a shortage or unavailability of railcars, tugs, barges and ships for carrying our products and the raw materials we use in our business could result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of production or sales and higher transportation or equipment costs. we rely heavily upon truck, rail, tug, barge and ocean freight transportation to obtain the raw materials we need and to deliver our products to our customers. in addition, the cost of transportation is an important part of the final sale price of our products. finding affordable and dependable transportation is important in obtaining our raw materials and to supply our customers. higher costs for these transportation services or an interruption or slowdown due to factors including high demand, high fuel prices, labor disputes, layoffs or other factors affecting the availability of qualified transportation workers, adverse weather or other environmental events, or changes to rail, barge or ocean freight systems, could negatively affect our ability to produce our products or deliver them to our customers, which could affect our performance and results of operations. strong demand for grain and other products and a strong world economy increase the demand for and reduce the availability of transportation, both domestically and internationally. shortages of railcars, barges and ocean transport for carrying product and increased transit time may result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of sales and higher equipment and transportation costs. in addition, during periods when the shipping industry has a shortage of ships the substantial time needed to build new ships prevents rapid market response. delays and missed shipments due to transportation shortages, including vessels, barges, railcars and trucks, could result in customer dissatisfaction or loss of sales potential, which could negatively affect our performance and results of operations. 35 table of contents additionally, we have agreed under our long-term cf ammonia supply agreement to purchase approximately 545,000 to 725,000 tonnes of ammonia per year during a term that may extend until december 31, 2032, at a price to be determined by a formula based on the prevailing price of u.s. natural gas. we are obligated to provide for transportation of the ammonia under the agreement, and if we fail to take the required minimum annual amount, cf may elect to require us to make payment of liquidated damages or terminate the agreement. payment of significant liquidated damages or an election by cf to terminate the agreement could adversely affect our business. a lack of customers' access to credit can adversely affect their ability to purchase our products. some of our customers require access to credit to purchase our products. a lack of available credit to customers in one or more countries, due to global or local economic conditions or for other reasons, could adversely affect demand for crop nutrients. we extend trade credit to our customers and guarantee the financing that some of our customers use to purchase our products. our results of operations may be adversely affected if these customers are unable to repay the trade credit from us or financing from their banks. increases in prices for crop nutrient, other agricultural inputs and grain may increase this risk. we extend trade credit to our customers in the united states and throughout the world, in some cases for extended periods of time. in brazil, where there are fewer third-party financing sources available to farmers, we also have several programs under which we guarantee customers' financing from financial institutions that they use to purchase our products. as our exposure to longer trade credit extended throughout the world and use of guarantees in brazil increases, we are increasingly exposed to the risk that some of our customers will not pay us or the amounts we have guaranteed. additionally, we become increasingly exposed to risk due to weather and crop growing conditions, fluctuations in commodity prices or foreign currencies, and other factors that influence the price, supply and demand for agricultural commodities. significant defaults by our customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. increases in prices for crop nutrients increase the dollar amount of our sales to customers. the larger dollar value of our customers' purchases may also lead them to request longer trade credit from us and/or increase their need for us to guarantee their financing of our products. either factor could increase the amount of our exposure to the risk that our customers may be unable to repay the trade credit from us or financing from their banks that we guarantee. in addition, increases in prices for other agricultural inputs and grain may increase the working capital requirements, indebtedness and other liabilities of our customers, increase the risk that they will default on the trade credit from us or their financing that we guarantee, and decrease the likelihood that we will be able to collect from our customers in the event of their default. provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. our restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. these provisions include the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent and the inability of our stockholders to request that our board of directors or chairman of our board call a special meeting of stockholders. we are also subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. in general, section 203 prohibits a publicly held delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years from the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the interested stockholder attained this status with the approval of the board of directors or unless the business combination was approved in a prescribed manner. a business combination includes mergers, asset sales and other transactions resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder. subject to exceptions, an interested stockholder is a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns, or within three years owned, 15% or more of the corporation's voting stock. this statute could prohibit or delay the accomplishment of mergers or other takeover or change in control attempts with respect to us and, accordingly, may discourage attempts to acquire us. these provisions apply not only when they may protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics but even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in our best interests or those of our stockholders. 36 table of contents our success will continue to depend on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified and motivated employees. we believe our continued success depends on the collective abilities and efforts of our employees. like many businesses, a significant number of our employees, including some of our most highly skilled employees with specialized expertise in potash and phosphates operations, will be approaching retirement age throughout the next decade and beyond. in addition, we compete for a talented workforce with other businesses, particularly within the mining and chemicals industries in general and the crop nutrients industry in particular. our expansion plans are highly dependent on our ability to attract, retain and train highly qualified and motivated employees who are essential to the success of our ongoing operations as well as to our expansion plans. if we were to be unsuccessful in attracting, retaining and training the employees we require, our ongoing operations and expansion plans could be materially and adversely affected. future product or technological innovation could affect our business. future product or technological innovation such as the development of seeds that require less crop nutrients, the development of substitutes for our products or developments in the application of crop nutrients, if they occur, could have the potential to adversely affect the demand for our products and our results of operations, liquidity and capital resources. we may fail to fully realize the anticipated benefits and synergies of our acquisition (the acquisition ) of the global phosphate and potash operations of vale s.a. ( vale ) conducted through vale fertilizantes s.a. (now known as mosaic fertilizantes p&amp;k s.a.). the success of the acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and synergies. our ability to realize these anticipated benefits and synergies is subject to certain risks including: our ability to successfully integrate mosaic fertilizantes and to eliminate duplicative overhead and other costs; whether the combined operations will perform as expected; whether the integration of mosaic fertilizantes takes longer than anticipated or involves higher than projected integration costs; whether the integration process disrupts our on-going operations or diverts the attention of our management from our current operations; whether we have underestimated the liabilities and obligations we are assuming in the acquisition; and political and economic instability in brazil or changes in government regulation or policy in brazil. if we are not able to successfully integrate the acquired business within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the anticipated benefits and synergies of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected, and the combined operations may not perform as expected. the success of our other strategic initiatives depends on our ability to effectively manage these initiatives, and to successfully integrate and grow acquired businesses. in addition to the acquisition, we have other significant ongoing strategic initiatives, including, principally our plans to expand the annual production capacity of our potash business and mwspc. these strategic initiatives involve capital and other expenditures of several billions of dollars over a number of years and require effective project management and, in the case of strategic acquisitions, successful integration. to the extent the processes we (or, for the mwspc, we together with our joint venture partners) put in place to manage these initiatives or integrate and grow acquired businesses are not effective, our capital expenditure and other costs may exceed our expectations or the benefits we expect from these initiatives might not be fully realized. we may fail to fully realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings of our long-term cf ammonia supply agreement. we use ammonia as a raw material in the production of our concentrated phosphate products. under our long-term cf ammonia supply agreement we have agreed to purchase approximately 545,000 to 725,000 tonnes of ammonia per year during a term that may extend until december 31, 2032 at a price to be determined by a formula based on the prevailing price of u.s. natural gas. the success of this agreement will depend, in part, on our ability to realize cost savings from the agreement's natural gas based pricing. if the price of natural gas rises materially or the market price for ammonia falls outside of the range we 37 table of contents currently anticipate over the term of the agreement, we may not realize a cost benefit from the agreement, or the cost of our ammonia under the agreement could be a competitive disadvantage. in addition, our ability to realize benefits and cost savings is subject to certain additional risks including whether cf successfully performs its obligations under the agreement over the life of its commitment and our ability to take delivery of the required minimum annual amount of ammonia over the life of our commitment. cyber attacks could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse impact on our business. as a global company, we utilize and rely upon information technology systems in many aspects of our business, including internal and external communications and the management of our accounting, financial, production and supply chain functions. as we become more dependent on information technologies to conduct our operations, and as the number and sophistication of cyber attacks increase, the risks associated with cyber security increase. these risks apply both to us, and to third parties on whose systems we rely for the conduct of our business. failure to effectively anticipate, prevent, detect and recover from the increasing number and sophistication of cyber attacks could result in theft, loss or misuse of, or damage or modification of our information, and cause disruptions or delays in our business, reputational damage and third-party claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we have included a discussion about market risks under market risk in the management's analysis that is included in this report in part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . this information is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 27 risk factors. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the risks and uncertainties described below. our esterhazy mine has had an inflow of salt saturated brine for more than 30 years. since december 1985, we have had inflows of salt saturated brine into our esterhazy, saskatchewan mine. over the past century, several potash mines experiencing water inflow problems have flooded. in order to control brine inflows at esterhazy, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, expenditures, certain of which, due to their nature, have been capitalized, while others have been charged to expense. at various times, we experience changing amounts and patterns of brine inflows at the esterhazy mine. periodically, some of these inflows have exceeded available pumping capacity. if that were to continue for several months without abatement, it could exceed our available storage capacity and ability to effectively manage the brine inflow. this could adversely affect production at the esterhazy mine. the brine inflow is variable, resulting in both net inflows (the rate of inflow is more than the amount we are pumping out of the mine) and net outflows (when we are pumping more brine out of the mine than the rate of inflow). there can be no assurance that: our pumping, surface storage, underground storage or injection well capacities for brine will continue to be sufficient, or that the pumping, grouting and other measures that we use to manage the inflows at the esterhazy mine will continue to be effective; there will not be a disruption in the supply of calcium chloride, which is a primary material used to reduce or prevent the flow of incoming brine; our estimates of the volumes of net inflows or net outflows of brine, or storage capacity for brine at the esterhazy mine, are accurate; 27 table of contents the volumes of the brine inflows will not fluctuate from time to time, the rate of the brine inflows will not be greater than our prior experience or current assumptions, changes in inflow patterns will not adversely affect our ability to locate and manage the inflows, or that any such fluctuations, increases or changes would not be material; and the expenditures to control the inflows will be consistent with our prior experience or future estimates. from time to time, new or improved technology becomes available to facilitate our remediation of the inflows, such as when horizontal drilling techniques were developed and refined. taking advantage of these new or improved technologies may require significant capital expenditures and/or may increase our costs of remediation. due to the ongoing brine inflow at esterhazy, subject to exceptions that are limited in scope and amount, we are unable to obtain insurance coverage for underground operations for water incursion problems. our mines at colonsay, saskatchewan, and carlsbad, new mexico, are also subject to the risks of inflow of water as a result of our shaft mining operations. it is possible that the costs of remedial efforts at esterhazy may further increase in the future and that such an increase could be material, or, in the extreme scenario, that the brine inflows, risk to employees or remediation costs may increase to a level which would cause us to change our mining processes or abandon the mines. see the key factors that can affect results of operations and financial condition and potash net sales and gross margin sections of our management's analysis, which sections are incorporated herein by reference, for a discussion of costs, risks and other information relating to the brine inflows. our operating results are highly dependent upon and fluctuate based upon business and economic conditions and governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry in which we or our customers operate. these factors are outside of our control and may significantly affect our profitability. our operating results are highly dependent upon business and economic conditions and governmental policies, which we cannot control, affecting the agricultural industry. the agricultural products business can be affected by a number of factors. the most important of these factors are: weather patterns and field conditions (particularly during periods of traditionally high crop nutrients consumption); quantities of crop nutrients imported to and exported from; current and projected grain inventories and prices, which are heavily influenced by u.s. exports and world-wide grain markets; and governmental policies, including farm and biofuel policies, which may directly or indirectly influence the number of acres planted, the level of grain inventories, the mix of crops planted or crop prices or otherwise negatively affect our operating results. international market conditions, which are also outside of our control, may also significantly influence our operating results. the international market for crop nutrients is influenced by such factors as the relative value of the u.s. dollar and its impact upon the cost of importing crop nutrients, foreign agricultural policies, including subsidy policies, the existence of, or changes in, import or foreign currency exchange barriers in certain foreign markets, changes in the hard currency demands of certain countries and other regulatory policies of foreign governments, as well as the laws and policies of the united states affecting foreign trade and investment. our most important products are global commodities, and we face intense global competition from other crop nutrient producers that can affect our prices and volumes. our most important products are concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, including diammonium phosphate, or dap, monoammonium phosphate, or map, microessentials and muriate of potash, or mop. we sell most of our dap, map and mop in the form of global commodities. our sales of these products face intense global competition from other crop nutrient producers. changes in competitors' production or shifts in their marketing focus have in the past significantly affected both the prices at which we sell our products and the volumes that we sell, and are likely to continue to do so in the future. competitors are more likely to increase their production at times when world agricultural and crop nutrient markets are strong, and to focus on sales into regions where their returns are highest. increases in the global supply of dap, map and mop or competitors' increased sales into regions in which we have significant sales could adversely affect our prices and volumes. competitors and potential new entrants in the markets for both concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and potash have in recent years expanded capacity, or begun, or announced plans, to expand capacity or build new facilities. the extent to which 28 table of contents current global or local economic and financial conditions, changes in global or local economic and financial conditions, or other factors may cause delays or cancellation of some of these ongoing or planned projects, or result in the acceleration of existing or new projects, is unclear. in addition, the level of exports by producers of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients in china depends to a significant extent on chinese government actions to curb exports through, among other measures, prohibitive export taxes at times when the government believes it desirable to assure ample domestic supplies of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients to stimulate grain and oilseed production. in addition, the other member of canpotex is among our competitors who are expanding their potash production capacity. each of canpotex member's respective shares of canpotex sales is based upon that member's respective proven peaking capacity for producing potash. when a canpotex member expands its production capacity, the new capacity is added to that member's proven peaking capacity based on a proving run at the maximum production level. alternatively, after january 2017, canpotex members may elect to rely on an independent engineering firm and approved protocols to calculate their proven peaking capacity. antitrust and competition laws prohibit the members of canpotex from coordinating their production decisions, including the timing of their respective proving runs. worldwide potash production levels during these proving runs could exceed then-current market demand, resulting in an oversupply of potash and lower potash prices. we cannot accurately predict when or whether competitors' or new entrants' ongoing or planned capacity expansions or new facilities will be completed, the timing of competitors' tests to prove peaking capacity for canpotex purposes, the cumulative effect of these and recently completed expansions, the impact of future decisions by the chinese government on the level of chinese exports of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, or the effects of these or other actions by our competitors on the prices for our products or the volumes that we will be able to sell. the effects of any of these events occurring could be materially adverse to our results of operations. our crop nutrients and other products are subject to price and demand volatility resulting from periodic imbalances of supply and demand, which may cause our results of operations to fluctuate. historically, the market for crop nutrients has been cyclical, and prices and demand for our products have fluctuated to a significant extent, particularly for phosphates and, to a lesser extent, potash. periods of high demand, increasing profits and high capacity utilization tend to lead to new plant investment and increased production in the industry. this growth increases supply until the market is over-saturated, leading to declining prices and declining capacity utilization until the cycle repeats. as a result, crop nutrient prices and volumes have been, and are expected to continue to be, volatile. this price and volume volatility may cause our results of operations to fluctuate and potentially deteriorate. the price at which we sell our crop nutrient products and our sales volumes could fall in the event of industry oversupply conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in contrast, high prices may lead our customers and farmers to delay purchasing decisions in anticipation of future lower prices, thus impacting our sales volumes. due to reduced market demand, depressed agricultural economic conditions and other factors, we and our predecessors have at various times suspended or reduced production at some of our facilities. the extent to which we utilize available capacity at our facilities will cause fluctuations in our results of operations, as we will incur costs for any temporary or indefinite shutdowns of our facilities and lower sales tend to lead to higher fixed costs as a percentage of sales. variations in crop nutrient application rates may exacerbate the cyclicality of the crop nutrient markets. farmers are able to maximize their economic return by applying optimum amounts of crop nutrients. farmers' decisions about the application rate for each crop nutrient, or to forego application of a crop nutrient, particularly phosphate and potash, vary from year to year depending on a number of factors, including, among others, crop prices, crop nutrient and other crop input costs or the level of the crop nutrient remaining in the soil following the previous harvest. farmers are more likely to increase application rates when crop prices are relatively high, crop nutrient and other crop input costs are relatively low and the level of the crop nutrient remaining in the soil is relatively low. conversely, farmers are likely to reduce or forego application when farm economics are weak or declining or the level of the crop nutrients remaining in the soil is relatively high. this variability in application rates can materially accentuate the cyclicality in prices for our products and our sales volumes. our crop nutrient business is seasonal, which may result in carrying significant amounts of inventory and seasonal variations in working capital, and our inability to predict future seasonal crop nutrient demand accurately may result in excess inventory or product shortages. the crop nutrient business is seasonal. farmers tend to apply crop nutrients during two short application periods, the strongest one in the spring, before planting, and the other in the fall, after harvest. as a result, the strongest demand for our 29 table of contents products typically occurs during the spring planting season, with a second period of strong demand following the fall harvest. in contrast, we and other crop nutrient producers generally produce our products throughout the year. as a result, we and/or our customers generally build inventories during the low demand periods of the year in order to ensure timely product availability during the peak sales seasons. the seasonality of crop nutrient demand results in our sales volumes and net sales typically being the highest during the north american spring season and our working capital requirements typically being the highest just prior to the start of the spring season. our quarterly financial results can vary significantly from one year to the next due to weather-related shifts in planting schedules and purchasing patterns. if seasonal demand exceeds our projections, we will not have enough product and our customers may acquire products from our competitors, which would negatively impact our profitability. if seasonal demand is less than we expect, we will be left with excess inventory and higher working capital and liquidity requirements. the degree of seasonality of our business can change significantly from year to year due to conditions in the agricultural industry and other factors. the distribution channels for crop nutrients have capacity to build significant levels of inventories, which can adversely affect our sales volumes and selling prices. in order to balance the production needs of crop nutrient producers with farmers' seasonal use of crop nutrients, crop nutrient distribution channels need to have the capacity to build significant inventories. the build-up of inventories in the distribution channels can become excessive, particularly during the cyclical periods of low demand that have been typical in the crop nutrient industry. when there are excessive inventories in the distribution channel, our sales volumes and selling prices can be adversely impacted, even during periods in which farmers' use of crop nutrients may remain strong. changes in transportation costs can affect our sales volumes and selling prices. the cost of delivery is a significant factor in the total cost to customers and farmers of crop nutrients. as a result, changes in transportation costs, or in customer expectations about them, can affect our sales volumes and prices. customer expectations about future events can have a significant effect on the demand for our products. these expectations can significantly affect our sales volumes and selling prices. customer expectations about future events have had and are expected to continue to have an effect on the demand and prices for crop nutrients. future events that may be affected by customer expectations include, among others: customer expectations about future crop nutrient prices and availability. customer expectations about selling prices and availability of crop nutrients have had and are expected to continue to have an effect on the demand for crop nutrients. when customers anticipate increasing crop nutrient selling prices, customers tend to accumulate inventories before the anticipated price increases. this can result in a lag in our realization of rising market prices for our products. conversely, customers tend to delay their purchases when they anticipate future selling prices for crop nutrients will stabilize or decrease, adversely affecting our sales volumes and selling prices. customer expectations about availability of crop nutrients can have similar effects on sales volumes and prices. customer expectations about future farmer economics. similarly, customer expectations about future farmer economics have had and are expected to continue to have an effect on the demand for crop nutrients. when customers anticipate improving farmer economics, customers tend to accumulate crop nutrient inventories in anticipation of increasing sales volumes and selling prices. this can result in a lag in our realization of rising market prices for our products. conversely, when customers anticipate declining farmer economics, customers tend to reduce the level of their purchases of crop nutrients, adversely affecting our sales volumes and selling prices. changes in customer expectations about transportation costs. as discussed above, increasing transportation costs effectively increase customers' and farmers' costs for crop nutrients and can reduce the amount we realize for our sales. expectations of decreasing transportation costs can result in customers and farmers anticipating that they may be able to decrease their costs by delaying purchases. as a result, changes in customer expectations about transportation costs can affect our sales volumes and prices. 30 table of contents we conduct our operations primarily through a limited number of key production and distribution facilities. any disruption at any one of these facilities could have a material adverse impact on our business. the risk of material disruption increases when demand for our products results in high operating rates at our facilities. we conduct our operations through a limited number of key production and distribution facilities. these facilities include our phosphate mines and concentrates plants; our potash mines; and the ports and other distribution facilities through which we, canpotex and any joint ventures in which we participate, conduct our respective businesses, as well as other commercial arrangements with unrelated third parties. any disruption of operations at any one of these facilities has the possibility of significantly affecting our production or our ability to distribute our products. operating these facilities at high rates during periods of high demand for our products increases the risk of mechanical or structural failures, decreases the time available for routine maintenance and increases the impact on our operating results from any disruption. a disruption of operations at any one of our key facilities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. examples of the types of events that could result in a disruption at one of these facilities include: adverse weather; strikes or other work stoppages; deliberate, malicious acts, including acts of terrorism; political and economic instability; cyber attacks; risks associated with our international operations; changes in permitting, financial assurance or other environmental, health and safety laws or other changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate; legal and regulatory proceedings; our relationships with the other member of canpotex and any joint ventures in which we participate and their or our exit from participation in canpotex or any such joint ventures; other changes in our commercial arrangements with unrelated third parties; brine inflows at our esterhazy, saskatchewan, mine or our other shaft mines; mechanical failure and accidents or other failures occurring in the course of operating activities, including at our gypstacks, clay settling areas and tailing dams; and other factors. insurance market conditions, our loss experience and other factors affect the insurance coverage that we carry, and we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. as a result, our insurance coverage may not adequately cover our losses. we maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance policies, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. we are subject to various self-retentions and deductibles under these insurance policies. as a result of market conditions, our loss experience and other factors, our premiums, self-retentions and deductibles for insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. in addition, significantly increased costs could lead us to decide to reduce, or possibly eliminate, coverage. as a result, a disruption of operations at one of our key facilities or a significant casualty could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. important raw materials and energy used in our businesses in the past have been and may in the future be the subject of volatile pricing. changes in the price of our raw materials could have a material impact on our businesses. natural gas, ammonia and sulfur are key raw materials used in the manufacture of phosphate crop nutrient products. natural gas is used as both a chemical feedstock and a fuel to produce anhydrous ammonia, which is a raw material used in the production of concentrated phosphate products. natural gas is also a significant energy source used in the potash solution mining process. from time to time, our profitability has been and may in the future be impacted by the price and availability of these raw materials and other energy costs. because most of our products are commodities, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass through increased costs to our customers. a significant increase in the price of natural gas, ammonia, sulfur or energy costs that is not recovered through an increase in the price of our related crop nutrients products could have a material adverse impact on our business. in addition, under our long-term cf ammonia supply agreement we have agreed to purchase approximately 545,000 to 725,000 tonnes of ammonia per year during a term that may extend until december 31, 2032, and at a price to be determined by a formula based on the prevailing price of u.s. natural gas. if the price of natural gas rises or the market price for ammonia falls outside of the range anticipated at execution of this agreement, we may not realize a cost benefit from the natural gas-based pricing over the term of the agreement, or the cost of our ammonia under the agreement could become a competitive disadvantage. during periods when the price for concentrated phosphates is falling because of falling raw material prices, we may experience a lag in realizing the benefits of the falling raw materials prices. this lag can adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. during some periods, changes in market prices for raw materials can lead to changes in the global market prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients. in particular, the global market prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients can be affected by changes in the market prices for sulfur, ammonia, phosphate rock and/or phosphoric acid raw materials. 31 table of contents increasing market prices for these raw materials tend to put upward pressure on the selling prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, and decreasing market prices for these raw materials tend to put downward pressure on selling prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients. when the market prices for these raw materials plunge rapidly, the selling prices for our concentrated phosphate crop nutrients can fall more rapidly than we are able to consume our raw material inventory that we purchased or committed to purchase in the past at higher prices. as a result, our costs may not fall as rapidly as the selling prices of our products. until we are able to consume the higher-priced raw materials, our gross margins and profitability can be adversely affected. during periods when the prices for our products are falling because of falling raw material prices, we could be required to write-down the value of our inventories. any such write-down would adversely affect our results of operations and the level of our assets. we carry our inventories at the lower of cost or market. in periods when the market prices for our products are falling rapidly, including in response to falling market prices for raw materials, it is possible that we could be required to write-down the value of our inventories if market prices fall below our costs. any such write-down would adversely affect our results of operations and the value of our assets. any such effect could be material. our estimates of future selling prices reflect in part the purchase commitments we have from our customers. as a result, defaults on these existing purchase commitments because of the global or local economic and financial conditions or for other reasons could adversely affect our estimates of future selling prices and require additional inventory write-downs. in the event of a disruption to existing terminaling facilities or transportation for our products or raw materials, alternative terminaling facilities or transportation might not be available on a timely basis or have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our customers or facilities. in the event of a disruption of existing terminaling facilities or transportation for our products or raw materials, alternative terminaling facilities or transportation might not be available on a timely basis or have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our customers or facilities. terminaling facilities and transportation include the ports and other distribution facilities through which we, canpotex and the joint ventures in which we participate, conduct our respective businesses; transportation and related equipment arrangements; and other commercial arrangements with unrelated third parties. examples of the types of events that could result in a disruption of terminaling facilities or transportation include: adverse weather; strikes or other work stoppages; deliberate, malicious acts, including cyber attacks; political and economic instability and other risks associated with our international operations; changes in permitting, financial assurance or other environmental, health and safety laws or other changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate; legal and regulatory proceedings; our relationships with the other member of canpotex and any joint ventures in which we participate and their or our exit from participation in canpotex or any such joint ventures; other changes in our commercial arrangements with unrelated third parties; accidents occurring in the course of operating activities; lack of truck, rail, barge or ship transportation; and other factors. we discuss a number of these examples in more detail throughout this risk factors section. such disruption could adversely impact our business and financial results of operations. we are subject to risks associated with our international sales and operations, which could negatively affect our sales to customers in foreign countries as well as our operations and assets in foreign countries. some of these factors may also make it less attractive to distribute cash generated by our operations outside the united states to our stockholders, or to utilize cash generated by our operations in one country to fund our operations or repayments of indebtedness in another country or to support other corporate purposes. for 2018 , we derived approximately 69% of our net sales from customers located outside of the united states. as a result, we are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: difficulties and costs associated with complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory environments; increased government ownership and regulation of the economy in the countries we serve; political and economic instability, including the possibility for civil unrest, inflation and adverse economic conditions resulting from governmental attempts to reduce inflation, such as imposition of higher interest rates and wage and price controls; unpredictable tax audit practices of various governments; 32 table of contents nationalization of properties by foreign governments; the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls, trade barriers or other restrictions, or government-imposed increases in the cost of resources and materials necessary for the conduct of our operations or the completion of strategic initiatives, including with respect to our joint ventures; and currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies, particularly the brazilian real and the canadian dollar. the occurrence of any of the above in the countries in which we operate or elsewhere could jeopardize or limit our ability to transact business there and could adversely affect our revenues and operating results and the value of our assets located outside of the united states. in addition, tax regulations and tax audit practices, currency exchange controls and other restrictions may also make it economically unattractive to: distribute cash generated by our operations outside the united states to our stockholders; or utilize cash generated by our operations in one country to fund our operations or repayments of indebtedness in another country or to support other corporate purposes. changes in tax laws or regulations or their interpretation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities, could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we are subject to taxes, including income taxes, resource taxes and royalties, and non-income based taxes in the u.s., canada, china, brazil and other countries where we operate. changes in tax laws or regulations or their interpretation could result in higher taxes, which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in 2018, u.s. federal tax law changes took effect. this was a significant change to the u.s. tax system of taxation resulting in numerous areas open to interpretation given the newness and breadth of changes to the rules. as a result, risk exists related to developing interpretation and application of the new rules that could result in higher taxes which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we are subject to periodic audits by various levels of tax authorities in all countries where we have meaningful operations. the due process, audit and appeal practices and procedures of such authorities may vary significantly by jurisdiction, may be unpredictable (and unreliable) in nature and may result in significant risk to us. for various reason, some governments may issue significant reassessments on audit based positions not fully grounded in law or in fact, even though, upon disputing the reassessments, a great many are overturned on administrative appeal and through the court system. certain systems involve tax litigation as a common practice. in certain countries, there are requirements to pay a reassessment (even though the matter has not been finally decided by the tax administration or a court of law) while the taxpayer has a well-supported objection and appeals administratively or in court. this may result in tying up significant funds and/or creating adverse treasury and credit risks that may interrupt, impede or otherwise materially affect our business operations. our assets outside of north america are located in countries with volatile conditions, which could subject us and our assets to significant risks. we are a global business with substantial assets located outside of the united states and canada. our operations in brazil, china, india and paraguay are a fundamental part of our business. we have a majority interest in the joint venture entity operating the miski mayo mine in peru that supplies phosphate rock to us. we also have a joint venture investment in mwspc, which operates a mine and chemical complexes that produce phosphate fertilizers and other downstream products in the kingdom of saudi arabia. volatile economic, political and market conditions in these and other emerging market countries may have a negative impact on our operations, operating results and financial condition. in addition, unfavorable changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, or governmental actions and policies and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and the pricing and sourcing of our raw materials, may also have a negative impact on our operations, operating results and financial condition. natural resource extraction is an important part of the economy in peru, and, in the past, there have been protests against other natural resource operations in peru. there remain numerous social conflicts that exist within the natural resource sector in peru. as a result, there is potential for active protests against natural resource companies. if the government of peru's proactive efforts to address the social and environmental issues surrounding natural resource activities are not successful, protests could extend to or impact the miski mayo mine and adversely affect our interest in the miski mayo joint venture or the supply of phosphate rock to us from the mine. 33 table of contents adverse weather conditions, including the impact of hurricanes, and excess heat, cold, snow, rainfall and drought, have in the past, and may in the future, adversely affect our operations, particularly our phosphates business, and result in increased costs, decreased production and potential liabilities. adverse weather conditions, including the impact of hurricanes and excess heat, cold, snow, rainfall and drought, have in the past and may in the future adversely affect our operations, particularly our phosphates business. in the past, hurricanes have resulted in minor physical damage to our facilities in florida and louisiana. in addition, a release of process wastewater at our riverview, florida facility during a 2004 hurricane resulted in a small civil fine, settlement for an immaterial amount of claims for natural resource damages by governmental agencies and an ongoing private lawsuit. additionally, water treatment costs, particularly at our florida operations, due to high water balances, tend to increase significantly following excess rainfall from hurricanes or other adverse weather. some of our florida facilities have had or could have high water levels that may require treatment. high water balances in the past at phosphate facilities in florida also led the florida department of environmental protection ( fdep ) to adopt new rules requiring phosphate production facilities to meet more stringent process water management objectives for phosphogypsum management systems. if additional excess rainfall or hurricanes occur in coming years, our facilities may be required to take additional measures to manage process water to comply with existing or future requirements and these measures could potentially have a material effect on our business and financial condition. adverse weather may also cause a loss of production due to disruptions in our supply chain or adversely affect delivery of our products to our customers. for example, oil refineries that supply sulfur to us may suspend operations as a result of a hurricane, and incoming shipments of ammonia can be delayed, disrupting production at our florida or louisiana facilities and delivery of our products. drought can also adversely affect us. for example, drought can reduce farmers' crop yields and the uptake of phosphates and potash, reducing the need for application of additional phosphates and potash for the next planting season. drought can also lower river levels, adversely affecting delivery of our products to our customers. our operations are dependent on having the required permits and approvals from governmental authorities. denial or delay by a government agency in issuing any of our permits and approvals or imposition of restrictive conditions on us with respect to these permits and approvals may impair our business and operations. we hold numerous governmental environmental, mining and other permits and approvals authorizing operations at each of our facilities. our ability to continue operations at a facility could be materially affected by a government agency decision to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed permit or approval, to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval or to substantially change conditions applicable to a permit modification, or by legal actions that successfully challenge our permits. expanding our operations or extending operations into new areas is also predicated upon securing the necessary environmental or other permits or approvals. we have been engaged in, and over the next several years, we and our subsidiaries will be continuing our, efforts to obtain permits in support of our anticipated florida mining operations at certain of our properties. a denial of our permits, the issuance of permits with cost-prohibitive conditions, substantial delays in issuing key permits, or legal actions that prevent us from relying on permits or revocation of permits, could prevent us from mining at certain of our properties and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for example: in florida, local community involvement has become an increasingly important factor in the permitting process for mining companies, and various counties and other parties in florida have in the past filed and continue to file lawsuits challenging the issuance of some of the permits we require. these actions can significantly delay issuance of the permits we need to initiate mining. delays in receiving a federal permit authorizing impacts to jurisdictional wetlands and waters can impact the scheduled progression of mining activities. for example, due to delays in obtaining the federal cwa section 404 permit for the new 24,000 acre ona mine in hardee county, florida, the mining plan and schedule were modified to limit mining to a 900-acre upland area where no jurisdictional wetlands or waters existed. since we had already obtained the required state and county approvals for the ona mine, mining would start in the upland-only area because no federal 404 permit would be required. implementing the upland mining option was caused by the federal 34 table of contents permitting delay but was necessary to maintain an adequate supply of phosphate rock. the initial site preparation work commenced in late 2018 and was confined to the ona mine upland area. continuing to limit mining to the upland-only area of the ona mine would have severely reduced the amount of phosphate rock extracted from the property, increased site preparation costs, resulted in much lower production grade, and increased reclamation costs. issuance of the federal 404 permit for the entire ona mine in late december 2018 avoided the need to continue with the upland-only backup plan. we have included additional discussion about permitting for our phosphate mines in florida under environmental, health, safety and security matters operating requirements and impacts permitting in our management's analysis. we are subject to financial assurance requirements as part of our routine business operations. these financial assurance requirements affect our costs and increase our liquidity requirements. if we were unable to satisfy applicable financial assurance requirements, we might not be able to obtain or maintain permits we need to operate our business as we have in the past. our need to comply with these requirements could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. in many cases, as a condition to procuring or maintaining permits and approvals or otherwise, we are required to comply with financial assurance requirements of governmental authorities. the purpose of these requirements is to provide comfort to the government that sufficient funds will be available for the ultimate closure, post-closure care or reclamation of our facilities. in some cases, we are able to comply through the satisfaction of applicable state financial strength tests. but, if we are unable to do so, we must utilize alternative methods of complying with the financial assurance requirements or we would be prevented from continuing our mining operations and also could be subject to enforcement proceedings brought by relevant government agencies. potential alternative methods of compliance include providing credit support in the form of cash escrows or trusts, surety bonds from surety or insurance companies, letters of credit from banks, or other forms of financial instruments or collateral to satisfy the financial assurance requirements or negotiating a consent agreement that establishes a different form of financial assurance. use of alternative means of financial assurance imposes additional expense on us. some of them, such as letters of credit, also use a portion of our available liquidity. other alternative means of financial assurance, such as surety bonds, may in some cases require collateral and generally require us to obtain a discharge of the bonds or to post additional collateral (typically in the form of cash or letters of credit) at the request of the issuer of the bonds. collateral that is required may be in many forms including letters of credit or other financial instruments that utilize a portion of our available liquidity, or in the form of assets such as real estate, which reduces our flexibility to manage or sell assets. for example: with respect to two facilities we acquired as part of our acquisition of the florida phosphate assets and assumption of certain related liabilities of cf (the cf phosphate assets acquisition ), (i) we currently use a financial test supported by a corporate guarantee to meet florida state regulations governing financial assurance related to the post-closure care of the phosphogypsum stack at our closed bonnie facility in florida, and (ii) under the terms of a consent decree with federal and state regulators we currently provide credit support in the form of a surety bond from insurance companies, as a means of financial assurance for closure and post-closure care requirements for the phosphogypsum stack at our plant city, florida facility. these financial assurance funding obligations require estimates of future expenditures that could be impacted by refinements in scope, technological developments, cost inflation, changes in regulations, discount rates and the timing of activities. additional financial assurance commitments could be required in the future if increases in cost estimates exceed the assurance amount currently in place. in addition, with respect to the plant city facility, our use of a surety bond may in some cases require that we obtain a discharge of the bond or post collateral at the request of the issuers of the bond. required collateral may be in many forms including letters of credit or other financial instruments that utilize a portion of our available liquidity. any of these circumstances could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. as more fully discussed in note 14 of our notes to consolidated financial statements, in 2016 under the terms of two consent decrees with federal and state regulators, we deposited a total of $630 million into two trust funds to provide additional financial assurance for the estimated costs of closure and post-closure care of most of our other phosphogypsum management systems in florida (excluding those acquired as part of the cf phosphate assets acquisition) and louisiana. as required under one of the consent decrees, we have also issued a $50 million letter of credit to further support our financial assurance obligations. we have also agreed to guarantee the difference between the amounts held in each trust fund (including earnings) and the estimated closure and long-term care costs. compliance with the financial assurance requirements included in these consent decrees satisfies substantially all of 35 table of contents our state financial assurance obligations relating to the covered facilities, which were historically satisfied without the need for any expenditure of corporate funds, to the extent our financial statements met certain balance sheet and income statement financial strength tests. in the past, we have also not always been able to satisfy applicable financial strength tests, and, in the future, it is possible that we will not be able to pass the applicable financial strength tests, negotiate or receive approval of consent decrees, establish escrow or trust accounts or obtain letters of credit, surety bonds or other financial instruments on acceptable terms and conditions or at a reasonable cost, or that the form and/or cost of compliance could increase, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. we have included additional discussion about financial assurance requirements under off balance sheet arrangements and obligations other commercial commitments in our management's analysis. the other environmental, health and safety regulations to which we are subject may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition to permitting and financial assurance requirements, we are subject to numerous other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the u.s., canada, china, brazil and other countries where we operate. these laws and regulations govern a wide range of matters, including environmental controls, land reclamation, discharges to air and water and remediation of hazardous substance releases. they significantly affect our operating activities as well as the level of our operating costs and capital expenditures. in some international jurisdictions, environmental laws change frequently and it may be difficult for us to determine if we are in compliance with all material environmental laws at any given time. if we are not in compliance, or the changes require new investment in our business, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. we are, and may in the future be, involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that could be material to us. these proceedings include legacy matters arising from activities of our predecessor companies and from facilities and businesses that we have never owned or operated. we have in the past been, are currently and in the future, may be subject to legal and regulatory proceedings that could be material to our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. joint ventures in which we participate could also become subject to these sorts of proceedings. these proceedings may be brought by the government or private parties and may arise out of a variety of matters, including: allegations by the government or private parties that we have violated the permitting, financial assurance or other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations discussed above. for example, in connection with our settlement of matters relating to the u.s. environmental protection agency's ongoing review of mineral processing industries under the u.s. resource conservation and recovery act, we entered into the consent decrees discussed above and in note 14 of our notes to consolidated financial statements, which required us to provide additional financial assurance as described above, pay cash penalties of approximately $8 million in the aggregate, modify certain operating practices and undertake certain capital improvement projects over a period of several years that are expected to result in capital expenditures likely to exceed $200 million in the aggregate. we are also involved in other proceedings alleging that, or to review whether, we have violated environmental laws in the united states and brazil. other environmental, health and safety matters, including alleged personal injury, wrongful death, complaints that our operations are adversely impacting nearby farms and other business operations, other property damage, subsidence from mining operations, spills or releases to the environment, natural resource damages and other damage to the environment, arising out of operations, including accidents, could result in material impacts to our operations and facilities. for example, several actions were initiated by the government and private parties related to a release of process wastewater at our riverview, florida facility in connection with a 2004 hurricane. in addition, a putative class action lawsuit was filed following the water loss incident that occurred at our new wales, florida facility in 2016. in connection with that incident, we also entered into an administrative consent order with the fdep, as discussed in greater detail in note 22 of our notes to consolidated financial statements. antitrust, commercial, tax (including tax audits) and other disputes. for example, we were one of a number of defendants in multiple class-action lawsuits, in which the plaintiffs sought unspecified amounts of damages including treble damages, alleging that we and other defendants conspired to, among other matters, fix the price at which potash was sold in the united states, allocated market shares and customers and fraudulently concealed their 36 table of contents anticompetitive conduct. in january 2013, we settled these class action antitrust lawsuits for an aggregate of $43.8 million. the legal and regulatory proceedings to which we are currently or may in the future be subject can, depending on the circumstances, result in monetary damage awards, fines, penalties, other liabilities, injunctions or other court or administrative rulings that interrupt, impede or otherwise materially affect our business operations, and/or criminal sanctions. among other environmental laws, the u.s. comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act ( cercla ) imposes liability, including for cleanup costs, without regard to fault or to the legality of a party's conduct, on certain categories of persons, including current and former owners and operators of a site and parties who are considered to have contributed to the release of hazardous substances into the environment. under cercla, or various u.s. state analogues, a party may, under certain circumstances, be required to bear more than its proportional share of cleanup costs at a site where it has liability if payments cannot be obtained from other responsible parties. as a crop nutrient company producing and managing chemicals, we periodically may incur liabilities and cleanup costs, under cercla and other environmental laws, with regard to our current or former facilities, adjacent or nearby third-party facilities or offsite disposal locations. pending and potential legal and regulatory proceedings may arise out of our present activities, including operations at current facilities. they may also arise out of past activities by us, our predecessor companies and subsidiaries that our predecessors have sold. these past activities were in some cases at facilities that we and our subsidiaries no longer own or operate and may have never owned or operated. settlements of legal and regulatory matters frequently require court approval. in the event a court were not to approve of a settlement, it is possible that we and the other party or parties to the matter might not be able to settle it on terms that were acceptable to all parties or that we could be required to accept more stringent terms of settlement than required by the opposing parties. we have included additional information with respect to pending legal and regulatory proceedings in note 22 of our notes to consolidated financial statements and in this report in part i, item 3, legal proceedings . these legal and regulatory proceedings involve inherent uncertainties and could negatively impact our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. the permitting, financial assurance and other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations to which we are subject may become more stringent over time. this could increase the effects on us of these laws and regulations, and the increased effects could be material. continued government and public emphasis on environmental, health and safety issues in the u.s., canada, china, brazil, paraguay and other countries where we operate can be expected to result in requirements that apply to us and our operations that are more stringent than those that are described above and elsewhere in this report. these more stringent requirements may include, among other matters; increased levels of future investments and expenditures for environmental controls at ongoing operations, which will be charged against income from future operations; increased levels of the financial assurance requirements to which we are subject, increased efforts or costs to obtain permits or denial of permits. other new or interpretations of existing statutes or regulations that impose new or more stringent restrictions or liabilities, including liabilities or additional financial assurance requirements under cercla or similar statutes, restrictions or liabilities related to elevated levels of naturally-occurring radiation that arise from disturbing the ground in the course of mining activities; and other matters that could increase our expenses, capital requirements or liabilities or adversely affect our business, liquidity or financial condition. in addition, to the extent restrictions imposed in countries where our competitors operate, such as china, india, former soviet union countries or morocco, are less stringent than in the countries where we operate, our competitors could gain cost or other competitive advantages over us. these effects could be material. among other matters, in recent years there have been a number of initiatives relating to nutrient discharges. new regulatory restrictions developed through these initiatives could have a material effect on either us or our customers. for example, the gulf coast ecosystem restoration task force, established by executive order of the president and comprised of five gulf states and eleven federal agencies, delivered a final strategy for long-term ecosystem restoration for the gulf coast in 2016. the strategy calls for, among other matters, reduction of the flow of excess nutrients into the gulf through state nutrient reduction frameworks, new nutrient reduction approaches and reduction of agricultural and urban sources of excess nutrients. 37 table of contents implementation of the strategy will require legislative or regulatory action at the state level. we cannot predict what the requirements of any such legislative or regulatory action could be or whether or how it would affect us or our customers. in june 2015, the epa and the corps jointly issued a final rule that proposed to clarify but may actually expand the scope of waters regulated under the federal clean water act. the final rule (the 2015 clean water rule ) became effective in august 2015, but has been challenged through numerous lawsuits. in october 2015, the u.s. court of appeals for the sixth circuit issued an order staying the effectiveness of the final rule nationwide pending adjudication of substantive challenges to the rule. in june 2017, epa and the corps issued a proposed rule that would rescind the clean water rule and re-codify regulatory text that existed prior to enactment of the 2015 clean water rule. in january 2018, the u.s. supreme court unanimously held all challenges to the 2015 clean water rule must be heard in federal district courts rather than in the federal courts of appeal, overruling a decision by the sixth circuit court of appeals. with the sixth circuit court of appeals no longer having jurisdiction, that court lifted its 2015 nationwide stay in february 2018. after the nationwide stay was lifted, a number of u.s. district courts revived dormant litigation that challenged the 2015 clean water rule. in june 2018, the u.s. district court for the southern district of georgia entered an injunction against implementation of the 2015 clean water rule covering 11 states, including florida. as of september 18, 2018, federal district courts have put the 2015 clean water rule on hold in 28 states. the 2015 clean water rule is now in effect in 22 states, the district of columbia, and the u.s. territories. on december 11, 2018, the epa and corps issued a proposed new clean water rule that is designed to replace the 2015 clean water rule. the agencies' proposed rule is intended to provide clarity, predictability and consistency so that the regulated community can better understand where the clean water act applies - and where it does not. we believe the 2015 clean water rule, if not rescinded, or replaced by the proposed rule issued on december 11, 2018, may expand the types and extent of water resources regulated under federal law, therefore potentially expanding our permitting and reporting requirements, increasing our costs of compliance, including costs associated with wetlands and stream mitigation, lengthening the time necessary to obtain permits, and potentially restricting our ability to mine certain of our phosphate rock reserves. these effects could be material. regulatory restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions and climate change regulations in the united states, canada or elsewhere could adversely affect us, and these effects could be material. various governmental initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions are under way or under consideration around the world. these initiatives could restrict our operating activities, require us to make changes in our operating activities that would increase our operating costs, reduce our efficiency or limit our output, require us to make capital improvements to our facilities, increase our energy, raw material and transportation costs or limit their availability, or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, and these effects could be material to us. governmental greenhouse gas emission initiatives include, among others , the december 2015 agreement (the paris agreement ) which was the outcome of the 21 st session of the conference of the parties under the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc). the paris agreement, which was signed by nearly 200 nations, including the united states and canada, entered into force in late 2016 and sets out a goal of limiting the average rise in temperatures for this century to below 2 degrees celsius. each signatory is expected to develop its own plan (referred to as a nationally determined contribution, or ndc ) for reaching that goal. in may 2017, the united states president announced that the united states would withdraw from the paris agreement. under article 28 of that agreement, the earliest such a withdrawal could be effective is november 2020. in 2015, prior to this announcement, the united states had submitted an ndc aiming to achieve, by 2025, an economy-wide target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 26-28% below its 2005 level. the ndc also aims to use best efforts to reduce emissions by 28%. the u.s. target covers all greenhouse gases that were a part of the 2014 inventory of greenhouse gas emissions and sinks. while it is unclear whether the u.s. executive administration will proceed to withdraw from the paris agreement, various legislative or regulatory initiatives relating to greenhouse gases have been adopted or considered by the u.s. congress, the epa or various states and those initiatives already adopted may be used to implement the u.s.'s ndc. additionally, more stringent laws and regulations may be enacted to accomplish the goals set out in the ndc. canada's intended ndc aims to achieve, by 2030, an economy-wide target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 30% below 2005 levels. in late 2016, the federal government announced plans for a comprehensive tax on carbon emissions, under which provinces opting out of the tax would have the option of adopting a cap-and-trade system. in the plans, the federal government also committed to implementing a federal carbon pricing backstop system that will apply in any province or territory that does not have a carbon pricing system in place by 2018. as of january 1, 2019, a carbon tax of $20/tonne 38 table of contents now applies in canada for any emitter not covered under the federal backstop program or approved provincial program. in addition, the province of saskatchewan, in which our canadian potash mines are located, has publicly stated that a carbon pricing system will not be implemented in the province and that legal action will be sought against the federal government. in december 2017, saskatchewan announced a comprehensive plan to address climate change that does not include an economy-wide price on carbon but does include a system of tariffs and credits for large emitters. the plan was reviewed and approved, in part, by the federal government in october 2018. our saskatchewan potash facilities will be subject to the saskatchewan climate change plan regarding emissions at our facilities; however, indirect costs from the carbon tax associated with electricity, natural gas consumption, and transportation may be passed through to mosaic. as implementation of the paris agreement proceeds, more stringent laws and regulations may be enacted to accomplish the goals set out in canada's ndc, such as the clean fuel standard, which is now under development in ottawa. we will also continue to monitor developments relating to the legislation, as well as the potential future effect on our operating activities, energy, raw material and transportation costs, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources. it is possible that future legislation or regulation addressing climate change, including in response to the paris agreement or any new international agreements, could adversely affect our operating activities, energy, raw material and transportation costs, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, and these effects could be material or adversely impact our competitive advantage. in addition, to the extent climate change restrictions imposed in countries where our competitors operate, such as china, india, former soviet union countries or morocco, are less stringent than in the united states or canada, our competitors could gain cost or other competitive advantages over us. future climate change could adversely affect us. the prospective impact of climate change on our operations and those of our customers and farmers remains uncertain. scientists have hypothesized that the impacts of climate change could include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperature levels and that these changes could be severe. these impacts could vary by geographic location. severe climate change could impact our costs and operating activities, the location and cost of global grain and oilseed production, and the supply and demand for grains and oilseeds. at the present time, we cannot predict the prospective impact of climate change on our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, or whether any such effects could be material to us. some of our competitors and potential competitors have greater resources than we do, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage and adversely affect our sales and profitability. these competitors include state-owned and government-subsidized entities in other countries. we compete with a number of producers throughout the world, including state-owned and government-subsidized entities. some of these entities may have greater total resources than we do, and may be less dependent on earnings from crop nutrients sales than we are. in addition, some of these entities may have access to lower cost or government-subsidized natural gas supplies, placing us at a competitive disadvantage. furthermore, certain governments as owners of some of our competitors may be willing to accept lower prices and profitability on their products in order to support domestic employment or other political or social goals. to the extent other producers of crop nutrients enjoy competitive advantages or are willing to accept lower profit levels, the price of our products, our sales volumes and our profits may be adversely affected. we do not own a controlling equity interest in our non-consolidated companies, some of which are foreign companies, and therefore our operating results and cash flow may be materially affected by how the governing boards and majority owners operate such businesses. there may also be limitations on monetary distributions from these companies that are outside of our control. together, these factors may lower our equity earnings or cash flow from such businesses and negatively impact our results of operations. in 2013, we entered into an agreement to form mwspc, a joint venture to develop a mine and chemical complexes for an estimated $8.0 billion that produces phosphate fertilizers and other downstream products in the kingdom of saudi arabia. we have a 25% interest in the joint venture and expect our cash investment could be up to $840 million , approximately $770 million of which had been funded as of december 31, 2018. the success of mwspc will depend on, among other matters, the completion of development and full commencement of operations of production facilities in the kingdom of saudi arabia, the future success of current plans for completion of the development and for the operation of mwspc, including the availability and affordability of necessary resources and materials and access to appropriate infrastructure, and any future changes in those plans, as well as the general economic and political stability of the region. 39 table of contents we also hold minority ownership interests in companies that are not controlled by us. we expect that the operations and results of mwspc will be, and the operations or results of some of the other companies are, significant to us, and their operations can affect our earnings. because we do not control these companies either at the board or stockholder levels and because local laws in foreign jurisdictions and contractual obligations may place restrictions on monetary distributions by these companies, we cannot ensure that these companies will operate efficiently (or, in the case of mwspc, in compliance with the terms of any funding facility for which we may provide financial guarantees), pay dividends, or generally follow the desires of our management by virtue of our board or stockholder representation. as a result, these companies may contribute less than anticipated to our earnings and cash flow, negatively impacting our results of operations and liquidity. additionally, in the case of mwspc, we may be called upon to provide funds to satisfy mwspc's debt obligations to the extent we provide financial guarantees in connection with its funding facilities. strikes or other forms of work stoppage or slowdown could disrupt our business and lead to increased costs. our financial performance is dependent on a reliable and productive work force. a significant portion of our workforce, and that of the joint ventures in which we participate, is covered by collective bargaining agreements with unions. unsuccessful contract negotiations or adverse labor relations could result in strikes or slowdowns. any disruptions may decrease our production and sales or impose additional costs to resolve disputes. the risk of adverse labor relations may increase as our profitability increases because labor unions' expectations and demands generally rise at those times. accidents occurring in the course of our operating activities could result in significant liabilities, interruptions or shutdowns of facilities or the need for significant safety or other expenditures. we engage in mining and industrial activities that can result in serious accidents. if our safety procedures are not effective, or if an accident occurs, we could be subject to liabilities arising out of personal injuries or death, our operations could be interrupted and we might have to shut down or abandon affected facilities. accidents could cause us to expend significant amounts to remediate safety issues or to repair damaged facilities. for example: some of our facilities are subject to potential damage from earthquakes. the excavation of mines can result in potential seismic events or can increase the likelihood or potential severity of a seismic event. the rise and fall of water levels, such as those arising from the brine inflows and our remediation activities at our esterhazy mine, can also result in or increase the likelihood or potential severity of a seismic event. our esterhazy mine has experienced minor seismic events from time to time and southern louisiana has had at least one such experience recently. a significant seismic event at one of our facilities or mines could result in serious injuries or death, or damage to or flooding operations, or damage to adjoining properties or facilities of unrelated third parties. in an extreme scenario, seismic activity could cause us to disrupt our operations, or change our mining process or abandon the mine. our underground potash shaft mines are subject to risk from fire. in the event of a fire, if our emergency procedures are not successful, we could have significant injuries or deaths. in addition, fire at one of our underground shaft mines could halt our operations at the affected mine while we investigate the origin of the fire or for longer periods for remedial work or otherwise. our underground potash shaft mines at esterhazy and colonsay, saskatchewan, carlsbad, new mexico and taquari-vassouras, brazil are subject to risk from fire. any failure of our safety procedures in the future could result in serious injuries or death, or shutdowns, which could result in significant liabilities and/or impact on the financial performance of our potash business, including a possible material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we handle significant quantities of ammonia at several of our facilities. if our safety procedures are not effective, an accident involving our ammonia operations could result in serious injuries or death, or result in the shutdown of our facilities. we produce ammonia at our faustina, louisiana phosphate concentrates plant, use ammonia in significant quantities at all of our florida and louisiana phosphates concentrates plants and store ammonia at some of our distribution facilities. for our florida phosphates concentrates plants, ammonia is received at terminals in tampa and transported by pipelines to our facilities. we also use ammonia in our brazil phosphate operations. our ammonia is generally stored and transported at high pressures or cryogenically. an accident could occur that could result in serious injuries or death, or the evacuation of areas near an accident. an accident could also result in property damage or the 40 table of contents shutdown of our phosphates concentrates plants, the ammonia terminals, or pipelines serving those plants or our other ammonia storage and handling facilities. as a result, an accident involving ammonia could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we also use or produce other hazardous or volatile chemicals at some of our facilities. if our safety procedures are not effective, an accident involving these other hazardous or volatile chemicals could result in serious injuries or death, or result in the shutdown of our facilities. we use sulfuric acid in the production of concentrated phosphates in our florida and louisiana u.s. operations and our brazil operations. some of our florida facilities produce fluorosilicic acid, which is a hazardous chemical, for resale to third parties. we also use or produce other hazardous or volatile chemicals at some of our facilities. an accident involving any of these chemicals could result in serious injuries or death, or evacuation of areas near an accident. an accident could also result in property damage or shutdown of our facilities, or cause us to expend significant amounts to remediate safety issues or to repair damaged facilities. as a result, an accident involving any of these chemicals could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we use tailings, sediments and water dams to manage residual materials generated by our brazilian mining operations. if our safety procedures are not effective, an accident involving these impoundments could result in serious injuries or death, damage to property or the environment, or result in the shutdown of our facilities, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations in brazil. mining and processing of potash and phosphate generate residual materials that must be managed both during the operation of the facility and upon facility closure. potash tailings, consisting primarily of salt and clay, are stored in surface disposal sites. phosphate clay residuals from mining in brazil are deposited in large tailing dams. they are regularly monitored to evaluate structural stability and for leaks. the failure of tailings dams and other impoundments at any of our brazilian mining operations could cause severe property and environmental damage and loss of life. as a result, we apply significant financial resources and both internal and external technical resources towards operating those facilities safely. we own and maintain 11 tailings dams in brazil. with the exception of one tailings dam, all have current certificates of stability issued by external consultants, and are in compliance with brazilian legal, operational and safety requirements. in addition, we have arranged for an independent third-party assessment of all of our brazilian dams, which we expect to be completed during the second quarter of 2019. we continue to augment our existing practices in an effort to reduce the risk of catastrophic failure and expect all tailings dams to be in compliance with brazilian safety requirements in the near future. in the ordinary course of business, we may need to build and license new dams. in response to recent large scale tailings dam failures in brazil at unaffiliated mines, new legislation at both federal and state levels has introduced rules regarding tailings dam safety, construction, environmental licenses and operations. we cannot predict the full impact of these legislative actions, or future actions, or whether or how it would affect our brazilian operations or customers. any accident involving our brazilian tailings dams could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in brazil . deliberate, malicious acts, including cyber attacks and terrorism, could damage our facilities, disrupt our operations or injure employees, contractors, customers or the public and result in liability to us. intentional acts of destruction could hinder our sales or production and disrupt our supply chain. our facilities could be damaged or destroyed, reducing our operational production capacity and requiring us to repair or replace our facilities at substantial cost. employees, contractors and the public could suffer substantial physical injury for which we could be liable. governmental authorities may impose security or other requirements that could make our operations more difficult or costly. the consequences of any such actions could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by changing antitrust laws to which we are subject. increases in crop nutrient prices can increase the scrutiny to which we are subject under these laws. we are subject to antitrust and competition laws in various countries throughout the world. we cannot predict how these laws or their interpretation, administration and enforcement will change over time. changes in antitrust laws globally, or in their interpretation, administration or enforcement, may limit our existing or future operations and growth, or the operations of canpotex, which serves as an export association for our potash business. increases in crop nutrient prices have in the past resulted in increased scrutiny of the crop nutrient industry under antitrust and competition laws and can increase the risk that 41 table of contents these laws could be interpreted, administered or enforced in a manner that could affect our operating practices or impose liability on us in a manner that could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by other changes in laws resulting from increases in food and crop nutrient prices. increases in prices for, among other things, food, fuel and crop inputs (including crop nutrients) have in the past been the subject of significant discussion by various governmental bodies and officials throughout the world. in response to increases, it is possible that governments in one or more of the locations in which we operate or where we or our competitors sell our products could take actions that could affect us. such actions could include, among other matters, changes in governmental policies relating to agriculture and biofuels (including changes in subsidy levels), price controls, tariffs, windfall profits taxes or export or import taxes. any such actions could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our competitive position could be adversely affected if we are unable to participate in continuing industry consolidation. most of our products are readily available from a number of competitors, and price and other competition in the crop nutrient industry is intense. in addition, crop nutrient production facilities and distribution activities frequently benefit from economies of scale. as a result, particularly during pronounced cyclical troughs, the crop nutrient industry has a long history of consolidation. mosaic itself is the result of a number of industry consolidations. we expect consolidation among crop nutrient producers could continue. our competitive position could suffer to the extent we are not able to expand our own resources either through consolidations, acquisitions, joint ventures or partnerships. in the future, we may not be able to find suitable companies to combine with, assets to purchase or joint venture or partnership opportunities to pursue. even if we are able to locate desirable opportunities, we may not be able to enter into transactions on economically acceptable terms. if we do not successfully participate in continuing industry consolidation, our ability to compete successfully could be adversely affected and result in the loss of customers or an uncompetitive cost structure, which could adversely affect our sales and profitability. our strategy for managing market and interest rate risk may not be effective. our businesses are affected by fluctuations in market prices for our products, the purchase price of natural gas, ammonia and sulfur consumed in operations, freight and shipping costs, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. we periodically enter into derivatives and forward purchase contracts to mitigate some of these risks. however, our strategy may not be successful in minimizing our exposure to these fluctuations. see market risk in our management's analysis and note 15 of our notes to consolidated financial statements that is incorporated by reference in this report in part ii, item 8. a shortage or unavailability of railcars, tugs, barges and ships for carrying our products and the raw materials we use in our business could result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of production or sales and higher transportation or equipment costs. we rely heavily upon truck, rail, tug, barge and ocean freight transportation to obtain the raw materials we need and to deliver our products to our customers. in addition, the cost of transportation is an important part of the final sale price of our products. finding affordable and dependable transportation is important in obtaining our raw materials and to supply our customers. higher costs for these transportation services or an interruption or slowdown due to factors including high demand, high fuel prices, labor disputes, layoffs or other factors affecting the availability of qualified transportation workers, adverse weather or other environmental events, or changes to rail, barge or ocean freight systems, could negatively affect our ability to produce our products or deliver them to our customers, which could affect our performance and results of operations. strong demand for grain and other products and a strong world economy increase the demand for and reduce the availability of transportation, both domestically and internationally. shortages of railcars, barges and ocean transport for carrying product and increased transit time may result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of sales and higher equipment and transportation costs. in addition, during periods when the shipping industry has a shortage of ships, the substantial time needed to build new ships prevents rapid market response. delays and missed shipments due to transportation shortages, including vessels, barges, railcars and trucks, could result in customer dissatisfaction or loss of sales potential, which could negatively affect our performance and results of operations. additionally, we have agreed under our long-term cf ammonia supply agreement to purchase approximately 545,000 to 725,000 tonnes of ammonia per year during a term that may extend until december 31, 2032, at a price to be determined by a formula based on the prevailing price of u.s. natural gas. we are obligated to provide for transportation of the ammonia 42 table of contents under the agreement, and if we fail to take the required minimum annual amount, cf may elect to require us to make payment of liquidated damages or terminate the agreement. payment of significant liquidated damages or an election by cf to terminate the agreement could adversely affect our business. a lack of customers' access to credit can adversely affect their ability to purchase our products. some of our customers require access to credit to purchase our products. a lack of available credit to customers in one or more countries, due to global or local economic conditions or for other reasons, could adversely affect demand for crop nutrients. we extend trade credit to our customers and guarantee the financing that some of our customers use to purchase our products. our results of operations may be adversely affected if these customers are unable to repay the trade credit from us or financing from their banks. increases in prices for crop nutrient, other agricultural inputs and grain may increase this risk. we extend trade credit to our customers in the united states and throughout the world, in some cases for extended periods of time. in brazil, where there are fewer third-party financing sources available to farmers, we also have several programs under which we guarantee customers' financing from financial institutions that they use to purchase our products. as our exposure to longer trade credit extended throughout the world and use of guarantees in brazil increases, we are increasingly exposed to the risk that some of our customers will not pay us or the amounts we have guaranteed. additionally, we become increasingly exposed to risk due to weather and crop growing conditions, fluctuations in commodity prices or foreign currencies, and other factors that influence the price, supply and demand for agricultural commodities. significant defaults by our customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. increases in prices for crop nutrients increase the dollar amount of our sales to customers. the larger dollar value of our customers' purchases may also lead them to request longer trade credit from us and/or increase their need for us to guarantee their financing of our products. either factor could increase the amount of our exposure to the risk that our customers may be unable to repay the trade credit from us or financing from their banks that we guarantee. in addition, increases in prices for other agricultural inputs and grain may increase the working capital requirements, indebtedness and other liabilities of our customers, increase the risk that they will default on the trade credit from us or their financing that we guarantee, and decrease the likelihood that we will be able to collect from our customers in the event of their default. provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. our restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. these provisions include the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent and the inability of our stockholders to request that our board of directors or chairman of our board call a special meeting of stockholders. we are also subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. in general, section 203 prohibits a publicly held delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years from the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the interested stockholder attained this status with the approval of the board of directors or unless the business combination was approved in a prescribed manner. a business combination includes mergers, asset sales and other transactions resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder. subject to exceptions, an interested stockholder is a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns, or within three years owned, 15% or more of the corporation's voting stock. this statute could prohibit or delay the accomplishment of mergers or other takeover or change in control attempts with respect to us and, accordingly, may discourage attempts to acquire us. these provisions apply not only when they may protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics but even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is in our best interests and those of our stockholders. our success will continue to depend on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified and motivated employees. we believe our continued success depends on the collective abilities and efforts of our employees. like many businesses, a significant number of our employees, including some of our most highly skilled employees with specialized expertise in potash and phosphates operations, will be approaching retirement age throughout the next decade and beyond. in addition, we 43 table of contents compete for a talented workforce with other businesses, particularly within the mining and chemicals industries in general and the crop nutrients industry in particular. our expansion plans are highly dependent on our ability to attract, retain and train highly qualified and motivated employees who are essential to the success of our ongoing operations as well as to our expansion plans. if we were to be unsuccessful in attracting, retaining and training the employees we require, our ongoing operations and expansion plans could be materially and adversely affected. future product or technological innovation could affect our business. future product or technological innovations by third parties such as the development of seeds that require less crop nutrients, the development of substitutes for our products or developments in the application of crop nutrients, if they occur, could have the potential to adversely affect the demand for our products and our results of operations, liquidity and capital resources. we may fail to fully realize the anticipated benefits and synergies of our acquisition (the acquisition ) of the global phosphate and potash operations of vale s.a. ( vale ) conducted through vale fertilizantes s.a. (now known as mosaic fertilizantes p&amp;k s.a.). the success of the acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and synergies. our ability to realize these anticipated benefits and synergies is subject to certain risks including: our ability to successfully integrate mosaic fertilizantes to eliminate duplicative overhead and other costs and realize our cost savings goals; whether the combined operations will perform as expected; whether the integration of mosaic fertilizantes takes longer than anticipated or involves higher than projected integration costs; whether the integration process disrupts our on-going operations or diverts the attention of our management from our current operations; and political and economic instability in brazil or changes in government regulation or policy in brazil, such as higher costs associated with the implementation of new freight tables; the success of our other strategic initiatives depends on our ability to effectively manage these initiatives, and to successfully integrate and grow acquired businesses. in addition to the acquisition, we have other significant ongoing strategic initiatives, including, principally our plans to expand the annual production capacity of our potash business and mwspc. these strategic initiatives involve capital and other expenditures of several billions of dollars over a number of years and require effective project management and, in the case of strategic acquisitions, successful integration. to the extent the processes we (or, for the mwspc, we together with our joint venture partners) put in place to manage these initiatives or integrate and grow acquired businesses are not effective, our capital expenditure and other costs may exceed our expectations or the benefits we expect from these initiatives might not be fully realized, or both, thereby resulting in adverse effects on our operating results and financial condition. we may fail to fully realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings of our long-term cf ammonia supply agreement. we use ammonia as a raw material in the production of our concentrated phosphate products. under our long-term cf ammonia supply agreements we have agreed to purchase approximately 545,000 to 725,000 tonnes of ammonia per year during a term that may extend until december 31, 2032 at a price to be determined by a formula based on the prevailing price of u.s. natural gas. the success of this agreement will depend, in part, on our ability to realize cost savings from the agreement's natural gas based pricing. if the price of natural gas rises materially or the market price for ammonia falls outside of the range we currently anticipate over the term of the agreement, we may not realize a cost benefit from the agreement, or the cost of our ammonia under the agreement could be a competitive disadvantage. in addition, our ability to realize benefits and cost savings is subject to certain additional risks, including whether cf successfully performs its obligations under the agreement over the life of its commitment and our ability to take delivery of the required minimum annual amount of ammonia over the life of our commitment. 44 table of contents cyber attacks could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse impact on our business. as a global company, we utilize and rely upon information technology systems in many aspects of our business, including internal and external communications and the management of our accounting, financial, production and supply chain functions. as we become more dependent on information technologies to conduct our operations, and as the number and sophistication of cyber attacks increase, the risks associated with cyber security increase. these risks apply to us, our employees, and to third parties on whose systems we rely for the conduct of our business. failure to effectively anticipate, prevent, detect and recover from the increasing number and sophistication of cyber attacks could result in theft, loss or misuse of, or damage or modification of our information, and cause disruptions or delays in our business, reputational damage and third-party claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 48 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we have included a discussion about market risks under market risk in the management's analysis that is included in this report in part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . this information is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 27 risk factors. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the risks and uncertainties described below. our esterhazy mine has had an inflow of salt saturated brine for more than 30 years. since december 1985, we have had inflows of salt saturated brine into our esterhazy, saskatchewan mine. over the past century, several potash mines experiencing water inflow problems have flooded. in order to control brine inflows at esterhazy, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, expenditures, certain of which, due to their nature, have been capitalized, while others have been charged to expense. at various times, we experience changing amounts and patterns of brine inflows at the esterhazy mine. periodically, some of these inflows have exceeded available pumping capacity. if that were to continue for several months without abatement, it could exceed our available storage capacity and ability to effectively manage the brine inflow. this could adversely affect production at the esterhazy mine. the brine inflow is variable, resulting in both net inflows (the rate of inflow is more than the amount we are pumping out of the mine) and net outflows (when we are pumping more brine out of the mine than the rate of inflow). there can be no assurance that: our pumping, surface storage, underground storage or injection well capacities for brine will continue to be sufficient, or that the pumping, grouting and other measures that we use to manage the inflows at the esterhazy mine will continue to be effective; there will not be a disruption in the supply of calcium chloride, which is a primary material used to reduce or prevent the flow of incoming brine; our estimates of the volumes of net inflows or net outflows of brine, or storage capacity for brine at the esterhazy mine, are accurate; the volumes of the brine inflows will not fluctuate from time to time, the rate of the brine inflows will not be greater than our prior experience or current assumptions, changes in inflow patterns will not adversely affect our ability to locate and manage the inflows, or that any such fluctuations, increases or changes would not be material; and the expenditures to control the inflows will be consistent with our prior experience or future estimates. 27 table of contents from time to time, new or improved technology becomes available to facilitate our management of the inflows, such as when horizontal drilling techniques were developed and refined. taking advantage of these new or improved technologies may require significant capital expenditures and/or may increase our costs of management. due to the ongoing brine inflow at esterhazy, subject to exceptions that are limited in scope and amount, we are unable to obtain insurance coverage for underground operations for water incursion problems. our mines at colonsay, saskatchewan, and carlsbad, new mexico, are also subject to the risks of inflow of water as a result of our shaft mining operations. it is possible that the costs of remedial efforts at esterhazy may further increase in the future and that such an increase could be material, or, in the extreme scenario, that the brine inflows, risk to employees or management costs may increase to a level which would cause us to change our mining processes or abandon the mines. see the key factors that can affect results of operations and financial condition and potash net sales and gross margin sections of our management's analysis, which sections are incorporated herein by reference, for a discussion of costs, risks and other information relating to the brine inflows. our operating results are highly dependent upon and fluctuate based upon business and economic conditions and governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry in which we or our customers operate. these factors are outside of our control and may significantly affect our profitability. our operating results are highly dependent upon business and economic conditions and governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, which we cannot control. the agricultural products business can be affected by a number of factors, the most important of which are: weather and field conditions (particularly during periods of traditionally high crop nutrients consumption); quantities of crop nutrients imported and exported; current and projected inventories and prices, which are heavily influenced by u.s. exports and world-wide markets; and governmental policies, including farm and biofuel policies, which may directly or indirectly influence the number of acres planted, the level of inventories, the mix of crops planted or crop prices or otherwise negatively affect our operating results. international market conditions, which are also outside of our control, may also significantly influence our operating results. the international market for crop nutrients is influenced by such factors as the relative value of the u.s. dollar and its impact upon the cost of importing crop nutrients, foreign agricultural policies, including subsidy policies, the existence of, or changes in, import or foreign currency exchange barriers in certain foreign markets, changes in the hard currency demands of certain countries and other regulatory policies of foreign governments, as well as the laws and policies of the united states affecting foreign trade and investment. our most important products are global commodities, and we face intense global competition from other crop nutrient producers that can affect our prices and volumes. our most important products are concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, including diammonium phosphate, or dap, monoammonium phosphate, or map, microessentials and muriate of potash, or mop. we sell most of our dap, map and mop in the form of global commodities. our sales of these products face intense global competition from other crop nutrient producers. changes in competitors' production or shifts in their marketing focus have in the past significantly affected both the prices at which we sell our products and the volumes that we sell, and are likely to continue to do so in the future. competitors are more likely to increase their production at times when world agricultural and crop nutrient markets are strong, and to focus on sales into regions where their returns are highest. increases in the global supply of dap, map and mop or competitors' increased sales into regions in which we have significant sales could adversely affect our prices and volumes. competitors and potential new entrants in the markets for both concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and potash have in recent years expanded capacity, or begun, or announced plans, to expand capacity or build new facilities. the extent to which current global or local economic and financial conditions, changes in global or local economic and financial conditions, or other factors may cause delays or cancellation of some of these ongoing or planned projects, or result in the acceleration of existing or new projects, is unclear. in addition, certain of our products sold to china may be subject to tariffs due to ongoing trade tensions between china and the united states. the level of exports by chinese producers of concentrated phosphate 28 table of contents crop nutrients depends to a significant extent on chinese government actions to curb exports through, among other measures, prohibitive export taxes at times when the government believes it desirable to assure ample domestic supplies of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients to stimulate grain and oilseed production. in addition, the other member of canpotex is among our competitors who may, in the future, expand its potash production capacity. each canpotex member's respective shares of canpotex sales is based upon that member's respective proven peaking capacity for producing potash. when a canpotex member expands its production capacity, the new capacity is added to that member's proven peaking capacity based on a proving run at the maximum production level. alternatively, canpotex members may elect to rely on an independent engineering firm and approved protocols to calculate their proven peaking capacity. antitrust and competition laws prohibit the members of canpotex from coordinating their production decisions, including the timing of their respective proving runs. worldwide potash production levels during these proving runs could exceed then-current market demand, resulting in an oversupply of potash and lower potash prices. we cannot accurately predict when or whether members' or new entrants' ongoing or planned capacity expansions or new facilities will be completed, the timing of competitors' tests to prove peaking capacity for canpotex purposes, the cumulative effect of these and recently completed expansions, the impact of tariffs on exports to china, or future decisions by the chinese government on the level of chinese exports of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, or the effects of these or other actions by our competitors on the prices for our products or the volumes that we will be able to sell. the effects of any of these events occurring could be materially adverse to our results of operations. our crop nutrients and other products are subject to price and demand volatility resulting from periodic imbalances of supply and demand, which may cause our results of operations to fluctuate. historically, the market for crop nutrients has been cyclical, and prices and demand for our products have fluctuated to a significant extent, particularly for phosphates and, to a lesser extent, potash. periods of high demand, increasing profits and high capacity utilization tend to lead to new plant investment and increased production in the industry. this growth increases supply until the market is over-saturated, leading to declining prices and declining capacity utilization until the cycle repeats. as a result, crop nutrient prices and volumes have been, and are expected to continue to be, volatile. this price and volume volatility may cause our results of operations to fluctuate and potentially deteriorate. the price at which we sell our crop nutrient products and our sales volumes could fall in the event of industry oversupply conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in contrast, high prices may lead our customers and farmers to delay purchasing decisions in anticipation of future lower prices, thus impacting our sales volumes. due to reduced market demand, depressed agricultural economic conditions and other factors, we and our predecessors have at various times suspended or curtailed production at some of our facilities. the extent to which we utilize available capacity at our facilities will cause fluctuations in our results of operations, as we will incur costs for any temporary or indefinite shutdowns of our facilities and lower sales tend to lead to higher fixed costs as a percentage of sales. variations in crop nutrient application rates may exacerbate the cyclicality of the crop nutrient markets. farmers are able to maximize their economic return by applying optimum amounts of crop nutrients. farmers' decisions about the application rate for each crop nutrient, or to forego application of a crop nutrient, particularly phosphate and potash, vary from year to year depending on a number of factors, including, among others, crop prices, crop nutrient and other crop input costs or the level of the crop nutrient remaining in the soil following the previous harvest. farmers are more likely to increase application rates when crop prices are relatively high, crop nutrient and other crop input costs are relatively low and the level of the crop nutrient remaining in the soil is relatively low. conversely, farmers are likely to reduce or forego application when farm economics are weak or declining or the level of the crop nutrients remaining in the soil is relatively high. this variability in application rates can materially accentuate the cyclicality in prices for our products and our sales volumes. our crop nutrient business is seasonal, which may result in carrying significant amounts of inventory and seasonal variations in working capital, and our inability to predict future seasonal crop nutrient demand accurately may result in excess inventory or product shortages. the use of crop nutrients is seasonal. farmers tend to apply crop nutrients during two short application periods, the strongest one in the spring, before planting, and the other in the fall, after harvest. as a result, the strongest demand for our products typically occurs during the spring planting season, with a second period of strong demand following the fall harvest. in contrast, we and other crop nutrient producers generally produce our products throughout the year. as a result, we and/or our customers generally build inventories during the low demand periods of the year in order to ensure timely product availability 29 table of contents during the peak sales seasons. the seasonality of crop nutrient demand results in our sales volumes and net sales typically being the highest during the north american spring season and our working capital requirements typically being the highest just prior to the start of the spring season. our quarterly financial results can vary significantly from one year to the next due to weather-related shifts in planting schedules and purchasing patterns. if seasonal demand exceeds our projections, we will not have enough product and our customers may acquire products from our competitors, which would negatively impact our profitability. if seasonal demand is less than we expect, we will be left with excess inventory and higher working capital and liquidity requirements. the degree of seasonality of our business can change significantly from year to year due to conditions in the agricultural industry and other factors. the distribution channels for crop nutrients have capacity to build significant levels of inventories, which can adversely affect our sales volumes and selling prices. in order to balance the production needs of crop nutrient producers with farmers' seasonal use of crop nutrients, crop nutrient distribution channels need to have the capacity to build significant inventories. the build-up of inventories in the distribution channels can become excessive, particularly during the cyclical periods of low demand that have been typical in the crop nutrient industry. when there are excessive inventories in the distribution channel, our sales volumes and selling prices can be adversely impacted, even during periods in which farmers' use of crop nutrients may remain strong. changes in transportation costs can affect our sales volumes and selling prices. the cost of delivery is a significant factor in the total cost to customers and farmers of crop nutrients. as a result, changes in transportation costs, or in customer expectations about them, can affect our sales volumes and prices. customer expectations about future events can have a significant effect on the demand for our products. these expectations can significantly affect our sales volumes and selling prices. customer expectations about future events have had and are expected to continue to have an effect on the demand and prices for crop nutrients. future events that may be affected by customer expectations include, among others: customer expectations about future crop nutrient prices and availability. customer expectations about prices and availability of crop nutrients have had and are expected to continue to have an effect on the demand for crop nutrients. when customers anticipate increasing crop nutrient prices, customers tend to accumulate inventories before the anticipated price increases. this can result in a lag in our realization of rising market prices for our products. conversely, customers tend to delay their purchases when they anticipate future prices for crop nutrients will stabilize or decrease, adversely affecting our sales volumes and selling prices. customer expectations about availability of crop nutrients can have similar effects on sales volumes and prices. customer expectations about future farmer economics. similarly, customer expectations about future farmer economics have had and are expected to continue to have an effect on the demand for crop nutrients. when customers anticipate improving farmer economics, customers tend to accumulate crop nutrient inventories in anticipation of increasing sales volumes and selling prices. this can result in a lag in our realization of rising market prices for our products. conversely, when customers anticipate declining farmer economics, customers tend to reduce the level of their purchases of crop nutrients, adversely affecting our sales volumes and selling prices. changes in customer expectations about transportation costs. as discussed above, increasing transportation costs effectively increase customers' and farmers' costs for crop nutrients and can reduce the amount we realize for our sales. expectations of decreasing transportation costs can result in customers and farmers anticipating that they may be able to decrease their costs by delaying purchases. as a result, changes in customer expectations about transportation costs can affect our sales volumes and prices. we conduct our operations primarily through a limited number of key production and distribution facilities. any disruption at any one of these facilities could have a material adverse impact on our business. the risk of material disruption increases when demand for our products results in high operating rates at our facilities. we conduct our operations through a limited number of key production and distribution facilities. these facilities include our phosphate mines and concentrates plants; our potash mines; and the ports and other distribution facilities through which we, 30 table of contents canpotex and any joint ventures in which we participate, conduct our respective businesses, as well as other commercial arrangements with unrelated third parties. any disruption of operations at any one of these facilities has the possibility of significantly affecting our production or our ability to distribute our products. operating these facilities at high rates during periods of high demand for our products increases the risk of mechanical or structural failures, decreases the time available for routine maintenance and increases the impact on our operating results from any disruption. a disruption of operations at any one of our key facilities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. examples of the types of events that could result in a disruption at one of these facilities include: adverse weather; strikes or other work stoppages; deliberate, malicious acts, including acts of terrorism; political and economic instability; cyber attacks; risks associated with our international operations; changes in permitting, financial assurance or other environmental, health and safety laws or other changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate; legal and regulatory proceedings; our relationships with the other member of canpotex and any joint ventures in which we participate and their or our exit from participation in canpotex or any such joint ventures; other changes in our commercial arrangements with unrelated third parties; brine inflows at our esterhazy, saskatchewan, mine or our other shaft mines; mechanical failure and accidents or other failures occurring in the course of operating activities, including at our gypstacks, clay settling areas and tailing dams; and other factors. insurance market conditions, our loss experience and other factors affect the insurance coverage that we carry, and we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. as a result, our insurance coverage may not adequately cover our losses. we maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance policies, but we are not insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. we are subject to various self-retentions and deductibles under these insurance policies. as a result of market conditions, our loss experience and other factors, our premiums, self-retentions and deductibles for insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. in addition, significantly increased costs could lead us to decide to reduce, or possibly eliminate, coverage. as a result, a disruption of operations at one of our key facilities or a significant casualty could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. important raw materials and energy used in our businesses in the past have been and may in the future be the subject of volatile pricing. changes in the price of our raw materials could have a material impact on our businesses. natural gas, ammonia and sulfur are key raw materials used in the manufacture of phosphate crop nutrient products. natural gas is used as both a chemical feedstock and a fuel to produce anhydrous ammonia, which is a raw material used in the production of concentrated phosphate products. natural gas is also a significant energy source used in the potash solution mining process. from time to time, our profitability has been and may in the future be impacted by the price and availability of these raw materials and other energy costs. because most of our products are commodities, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass through increased costs to our customers. a significant increase in the price of natural gas, ammonia, sulfur or energy costs that is not recovered through an increase in the price of our related crop nutrients products could have a material adverse impact on our business. in addition, under our long-term cf ammonia supply agreement we have agreed to purchase approximately 545,000 to 725,000 tonnes of ammonia per year during a term that may extend until december 31, 2032, and at a price to be determined by a formula based on the prevailing price of u.s. natural gas. if the price of natural gas rises or the market price for ammonia falls outside of the range anticipated at execution of this agreement, we may not realize a cost benefit from the natural gas-based pricing over the term of the agreement, or the cost of our ammonia under the agreement could become a competitive disadvantage. at times, we have paid considerably more for ammonia under the agreement than what we would have paid had we purchased it in the spot market. during periods when the price for concentrated phosphates is falling because of falling raw material prices, we may experience a lag in realizing the benefits of the falling raw materials prices. this lag can adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. during some periods, changes in market prices for raw materials can lead to changes in the global market prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients. in particular, the global market prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients can be affected by changes in the market prices for sulfur, ammonia, phosphate rock or phosphoric acid raw materials. increasing market prices for these raw materials tend to put upward pressure on the selling prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients, and decreasing market prices for these raw materials tend to put downward pressure on selling prices for concentrated phosphate crop nutrients. when the market prices for these raw materials falls rapidly, the selling prices for our concentrated phosphate crop nutrients can fall more rapidly than we are able to consume our raw material inventory that we 31 table of contents purchased or committed to purchase in the past at higher prices. as a result, our costs may not fall as rapidly as the selling prices of our products. until we are able to consume the higher-priced raw materials, our gross margins and profitability can be adversely affected. during periods when the prices for our products are falling because of falling raw material prices, we could be required to write-down the value of our inventories. any such write-down could adversely affect our results of operations and the value of our assets. we carry our inventories at the lower of cost or market. in periods when the market prices for our products are falling rapidly, including in response to falling market prices for raw materials, it is possible that we could be required to write-down the value of our inventories if market prices fall below our costs. any such write-down could adversely affect our results of operations and the value of our assets. any such effect could be material. our estimates of future selling prices reflect in part the purchase commitments we have from our customers. as a result, defaults on these existing purchase commitments because of the global or local economic and financial conditions or for other reasons could adversely affect our estimates of future selling prices and require additional inventory write-downs. in the event of a disruption to existing terminaling facilities or transportation for our products or raw materials, alternative terminaling facilities or transportation might not be available on a timely basis or have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our customers or facilities. terminaling facilities and transportation include the ports and other distribution facilities through which we, canpotex and the joint ventures in which we participate, conduct our respective businesses; transportation and related equipment arrangements; and other commercial arrangements with unrelated third parties. examples of the types of events that could result in a disruption of terminaling facilities or transportation include: adverse weather; strikes or other work stoppages; deliberate, malicious acts, including cyber attacks; political and economic instability and other risks associated with our international operations; changes in permitting, financial assurance or other environmental, health and safety laws or other changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate; legal and regulatory proceedings; our relationships with the other member of canpotex and any joint ventures in which we participate and their or our exit from participation in canpotex or any such joint ventures; other changes in our commercial arrangements with unrelated third parties; accidents occurring in the course of operating activities; lack of truck, rail, barge or ship transportation; and other factors. we discuss a number of these examples in more detail throughout this risk factors section. such disruption could adversely impact our business and financial results of operations. we are subject to risks associated with our international sales and operations, which could negatively affect our sales to customers in foreign countries as well as our operations and assets in foreign countries. some of these factors may also make it less attractive to distribute cash generated by our operations outside the united states to our stockholders, or to utilize cash generated by our operations in one country to fund our operations or repayments of indebtedness in another country or to support other corporate purposes. for 2019 , we derived approximately 74% of our net sales from customers located outside of the united states. as a result, we are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: difficulties and costs associated with complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory environments; increased government ownership and regulation of the economy in the countries we serve; political and economic instability, including the possibility for civil unrest, inflation and adverse economic conditions resulting from governmental attempts to reduce inflation, such as imposition of higher interest rates and wage and price controls; unpredictable tax audit practices of various governments; nationalization of properties by foreign governments; the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls, trade barriers or other restrictions, or government-imposed increases in the cost of resources and materials necessary for the conduct of our operations or the completion of strategic initiatives, including with respect to our joint ventures; and currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies, particularly the brazilian real and the canadian dollar. 32 table of contents the occurrence of any of the above in the countries in which we operate or elsewhere could jeopardize or affect our ability to transact business there and could adversely affect our revenues and operating results and the value of our assets located outside of the united states. in addition, tax regulations and tax audit practices, currency exchange controls and other restrictions may also make it economically unattractive to: distribute cash generated by our operations outside the united states to our stockholders; or utilize cash generated by our operations in one country to fund our operations or repayments of indebtedness in another country or to support other corporate purposes. changes in tax laws or regulations or their interpretation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities, could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we are subject to taxes, including income taxes, resource taxes and royalties, and non-income based taxes in the united states, canada, china, brazil and other countries where we operate. changes in tax laws or regulations or their interpretation could result in higher taxes, which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in 2018, u.s. federal tax law changes took effect. this was a significant change to the u.s. tax system of taxation resulting in numerous areas open to interpretation given the newness and breadth of changes to the rules. as a result, risk exists related to developing interpretation and application of the new rules that could result in higher taxes which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we are subject to periodic audits by various levels of tax authorities in all countries where we have meaningful operations. the due process, audit and appeal practices and procedures of such authorities may vary significantly by jurisdiction, may be unpredictable (and unreliable) in nature and may result in significant risk to us. for various reasons, some governments may issue significant reassessments on audit based positions not fully grounded in law or fact, even though, upon disputing the reassessments, a great many are overturned on administrative appeal and through the court system. certain systems involve tax litigation as a common practice. in certain countries, there are requirements to pay a reassessment (even though the matter has not been finally decided by the tax administration or a court of law) while the taxpayer has a well-supported objection and appeals administratively or in court. this may result in tying up significant funds and/or creating adverse treasury and credit risks that may interrupt, impede or otherwise materially affect our business operations. our assets outside of north america are located in countries with volatile conditions, which could subject us and our assets to significant risks. we are a global business with substantial assets located outside of the united states and canada. our operations in brazil, china, india and paraguay are a fundamental part of our business. we have a majority interest in the joint venture entity operating the miski mayo mine in peru that supplies phosphate rock to us. we also have a joint venture investment in mwspc, which operates a mine and chemical complexes that produce phosphate fertilizers and other downstream products in the kingdom of saudi arabia. volatile economic, political and market conditions in these and other emerging market countries may have a negative impact on our operations, operating results and financial condition. in addition, unfavorable changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, or governmental actions and policies and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and the pricing and sourcing of our raw materials, may also have a negative impact on our operations, operating results and financial condition. natural resource extraction is an important part of the economy in peru, and, in the past, there have been protests against other natural resource operations in peru. there remain numerous social conflicts that exist within the natural resource sector in peru. as a result, there is potential for active protests against natural resource companies. if the government of peru's proactive efforts to address the social and environmental issues surrounding natural resource activities are not successful, protests could extend to or impact the miski mayo mine and adversely affect our interest in the miski mayo joint venture or the supply of phosphate rock to us from the mine. adverse weather conditions, including the impact of hurricanes, and excess heat, cold, snow, rainfall and drought, have in the past, and may in the future, adversely affect our operations, and result in increased costs, decreased sales or production and potential liabilities. adverse weather conditions, including the impact of hurricanes and excess heat, cold, snow, rainfall and drought, have in the past and may in the future adversely affect our operations, particularly our phosphates business. in the past, hurricanes have resulted in minor physical damage to our facilities in florida and louisiana. 33 table of contents additionally, water treatment costs due to high water balances, tend to increase significantly following excess rainfall from hurricanes or other adverse weather. some of our florida and louisiana facilities have had or could have high water levels that may require treatment. high water balances in the past at phosphate facilities in florida also led the florida department of environmental protection ( fdep ) to adopt rules requiring phosphate production facilities to meet more stringent process water management objectives for phosphogypsum management systems. if additional excess rainfall or hurricanes occur in coming years, our facilities may be required to take additional measures to manage process water to comply with existing or future requirements and these measures could potentially have a material effect on our business and financial condition. adverse weather may also cause a loss of production due to disruptions in our supply chain or adversely affect delivery of our products to our customers. for example, oil refineries that supply sulfur to us may suspend operations as a result of a hurricane, and incoming shipments of ammonia can be delayed, disrupting production at our florida or louisiana facilities and delivery of our products. excess rainfall and drought have in the past, and may in the future adversely affect us. for example, we recently experienced the wettest year in north america in nearly 50 years which reduced fertilizer applications by farmers. excess rainfall also resulted in higher river levels which adversely affected delivery of our products. drought can reduce farmers' crop yields and the uptake of phosphates and potash, reducing the need for application of additional phosphates and potash for the next planting season. drought can also lower river levels, adversely affecting delivery of our products to our customers. our operations are dependent on having the required permits and approvals from governmental authorities. denial or delay by a government agency in issuing any of our permits and approvals or imposition of restrictive conditions on us with respect to these permits and approvals may impair our business and operations. we hold numerous governmental environmental, mining and other permits and approvals authorizing operations at each of our facilities. our ability to continue operations at a facility could be materially affected by a government agency decision to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed permit or approval, to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval or to substantially change conditions applicable to a permit modification, or by legal actions that successfully challenge our permits. expanding our operations or extending operations into new areas is also predicated upon securing the necessary environmental or other permits or approvals. we have been engaged in, and over the next several years, we and our subsidiaries will be continuing our, efforts to obtain permits in support of anticipated operations at certain of our properties. a denial of our permits, the issuance of permits with cost-prohibitive conditions, substantial delays in issuing key permits, or legal actions that prevent us from relying on permits or revocation of permits, could prevent us from mining at certain of our properties and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for example: in florida, local community involvement has become an increasingly important factor in the permitting process for mining companies, and various counties and other parties in florida have in the past filed and continue to file lawsuits challenging the issuance or renewal of some of the permits we require. these actions can significantly delay issuance of the permits we need to operate or expand operations. we have included additional discussion about permitting for our phosphate mines in florida under environmental, health, safety and security matters operating requirements and impacts permitting in our management's analysis. we are subject to financial assurance requirements as part of our routine business operations. these financial assurance requirements affect our costs and increase our liquidity requirements. if we were unable to satisfy applicable financial assurance requirements, we might not be able to obtain or maintain permits we need to operate our business as we have in the past. our need to comply with these requirements could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. in many cases, as a condition to obtaining or maintaining permits and approvals or otherwise, we are required to comply with financial assurance requirements of governmental authorities. the purpose of these requirements is to provide comfort to the government that sufficient funds will be available for the ultimate closure, post-closure care or reclamation of our facilities. in some cases, we are able to comply through the satisfaction of applicable state financial strength tests. but, if we are unable to do so, we must utilize alternative methods of complying with the financial assurance requirements or we would be 34 table of contents prevented from continuing our mining operations and also could be subject to enforcement proceedings brought by relevant government agencies. potential alternative methods of compliance include providing credit support in the form of cash escrows or trusts, surety bonds from surety or insurance companies, letters of credit from banks, or other forms of financial instruments or collateral to satisfy the financial assurance requirements or negotiating a consent agreement that establishes a different form of financial assurance. use of alternative means of financial assurance imposes additional expense on us. some of them, such as letters of credit, also use a portion of our available liquidity. other alternative means of financial assurance, such as surety bonds, may in some cases require collateral and generally require us to obtain a discharge of the bonds or to post additional collateral (typically in the form of cash or letters of credit) at the request of the issuer of the bonds. collateral that is required may be in many forms including letters of credit or other financial instruments that utilize a portion of our available liquidity, or in the form of assets such as real estate, which reduces our flexibility to manage or sell assets. for example: with respect to two facilities we acquired as part of our acquisition of the florida phosphate assets and assumption of certain related liabilities of cf (the cf phosphate assets acquisition ), (i) we currently use a financial test supported by a corporate guarantee to meet florida state regulations governing financial assurance related to the post-closure care of the phosphogypsum stack at our closed bonnie facility in florida, and (ii) under the terms of a consent decree with federal and state regulators we currently provide credit support in the form of a surety bond from insurance companies, as a means of financial assurance for closure and post-closure care requirements for the phosphogypsum stack at our plant city, florida facility. these financial assurance funding obligations require estimates of future expenditures that could be impacted by refinements in scope, technological developments, cost inflation, changes in regulations, discount rates and the timing of activities. additional financial assurance commitments could be required in the future if increases in cost estimates exceed the assurance amount currently in place. in addition, with respect to the plant city facility, our use of a surety bond may in some cases require that we obtain a discharge of the bond or post collateral at the request of the issuers of the bond. required collateral may be in many forms including letters of credit or other financial instruments that utilize a portion of our available liquidity. any of these circumstances could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. as more fully discussed in note 15 of our notes to consolidated financial statements, in 2016 under the terms of two consent decrees with federal and state regulators, we deposited a total of $630 million into two trust funds to provide additional financial assurance for the estimated costs of closure and post-closure care of most of our other phosphogypsum stack systems in florida (excluding those acquired as part of the cf phosphate assets acquisition) and louisiana. as required under one of the consent decrees, we have also issued a $50 million letter of credit to further support our financial assurance obligations. we have also agreed to guarantee the difference between the amounts held in each trust fund (including earnings) and the estimated closure and long-term care costs. compliance with the financial assurance requirements included in these consent decrees satisfies substantially all of our state financial assurance obligations relating to the covered facilities, which were historically satisfied without the need for any expenditure of corporate funds, to the extent our financial statements met certain balance sheet and income statement financial strength tests. in the past, we have also not always been able to satisfy applicable financial strength tests, and, in the future, it is possible that we will not be able to pass the applicable financial strength tests, negotiate or receive approval of consent decrees, establish escrow or trust accounts or obtain letters of credit, surety bonds or other financial instruments on acceptable terms and conditions or at a reasonable cost, or that the form and/or cost of compliance could increase, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. we have included additional discussion about financial assurance requirements under off balance sheet arrangements and obligations other commercial commitments in our management's analysis. the discontinuation or replacement of libor may affect our financial condition and results of operations. on july 27, 2017, the united kingdom's financial conduct authority announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit rates for calculation of the london interbank offered rate ( libor ) by the end of 2021. at this time, we cannot predict the impact the discontinuation, reform, or replacement of libor may have on interest rates paid on our credit facility and other financial instruments and interest rate swaps. as a result, it is possible that these interest rate fluctuations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 35 table of contents the other environmental, health and safety regulations to which we are subject may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition to permitting and financial assurance requirements, we are subject to numerous other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the u.s., canada, china, brazil and other countries where we operate. these laws and regulations govern a wide range of matters, including environmental controls, land reclamation, discharges to air and water and remediation of hazardous substance releases. they significantly affect our operating activities as well as the level of our operating costs and capital expenditures. in some international jurisdictions, environmental laws change frequently and it may be difficult for us to determine if we are in compliance with all material environmental laws at any given time. if we are not in compliance, or the changes require new investment in our business, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. we are, and may in the future be, involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that could be material to us. these proceedings include legacy matters arising from activities of our predecessor companies and from facilities and businesses that we have never owned or operated. we have in the past been, are currently and in the future, may be subject to legal and regulatory proceedings that could be material to our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. joint ventures in which we participate could also become subject to these sorts of proceedings. these proceedings may be brought by the government or private parties and may arise out of a variety of matters, including: allegations by government or private parties that we have violated the permitting, financial assurance or other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations discussed above. for example, in connection with our settlement of matters relating to the u.s. environmental protection agency's ongoing review of mineral processing industries under the u.s. resource conservation and recovery act, we entered into the consent decrees discussed above and in note 15 of our notes to consolidated financial statements, which required us to provide additional financial assurance as described above, pay cash penalties of approximately $8 million in the aggregate, modify certain operating practices and undertake certain capital improvement projects over a period of several years that are expected to result in capital expenditures likely to exceed $200 million in the aggregate. we are also involved in other proceedings alleging that, or to review whether, we have violated environmental laws in the united states and brazil. other environmental, health and safety matters, including alleged personal injury, wrongful death, complaints that our operations are adversely impacting nearby farms and other business operations, other property damage, subsidence from operations, spills or releases to the environment, natural resource damages and other damage to the environment, arising out of operations, including accidents, could result in material impacts to our operations and facilities. in connection with the new wales, florida facility water loss incident, we entered into an administrative consent order with the fdep, as discussed in greater detail in note 24 of our notes to consolidated financial statements. antitrust, commercial, tax (including tax audits) and other disputes. the legal and regulatory proceedings to which we are currently or may in the future be subject can, depending on the circumstances, result in monetary damage awards, fines, penalties, other liabilities, injunctions or other court or administrative rulings that interrupt, impede or otherwise materially affect our business operations, and/or criminal sanctions. among other environmental laws, the u.s. comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act ( cercla ) imposes liability, including for cleanup costs, without regard to fault or to the legality of a party's conduct, on certain categories of persons, including current and former owners and operators of a site and parties who are considered to have contributed to the release of hazardous substances into the environment. under cercla, or various u.s. state analogues, a party may, under certain circumstances, be required to bear more than its proportional share of cleanup costs at a site where it has liability if payments cannot be obtained from other responsible parties. as a crop nutrient company producing and managing chemicals, we periodically may incur liabilities and cleanup costs, under cercla and other environmental laws, with regard to our current or former facilities, adjacent or nearby third-party facilities or offsite disposal locations. pending and potential legal and regulatory proceedings may arise out of our present activities, including operations at current facilities. they may also arise out of past activities by us, our predecessor companies and subsidiaries that our predecessors have sold. these past activities were in some cases at facilities that we and our subsidiaries no longer own or operate and may have never owned or operated. 36 table of contents settlements of legal and regulatory matters frequently require court approval. in the event a court were not to approve of a settlement, it is possible that we and the other party or parties to the matter might not be able to settle it on terms that were acceptable to all parties or that we could be required to accept more stringent terms of settlement than required by the opposing parties. we have included additional information with respect to pending legal and regulatory proceedings in note 24 of our notes to consolidated financial statements and in this report in part i, item 3, legal proceedings . these legal and regulatory proceedings involve inherent uncertainties and could negatively impact our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. the permitting, financial assurance and other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations to which we are subject may become more stringent over time. this could increase the effects on us of these laws and regulations, and the increased effects could be material. continued government and public emphasis on environmental, health and safety issues in the united states, canada, china, brazil, paraguay and other countries where we operate can be expected to result in requirements that apply to us and our operations that are more stringent than those that are described above and elsewhere in this report. these more stringent requirements may include, among other matters; increased levels of future investments and expenditures for environmental controls at ongoing operations, which will be charged against income from future operations; increased levels of the financial assurance requirements to which we are subject, and increased efforts or costs to obtain permits or denial of permits. other new or interpretations of existing statutes or regulations that impose new or more stringent restrictions or liabilities, including liabilities or additional financial assurance requirements under cercla or similar statutes, restrictions or liabilities related to elevated levels of naturally-occurring radiation that arise from disturbing the ground in the course of mining activities; and other matters that could increase our expenses, capital requirements or liabilities or adversely affect our business, liquidity or financial condition. in addition, to the extent restrictions imposed in countries where our competitors operate, such as china, india, former soviet union countries or morocco, are less stringent than in the countries where we operate, our competitors could gain cost or other competitive advantages over us. these effects could be material. among other matters, in recent years there have been a number of initiatives relating to nutrient discharges. new regulatory restrictions developed through these initiatives could have a material effect on either us or our customers. for example, the gulf coast ecosystem restoration task force, established by executive order of the president and comprised of five gulf states and eleven federal agencies, delivered a final strategy for long-term ecosystem restoration for the gulf coast in 2016. the strategy calls for, among other matters, reduction of the flow of excess nutrients into the gulf through state nutrient reduction frameworks, new nutrient reduction approaches and reduction of agricultural and urban sources of excess nutrients. implementation of the strategy will require legislative or regulatory action at the state level. we cannot predict what the requirements of any such legislative or regulatory action could be or whether or how it would affect us or our customers. in june 2015, epa and the u.s. army corps of engineers (the corps ) jointly issued a final rule that proposed to clarify, but may actually expand, the scope of waters regulated under the federal clean water act. the final rule (the 2015 clean water rule ) became effective in august 2015, but has been challenged through numerous lawsuits. in october 2015, the u.s. court of appeals for the sixth circuit issued an order staying the effectiveness of the final rule nationwide pending adjudication of substantive challenges to the rule. in early 2017, the u.s. president issued an executive order directing epa and the corps to publish a proposed rule rescinding or revising the new rule. in june 2017, epa and the corps issued a proposed rule that would rescind the 2015 clean water rule and re-codify regulatory text that existed prior to enactment of the 2015 clean water rule. in november 2017, epa issued a rule notice proposing to extend the applicability date of the 2015 clean water rule for two years from the date of final action on the proposed rule, to provide continuity and regulatory certainty while agencies proceed to consider potential changes to the 2015 clean water rule. in january 2018, the u.s. supreme court unanimously held all challenges to the 2015 clean water rule must be heard in federal district courts rather than in the federal courts of appeal, overruling a decision by the sixth circuit's court of appeals. with the sixth circuit court of appeals no longer having jurisdiction, that court lifted its 2015 nationwide stay in february 2018. after the nationwide stay was lifted, a number of u.s. district courts revived dormant litigation that challenged the 2015 clean water rule. in june 2018, the u.s. district court for the southern district of georgia entered an injunction 37 table of contents against implementation of the 2015 clean water rule covering 11 states, including florida. as of september 2018, federal district courts have put the 2015 clean water rule on hold in 28 states, the district of columbia and the u.s. territories. on december 11, 2018, epa and the corps issued a proposed rule to replace the 2015 clean water rule. the agencies' stated interpretation for the proposed rule is to provide clarity, predictability and consistency so that the regulated community can better understand where the clean water act applies and where it does not. epa and the corps received over 600,000 public comments on the proposed rule. on september 12, 2019, epa and the corps jointly issued a final regulation that repeals the 2015 clean water rule and restores the previous regulatory regime. this regulation reestablishes national consistency by returning all jurisdictions to the longstanding regulatory framework that existed prior to the 2015 clean water rule. the final rule takes effect sixty (60) days after publication in the federal register. a challenge to this legislation is possible. repeal of the 2015 clean water rule was the first step in a two-step rulemaking process to define the scope of waters of the united states that are regulated under the clean water act. the second step is finalizing the regulation proposed in december 2018 that would define where federal jurisdiction begins and ends in accordance with the clean water act and supreme court precedent. regulatory restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions and climate change regulations in the united states, canada or elsewhere could adversely affect us, and these effects could be material. various governmental initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions are under way or under consideration around the world. these initiatives could restrict our operating activities, require us to make changes in our operating activities that would increase our operating costs, reduce our efficiency or limit our output, require us to make capital improvements to our facilities, increase our energy, raw material and transportation costs or limit their availability, or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, and these effects could be material to us. governmental greenhouse gas emission initiatives include, among others , the december 2015 agreement (the paris agreement ) which was the outcome of the 21 st session of the conference of the parties under the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc). the paris agreement, which was signed by nearly 200 nations, including the united states and canada, entered into force in late 2016 and sets out a goal of limiting the average rise in temperatures for this century to below 2 degrees celsius. each signatory is expected to develop its own plan (referred to as a nationally determined contribution, or ndc ) for reaching that goal. in may 2017, the united states president announced that the united states would withdraw from the paris agreement. under article 28 of that agreement, the earliest such a withdrawal could be effective is november 2020. in 2015, prior to this announcement, the united states had submitted an ndc aiming to achieve, by 2025, an economy-wide target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 26-28% below its 2005 level. the ndc also aims to use best efforts to reduce emissions by 28%. the u.s. target covers all greenhouse gases that were a part of the 2014 inventory of greenhouse gas emissions and sinks. while it is unclear whether the u.s. executive administration will proceed to withdraw from the paris agreement, various legislative or regulatory initiatives relating to greenhouse gases have been adopted or considered by the u.s. congress, the epa or various states and those initiatives already adopted may be used to implement the u.s.'s ndc. additionally, more stringent laws and regulations may be enacted to accomplish the goals set out in the ndc. canada's intended ndc aims to achieve, by 2030, an economy-wide target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 30% below 2005 levels. in late 2016, the federal government announced plans for a comprehensive tax on carbon emissions, under which provinces opting out of the tax would have the option of adopting a cap-and-trade system. in the plans, the federal government also committed to implementing a federal carbon pricing backstop system that will apply in any province or territory that does not have a carbon pricing system in place by 2018. as of january 1, 2019, a carbon tax of $20/tonne now applies in canada for any emitter not covered under the federal backstop program or approved provincial program. the carbon tax will increase to $30/tonne on january 1, 2020. in addition, the province of saskatchewan, in which our canadian potash mines are located, has publicly stated that a carbon pricing system will not be implemented in the province and is currently pursuing legal action will be sought against the federal government. in december 2017, saskatchewan announced a comprehensive plan to address climate change that does not include an economy-wide price on carbon but does include a system of tariffs and credits for large emitters. the plan was reviewed and approved, in part, by the federal government in october 2018. our saskatchewan potash facilities will be subject to the saskatchewan climate change plan regarding emissions at our facilities; however, indirect costs from the carbon tax associated with electricity, natural gas consumption, and transportation are now being passed through to us. as implementation of the paris agreement proceeds, more stringent 38 table of contents laws and regulations may be enacted to accomplish the goals set out in canada's ndc, such as the clean fuel standard, which is now under development in ottawa. additionally, during the 2019 election campaign, the recently re-elected liberal party of canada announced plans for "net zero emissions" by 2050. details of the canadian government's plan to achieve the net-zero target will be released in coming months. we will also continue to monitor developments relating to the legislation, as well as the potential future effect on our operating activities, energy, raw material and transportation costs, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources. it is possible that future legislation or regulation addressing climate change, including in response to the paris agreement or any new international agreements, could adversely affect our operating activities, energy, raw material and transportation costs, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, and these effects could be material or adversely impact our competitive advantage. in addition, to the extent climate change restrictions imposed in countries where our competitors operate, such as china, india, former soviet union countries or morocco, are less stringent than in the united states or canada, our competitors could gain cost or other competitive advantages over us. future climate change could adversely affect us. the prospective impact of climate change on our operations and those of our customers and farmers remains uncertain. scientists have hypothesized that the impacts of climate change could include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperature levels and that these changes could be severe. these impacts could vary by geographic location. severe climate change could impact our costs and operating activities, the location and cost of global grain and oilseed production, and the supply and demand for grains and oilseeds. at the present time, we cannot predict the prospective impact of climate change on our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources, or whether any such effects could be material to us. some of our competitors and potential competitors have greater resources than we do, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage and adversely affect our sales and profitability. these competitors include state-owned and government-subsidized entities in other countries. we compete with a number of producers throughout the world, including state-owned and government-subsidized entities. some of these entities may have greater total resources than we do, and may be less dependent on earnings from crop nutrients sales than we are. in addition, some of these entities may have access to lower cost or government-subsidized natural gas supplies, placing us at a competitive disadvantage. furthermore, certain governments as owners of some of our competitors may be willing to accept lower prices and profitability on their products in order to support domestic employment or other political or social goals. to the extent other producers of crop nutrients enjoy competitive advantages or are willing to accept lower profit levels, the price of our products, our sales volumes and our profits may be adversely affected. we do not own a controlling equity interest in our non-consolidated companies, some of which are foreign companies, and therefore our operating results and cash flow may be materially affected by how the governing boards and majority owners operate such businesses. there may also be limitations on monetary distributions from these companies that are outside of our control. together, these factors may lower our equity earnings or cash flow from such businesses and negatively impact our results of operations. in 2013, we entered into an agreement to form mwspc, a joint venture to develop a mine and chemical complexes for an estimated $8.0 billion that produces phosphate fertilizers and other downstream products in the kingdom of saudi arabia. we have a 25% interest in the joint venture and expect our cash investment could be up to $840 million , approximately $770 million of which had been funded as of december 31, 2018. the success of mwspc will depend on, among other matters, the completion of development and full commencement of operations of production facilities in the kingdom of saudi arabia, the future success of current plans for completion of the development and for the operation of mwspc, including the availability and affordability of necessary resources and materials and access to appropriate infrastructure, and any future changes in those plans, as well as the general economic and political stability of the region. we also hold minority ownership interests in companies that are not controlled by us. we expect that the operations and results of mwspc will be, and the operations or results of some of the other companies are, significant to us, and their operations can affect our earnings. because we do not control these companies either at the board or stockholder levels and because local laws in foreign jurisdictions and contractual obligations may place restrictions on monetary distributions by these companies, we cannot ensure that these companies will operate efficiently (or, in the case of mwspc, in compliance with the terms of any funding facility for which we may provide financial guarantees), pay dividends, or generally follow the desires of our management by virtue of our board or stockholder representation. as a result, these companies may contribute 39 table of contents less than anticipated to our earnings and cash flow, negatively impacting our results of operations and liquidity. additionally, in the case of mwspc, we may be called upon to provide funds to satisfy mwspc's debt obligations to the extent we provide financial guarantees in connection with its funding facilities. strikes or other forms of work stoppage or slowdown could disrupt our business and lead to increased costs. our financial performance is dependent on a reliable and productive work force. a significant portion of our workforce, and that of the joint ventures in which we participate, is covered by collective bargaining agreements with unions. unsuccessful contract negotiations or adverse labor relations could result in strikes or slowdowns. any disruption may decrease our production and sales or impose additional costs to resolve disputes. the risk of adverse labor relations may increase as our profitability increases because labor unions' expectations and demands generally rise at those times. accidents occurring in the course of our operating activities could result in significant liabilities, interruptions or shutdowns of facilities or the need for significant safety or other expenditures. we engage in mining and industrial activities that can result in serious accidents. if our safety procedures are not effective, or if an accident occurs, we could be subject to liabilities arising out of property damage, personal injuries or death, our operations could be interrupted and we might have to shut down or abandon affected facilities. accidents could cause us to expend significant amounts to remediate safety issues or to repair damaged facilities. for example: some of our facilities are subject to potential damage from earthquakes. the excavation of mines can result in potential seismic events or can increase the likelihood or potential severity of a seismic event. the rise and fall of water levels, such as those arising from the brine inflows and our remediation activities at our esterhazy mine, can also result in or increase the likelihood or potential severity of a seismic event. our esterhazy mine and southern louisiana facilities have experienced minor seismic events from time to time. a significant seismic event at one of our facilities or mines could result in serious injuries or death, or damage to or flooding operations, or damage to adjoining properties or facilities of unrelated third parties. in an extreme scenario, seismic activity could cause us to disrupt our operations, or change our mining process or abandon the mine. our underground potash shaft mines are subject to risk from fire. in the event of a fire, if our emergency procedures are not successful, we could have significant injuries or deaths. in addition, fire at one of our underground shaft mines could halt our operations at the affected mine while we investigate the origin of the fire or for longer periods for remedial work or otherwise. our underground potash shaft mines at esterhazy and colonsay, saskatchewan, carlsbad, new mexico and taquari-vassouras, brazil are subject to risk from fire. any failure of our safety procedures in the future could result in serious injuries or death, or shutdowns, which could result in significant liabilities and/or impact on the financial performance of our potash and mosaic fertilizantes business, including a possible material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we handle significant quantities of ammonia at several of our facilities. if our safety procedures are not effective, an accident involving our ammonia operations could result in serious injuries or death, or result in the shutdown of our facilities. we produce ammonia at our faustina, louisiana phosphate concentrates plant, use ammonia in significant quantities at all of our florida and louisiana phosphates concentrates plants and store ammonia at some of our distribution facilities. for our florida phosphates concentrates plants, ammonia is received at terminals in tampa and transported by pipelines to our facilities. we also use ammonia in our brazil phosphate operations. our ammonia is generally stored and transported at high pressures or cryogenically. an accident could occur that could result in serious injuries or death, or the evacuation of areas near an accident. an accident could also result in property damage or the shutdown of our phosphates concentrates plants, the ammonia terminals, or pipelines serving those plants or our other ammonia storage and handling facilities. as a result, an accident involving ammonia could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we also use or produce other hazardous or volatile chemicals at some of our facilities. if our safety procedures are not effective, an accident involving these other hazardous or volatile chemicals could result in serious injuries or death, or result in the shutdown of our facilities. 40 table of contents we use sulfuric acid in the production of concentrated phosphates in our florida and louisiana u.s. operations and our brazil operations. some of our florida facilities produce fluorosilicic acid, which is a hazardous chemical, for resale to third parties. we also use or produce other hazardous or volatile chemicals at some of our facilities. an accident involving any of these chemicals could result in serious injuries or death, or evacuation of areas near an accident. an accident could also result in property damage or shutdown of our facilities, or cause us to expend significant amounts to remediate safety issues or to repair damaged facilities. as a result, an accident involving any of these chemicals could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we use tailings, sediments and water dams to manage residual materials generated by our brazilian mining operations. if our safety procedures are not effective, an accident involving these impoundments could result in serious injuries or death, damage to property or the environment, or result in the shutdown of our facilities, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations in brazil. mining and processing of potash and phosphate generate residual materials that must be managed both during the operation of the facility and upon facility closure. potash tailings, consisting primarily of salt and clay, are stored in surface disposal sites. phosphate clay residuals from mining in brazil are deposited in large tailing dams. they are regularly monitored to evaluate structural stability and for leaks. the failure of tailings dams and other impoundments at any of our brazilian mining operations could cause severe property and environmental damage and loss of life. as a result, we apply significant operational and financial resources and both internal and external technical resources towards operating those facilities safely. we own and maintain 11 tailings dams in brazil. in response to the new mining regulations, we conducted inspections at all of our tailings dams in brazil under the new regulatory standards. we had temporarily idled operations at four tailings dams and the three related mines at arax , tapira and catal o. we resumed full mining operations at catal o in june 2019, and at tapira and arax in september 2019. in addition, we continue to augment our existing practices in an effort to reduce the risk of catastrophic failure and expect to bring all our tailings dams to be in compliance with brazilian safety requirements. as part of our remediation efforts, and in the ordinary course of business, we plan to build and license new dams in brazil. legislation at both brazilian federal and state levels has introduced new rules regarding tailings dam safety, construction, licensing and operations. we cannot predict the full impact of these legislative or potentially related judicial actions, or future actions, or whether or how it would affect our brazilian operations or customers. any accident involving our brazilian tailings or other dams, or any shut down or idling of our related mines, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. deliberate, malicious acts, including cyber attacks and terrorism, could damage our facilities, disrupt our operations or injure employees, contractors, customers or the public and result in liability to us. intentional acts of destruction could hinder our sales or production and disrupt our supply chain. our facilities could be damaged or destroyed, reducing our operational production capacity and requiring us to repair or replace our facilities at substantial cost. employees, contractors and the public could suffer substantial physical injury for which we could be liable. governmental authorities may impose security or other requirements that could make our operations more difficult or costly. the consequences of any such actions could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by changing antitrust laws to which we are subject. increases in crop nutrient prices can increase the scrutiny to which we are subject under these laws. we are subject to antitrust and competition laws in various countries throughout the world. we cannot predict how these laws or their interpretation, administration and enforcement will change over time. changes in antitrust laws globally, or in their interpretation, administration or enforcement, may limit our existing or future operations and growth, or the operations of canpotex, which serves as an export association for our potash business in canada. increases in crop nutrient prices have in the past resulted in increased scrutiny of the crop nutrient industry under antitrust and competition laws. such price increases can increase the risk that these laws could be interpreted, administered or enforced in a manner that could affect our operating practices or impose liability on us in a manner that could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by other changes in laws resulting from increases in food and crop nutrient prices. increases in prices for, among other things, food, fuel and crop inputs (including crop nutrients) have in the past been the subject of significant discussion by various governmental bodies and officials throughout the world. in response to increases, 41 table of contents it is possible that governments in one or more of the locations in which we operate or where we or our competitors sell our products could take actions that could adversely affect us. such actions could include, among other matters, changes in governmental policies relating to agriculture and biofuels (including changes in subsidy levels), price controls, tariffs, windfall profits taxes or export or import taxes. any such actions could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our competitive position could be adversely affected if we are unable to participate in continuing industry consolidation. most of our products are readily available from a number of competitors, and price and other competition in the crop nutrient industry is intense. in addition, crop nutrient production facilities and distribution activities frequently benefit from economies of scale. as a result, particularly during pronounced cyclical troughs, the crop nutrient industry has a long history of consolidation. mosaic itself is the result of a number of industry consolidations. we expect consolidation among crop nutrient producers could continue. our competitive position could suffer to the extent we are not able to expand our own resources either through consolidations, acquisitions, joint ventures or partnerships. in the future, we may not be able to find suitable companies to combine with, assets to purchase or joint venture or partnership opportunities to pursue. even if we are able to locate desirable opportunities, we may not be able to enter into transactions on economically acceptable terms. if we do not successfully participate in continuing industry consolidation, our ability to compete successfully could be adversely affected and result in the loss of customers or an uncompetitive cost structure, which could adversely affect our sales and profitability. our strategy for managing market and interest rate risk may not be effective. our businesses are affected by fluctuations in market prices for our products, the purchase price of natural gas, ammonia and sulfur consumed in operations, freight and shipping costs, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. we periodically enter into derivatives and forward purchase contracts to mitigate some of these risks. however, our strategy may not be successful in minimizing our exposure to these fluctuations. see market risk in our management's analysis and note 16 of our notes to consolidated financial statements that is incorporated by reference in this report in part ii, item 8. a shortage or unavailability of railcars, tugs, barges and ships for carrying our products and the raw materials we use in our business could result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of production or sales and higher transportation or equipment costs. we rely heavily upon truck, rail, tug, barge and ocean freight transportation to obtain the raw materials we need and to deliver our products to our customers. in addition, the cost of transportation is an important part of the final sale price of our products. finding affordable and dependable transportation is important in obtaining our raw materials and to supply our customers. higher costs for these transportation services or an interruption or slowdown due to factors including high demand, high fuel prices, labor disputes, layoffs or other factors affecting the availability of qualified transportation workers, adverse weather or other environmental events, or changes to rail, barge or ocean freight systems, could negatively affect our ability to produce our products or deliver them to our customers, which could affect our performance and results of operations. strong demand for grain and other products and a strong world economy increase the demand for and reduce the availability of transportation, both domestically and internationally. shortages of railcars, barges and ocean transport for carrying product and increased transit time may result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of sales and higher equipment and transportation costs. in addition, during periods when the shipping industry has a shortage of ships, the substantial time needed to build new ships prevents rapid market response. delays and missed shipments due to transportation shortages, including vessels, barges, railcars and trucks, could result in customer dissatisfaction or loss of sales potential, which could negatively affect our performance and results of operations. additionally, we have agreed under our long-term cf ammonia supply agreement to purchase approximately 545,000 to 725,000 tonnes of ammonia per year during a term that may extend until december 31, 2032, at a price to be determined by a formula based on the prevailing price of u.s. natural gas. we are obligated to provide for transportation of the ammonia under the agreement, and if we fail to take the required minimum annual amount, cf may elect to require us to make payment of liquidated damages or terminate the agreement. payment of significant liquidated damages or an election by cf to terminate the agreement could adversely affect our business. if the price of natural gas rises or the market price for ammonia falls outside of the range anticipated at execution of this agreement, we may not realize a cost benefit from the natural gas-based pricing over the term of the agreement, or the cost of our ammonia under the agreement could become a competitive disadvantage. 42 table of contents a lack of customers' access to credit can adversely affect their ability to purchase our products. some of our customers require access to credit to purchase our products. a lack of available credit to customers in one or more countries, due to global or local economic conditions or for other reasons, could adversely affect demand for crop nutrients. we extend trade credit to our customers and guarantee the financing that some of our customers use to purchase our products. our results of operations may be adversely affected if these customers are unable to repay the trade credit from us or financing from their banks. increases in prices for crop nutrient, other agricultural inputs and grain may increase this risk. we extend trade credit to our customers in the united states and throughout the world, in some cases for extended periods of time. in brazil, where there are fewer third-party financing sources available to farmers, we also have several programs under which we guarantee customers' financing from financial institutions that they use to purchase our products. as our exposure to longer trade credit extended throughout the world and use of guarantees in brazil increases, we are increasingly exposed to the risk that some of our customers will not pay us or the amounts we have guaranteed. additionally, we become increasingly exposed to risk due to weather and crop growing conditions, fluctuations in commodity prices or foreign currencies, and other factors that influence the price, supply and demand for agricultural commodities. significant defaults by our customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. increases in prices for crop nutrients increase the dollar amount of our sales to customers. the larger dollar value of our customers' purchases may also lead them to request longer trade credit from us and/or increase their need for us to guarantee their financing of our products. either factor could increase the amount of our exposure to the risk that our customers may be unable to repay the trade credit from us or financing from their banks that we guarantee. in addition, increases in prices for other agricultural inputs and grain may increase the working capital requirements, indebtedness and other liabilities of our customers, increase the risk that they will default on the trade credit from us or their financing that we guarantee, and decrease the likelihood that we will be able to collect from our customers in the event of their default. provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. our restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. these provisions include the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent and the inability of our stockholders to request that our board of directors or chairman of our board call a special meeting of stockholders. we are also subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. in general, section 203 prohibits a publicly held delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years from the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the interested stockholder attained this status with the approval of the board of directors or unless the business combination was approved in a prescribed manner. a business combination includes mergers, asset sales and other transactions resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder. subject to exceptions, an interested stockholder is a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns, or within three years owned, 15% or more of the corporation's voting stock. this statute could prohibit or delay the accomplishment of mergers or other takeover or change in control attempts with respect to us and, accordingly, may discourage attempts to acquire us. these provisions apply not only when they may protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics but even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is in our best interests and those of our stockholders. our success will continue to depend on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified and motivated employees. we believe our continued success depends on the collective abilities and efforts of our employees. like many businesses, a significant number of our employees, including some of our most highly skilled employees with specialized expertise in general corporate matters, potash and phosphates operations, will be approaching retirement age throughout the next decade and beyond. in addition, we compete for a talented workforce with other businesses, particularly within the mining and chemicals industries in general and the crop nutrients industry in particular. our expansion plans are highly dependent on our ability to attract, retain and train highly qualified and motivated employees who are essential to the success of our ongoing 43 table of contents operations as well as to our expansion plans. if we were to be unsuccessful in attracting, retaining and training the employees we require, our ongoing operations and expansion plans could be materially and adversely affected. future product or technological innovation could affect our business. future product or technological innovations by third parties such as the development of seeds that require less crop nutrients, the development of substitutes for our products or developments in the application of crop nutrients, if they occur, could have the potential to adversely affect the demand for our products and our results of operations, liquidity and capital resources the success of our other strategic initiatives depends on our ability to effectively manage these initiatives, and to successfully integrate and grow acquired businesses. in addition to the acquisition, we have other significant ongoing strategic initiatives, including, principally our plans to expand the annual production capacity of our potash business and mwspc. these strategic initiatives involve capital and other expenditures of several billions of dollars over a number of years and require effective project management and, in the case of strategic acquisitions, successful integration. to the extent the processes we (or, for the mwspc, we together with our joint venture partners) put in place to manage these initiatives or integrate and grow acquired businesses are not effective, our capital expenditure and other costs may exceed our expectations or the benefits we expect from these initiatives might not be fully realized, or both, thereby resulting in adverse effects on our operating results and financial condition. we may fail to fully realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings of our long-term cf ammonia supply agreement. we use ammonia as a raw material in the production of our concentrated phosphate products. under our long-term cf ammonia supply agreements we have agreed to purchase approximately 545,000 to 725,000 tonnes of ammonia per year during a term that may extend until december 31, 2032 at a price to be determined by a formula based on the prevailing price of u.s. natural gas. the success of this agreement depends, in part, on our ability to realize cost savings from the agreement's natural gas based pricing. if the price of natural gas rises materially or the market price for ammonia falls outside of the range we currently anticipate over the term of the agreement, we may not realize a cost benefit from the agreement, or the cost of our ammonia under the agreement could be a competitive disadvantage. over the past few years, we paid considerably more for ammonia under the agreement than we would pay had we purchased it in the spot market. in addition, our ability to realize benefits and cost savings is subject to certain additional risks, including whether cf successfully performs its obligations under the agreement over the life of its commitment and our ability to take delivery of the required minimum annual amount of ammonia over the life of our commitment. cyber attacks could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse impact on our business. as a global company, we utilize and rely upon information technology systems in many aspects of our business, including internal and external communications and the management of our accounting, financial, production and supply chain functions. as we become more dependent on information technologies to conduct our operations, and as the number and sophistication of cyber attacks increase, the risks associated with cyber security increase. these risks apply to us, our employees, and to third parties on whose systems we rely for the conduct of our business. we have experienced cyber attacks but to our knowledge, we have not experienced any material breaches of our technology systems. failure to effectively anticipate, prevent, detect and recover from the increasing number and sophistication of cyber attacks could result in theft, loss or misuse of, or damage or modification of our information, and cause disruptions or delays in our business, reputational damage and third-party claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 47 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we have included a discussion about market risks under market risk in the management's analysis that is included in this report in part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . this information is incorporated herein by reference.